u2022-10-04-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 3rd day of the fall session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and Dávid Dócs will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, We will continue our work with speeches before the agenda. Antal Csárdi, Member of the LMP Group, applied for a pre-meeting address on our current affairs. You have the floor.
u2022-10-04-1	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We all took the same oath this spring. [[Bence Rétvári: You didn't want to hang up.]] We swore that we would exercise our position as Members of Parliament for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. You, fellow pro-government Members, have broken your oath. They have broken it and destroyed the pillars of our country's future successes with complete peace of mind. Yes, I am talking about education, fellow Members. Everyone knows that the key to the future's success lies in the educated heads of man. And our educated heads will come from high - quality education. And high-quality education can only be created as a result of the work of esteemed and paid teachers, teachers, teachers, teachers, and respected and paid educators. You humiliate our teachers every day. Every day, you destroy the honor of the teaching profession. Every day, you're ruining the quality of education in our country. You may think that along with the lines of machinery and assembly lines, there is enough knowledge, the standard that you intend for the next generation. You may think that the NER national capital class [[Bence Rétvári: Stone class?]] You have enough knowledge, the standard you want for the next generation. But that is not true, fellow Members. Every job, every result, every success is based on knowledge. The government's education policy is trying to destroy this work, the future leading to success; this is the last time that they have resigned to several teachers. Why? Because they had the courage to stand up, stand up for their fundamental rights, their vocations, our children, and raise their voices for the future of education, that is, for the future of the nation. They lied when they referred to EU funds, did they not say that the loss or failure to arrive at EU funds is the cause of the failure to raise wages. But that is not true, fellow Members. It was never the task of the European Union to finance public education. This has always been the responsibility and responsibility of the government in power at all times, and it will be its responsibility. And speaking of responsibility, let's see who the biggest losers of this decision are. My fellow Members, students, the next generation, are the biggest losers of this otherwise unthinkable, unjust decision. But they also lied when they claim that there is no budget to pay for teachers, because apparently, if they want it, they get everything. He got a sports day card, he got ministerial raises, he got a mobile company buyout. Let's see, I think it's very important to realize that there's a person close to NER behind each of them. Because of them, his unscrupulous service is making teachers pay slips. After 12 years of government, your performance can be described by the simple example that a few days ago you were looking for a city school cleaner and a career-starting educator, and the two recommended wages were close to the same. Knowledge is power, but there's one thing you certainly don't want to share with anyone: power. And that is why they are destroying Hungary's knowledge, its future. All I can say is that we demand it! Rehabilitation of both Kölcsey High School and all disenfranchised teachers, we demand a fair wage increase for teachers, and we demand that Hungarian public education, which already suffers from a lack of teachers, be stopped. We believe that this is the responsibility of the current Hungarian government. Since I know exactly that after this speech comes a cynical government response, my request is not to use previous governments, XIX-XX. Come with examples from the first century. You've been on the government for 12 years, 12 years! Answer me how it could have happened that even during the fall session, there was no plan to legislate a teacher's wage increase. And I will help you, fellow Members, if you want a quick solution [[The president's ringing the bell.]] , then one word must be exchanged in the law: instead of the minimum wage of 14 tie it to the current minimum wage. Thank you very much.
u2022-10-04-2	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor.
u2022-10-04-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You were talking about how important it is to raise wages for teachers, and I think all people agree with that. Some governments have managed to raise teachers' wages, and some governments have managed to cut teachers' wages. The right-wing government is the one that, for the first time after 2010, had the opportunity to produce a surplus from the Hungarian economy, from which a wage increase could be ensured, then it used this surplus to raise the wages of teachers and increased the wages of teachers by 50 percent in the years 2013 and beyond. On the other hand, you, the left, when the country was in a difficult situation, such as the coronal virus epidemic or the current global energy crisis, said that everyone had to take the belt one step further, that's what they always said, and that's why teachers were taking away a month's salary. They took away their previous 13th month's salary, and they said that from now on, nice teachers, you're making so much less. When it was a crisis, you wanted to deal with the crisis so that teachers could live worse. This is your recipe for crisis management. And not everyone was so lucky that they only reduced their salary, because you had a crisis management recipe for putting 15,000 teachers on the street, 15,000 from one day to the next, because they said that now is a difficult time, that 15,000 teachers will be dismissed from the Hungarian education system. I didn't hear you then, Congressman Csárdi. And those of you sitting in the benches on the left, I didn't hear anyone protest when 15,000 teachers were laid off, taking a month's wages, closing over 300 school sites, because that was crisis management for you. What, on the other hand, do we do when there is a Crown Virus crisis? We've decided on a teacher's wage increase of 10 percent. Everyone wants more, I agree, we want more, but during the epidemic, we managed to achieve a 10% wage increase. And what do we do when we're just out of the plague, we've already gone into an energy crisis? This year, we will increase the wages of teachers by 10 percent, by 10 percent next year, and by 10 percent the following year. That's 30 percent. Would we like to increase by 60 percent? Of course we would, everyone would. Do we want to find a cover for this? Yes, we would. Did we find the cover for this so that we could increase the wage increase so that we could put another forint next to one forint? Yeah, we found it. [[Dr. Tamás Mellar: No, no!]] , European Union Development Resources. Do you support this anywhere in Budapest or Brussels? No! What were they doing here in Budapest a week ago? The complete left did not vote for the adoption of the amendments to the law that would allow us to obtain the source that we could put one forint in addition to one forint in every 10 percent wage increase from European Union funds. [[8.10]] Do you support this anywhere? Budapest or Brussels? No. What were they doing in Budapest a week ago? The complete left did not vote for a faster adoption of the legislative amendments to the source in which we could put one forint from European Union sources in addition to every 10 percent wage increase. Do you support this at any time in Brussels? Not once. All kinds of proposals are being presented for the stated reasons so that Hungary does not get access to the source of which we, according to our own submitted plans, wanted to use hundreds of billions of forints to raise the teacher's wages. That is why we would like to do so both from domestic sources and from our own EU resources. You, on the other hand, are trying to prevent the latter, where it is ripened, both here and in Brussels. We don't see any intention of helping you anywhere. Nowhere! Obviously, there are few countries across Europe who, at this time of energy crisis, can think of wage increases no matter how much. Next January 1st, doctors' wages will increase, and teachers' wages will increase. On 1 January this year, doctors also increased their wages, and teachers' wages increased. That's what you call an economic error and a waste of money, spending the budget. That's what we heard from you yesterday, how irresponsible it was to throw money out of the budget with the wage increases on 1 January this year. So, honourable Member, could you help teachers to get a higher rate of wage increase, because I would still like to mention your criminal record that they have paid for teacher training, and the other, but indeed one of the important issues would indeed be wage increases. That is why we have provided additional resources in the education budget, and that is why we are proud of the excellent performance of Hungarian teachers, by the way. You are so patronizing Hungarian education that it is not good for anything, that it is last, but if you look at the ranking of international student Olympics and much more or even the PISA results, we have also improved in the field of text understanding, we have also improved in the field of mathematics and we have also improved in the field of science. Differences in social or, more specifically, in relation to the possible retracting effect of the family background are reduced from 26 per cent to 19.1 per cent. Education does what education has to do, reduces social differences, and thanks to God in comparing the last two measurements, we can say that they are improving. Appreciation for All Teachers [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] But for once in life, it would be good to have a national consensus that at least the source of teacher wage increases is not hindered by the Hungarian left in Brussels. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. * Interpreting in the same place: That's right!]]
u2022-10-04-4	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, To speak before the agenda, Mrs Dóra Dúró, Mi Hazank Group, spoke with the title Self-determination, security and national defence. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2022-10-04-5	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Education should be a nation strategy sector, but the government seems to be unaware of the problem in this sector. However, the Moon shows how low the pay of teachers is and how low the political and social respect or support they have received from the government in recent years is. Not only do you not perceive the extent of the problem, but you are also uncredited, because for years there has been a campaign, otherwise it is quite right not to decide in Brussels what decisions Hungarians make, for example, in the education system, but it seems that the wages of Hungarian teachers are dependent solely on the resources of Brussels. Therefore, we can say that Hungarian teachers are not worth it to you not to give them the opportunity to raise their wages to make decisions in Brussels and not to make it a tool for the political game they are playing with the European Union. It was quite amazing when Gergely Gulyás stood up at the Government Info and said that in 2026 or 27 or 28 teachers' wages would reach the level of the average salary. This also shows that they do not perceive the extent of the problem. It is not five years from now that the wages of teachers have to be settled, but as soon as possible, because we also see from the economic consequences of the closure caused by Covid that whoever leaves the teaching career or is forced to give up his work in any other sector, he will not be snapped back when the wage arrangement takes place. So the teachers we're losing now will be extremely difficult to replace later, much harder than we think today. Because, if you look at teacher training, what we see is that unfortunately, there is a teaching course for which you should write and say it nationwide. Thirty-nine, no mistake, a total of 39 people applied nationwide. We see, therefore, that huge, in-depth changes should be started, and you are waiting for the EU funds to come forward, but if this does not happen, you are not planning to pay the teachers from public sources. It is easy to point to Brussels, but scapegoating will not solve the problems of education. Nor will it be solved if teachers are denied the right to strike, or if teachers who protest, otherwise rightly, are dismissed from the system. They also managed to protect the cost reduction so much that our children will sit in 18-20-degree classrooms for months. So now we can't even say that some people are using educational institutions for warmth, because they won't have the opportunity to do so. However, they can spend billions of dollars on national consultations to ask young, guided questions while creaking and creaking, otherwise not only education, but also a number of public sectors. If you look at the social system, if you look at national security, law enforcement, public administration, everywhere, there is a shortage of numbers and underpaid people, there will be no meaningful interference on your part. Education must also be discussed in particular because it is not only a sector, not only a state subsystem, but also the sector most determining the future of our children. Here it is decided in the education system, on weekdays, that we can raise a generation who is conscious. Can we raise a generation of people who are competitive, qualified, give them the opportunity to succeed in life? Will we give them a strong sense of nationhood and experience the experience of belonging to the community? Therefore, problems in the education system cannot be taken lightly and cannot be dealt with with with cynicism. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2022-10-04-6	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári responds. You have the floor.
u2022-10-04-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Congresswoman also has the words she says, and she has the vote of her faction, which is what it is. We voted here yesterday on issues that could bring us closer to making it not only a budget but also an EU resource for educators' wage increases. There will be a budget surplus, and I will mention this, but it would not be bad if we could add another forint from EU sources to it. Then ask the fellow Member of Mr.Orbán Novák and Mr.István Szabadi why they did not vote in favour of these legislative proposals here in Parliament yesterday. They could have, they should have pressed the yes button, and we would have moved forward. If everyone here in the Hungarian Parliament had voted as your fellow Members and we had not voted in favour of these proposals, it would have been hopeless that not only the 10-10-10 percent increase in wages, but more, if any, would have been achieved, but not voted in favour. What if everyone had acted like your fellow factions? Then we would have completely cut off the possibility of that. I also believe that every opportunity, every opportunity, must be taken to truly value the work of teachers. Among all our relatives, friends and acquaintances, there are many teachers who do very, very, very sacrifice work. We are not just talking about numbers or distant things, but we are talking about our own relatives and acquaintances, who also work as teachers, and we are seeing what they do conscientiously and how they work for their students to improve their performance, how they do it outside the classroom, so that they actually, as you said, become a community, become motivated, learn more and more. What did we start this cycle with ourselves, Madam honourable Member? By asking the teachers what they think is important. Obviously, it was clear that they too thought it was important to raise wages, and so did we. There has not been a period in Hungary where, based on the opinion of 33 000 teachers, the government will try to implement various legislative amendments or others in this cycle. So this could be a common beginning, so let's create consensus points. Obviously, it's not an infinite budget, but from what we have, let's try to move forward together. You said there was no extra funding in the budget for wage increases and education. It is true that you did not support it, that is without doubt, because the left, the opposition, you did not support this proposal, but there is a surplus of HUF 86 billion in the coming year, of which, of which the vast majority, we are obviously going to make wage increases in the first place. [[8.20]] And it is also a slip, distortion, or another way to put it, what was on your part, that exactly the schools are the institutions that we are trying to heat to at least 18-20 degrees in order for the children to be safe there, honourable Member. When everyone in Europe is worried, we said that schools can't do things that children can't go into schools, what many people have said, to have online education right away, but to have presence education, to ensure that there is a very large surplus that will obviously be followed by hospitals and residential social institutions, so that children are safe. We know their everyday life is safe in every way within the school. What you said about the national consultation is that it is a baby question, well, honourable Member, every person asks himself these questions every day about the overhead, as well as the subject of the national consultation, how and when this will finally end. It is inconceivable that in one year the price of electricity will increase by five times on the world market and the price of gas will increase by six times on the world market. Everyone's talking about it, honourable Member. Calling this a baby question is about the quality I don't want to violate, although it may be half successful by comparing it to András Fekete-Győr, as he said about the quality of the schools, about the quality of their quality. With a hint of hand from within the Körút that the quality of Hungarian schools is a mess; ah, the issue of reduction of overhead costs, price increases and sanctions is the issue of child abuse. Madam Member, that is what people are interested in, and that is what we have to deal with. And obviously, many also care about what will happen in the school of the future. Therefore, you have seen the past few years, not about the closure of schools, as before 2010, but about the re-opening of some of them, and we have renovated a lot of schools across the country, and we have also built new schools; because that is what we believe in, the modernisation of schools. If you look at the textbooks, you don't recognize them, there's so much difference between the textbooks of our own childhood and the current textbooks. After all, the Smart Portal has 200,000 to 300,000 visits a day. 60,000 to 70,000 people open smart textbooks, digital teaching materials on the National Public Education Portal, with over 1 million users operating the KRÉTA system from day to day. These were all huge advances. We are not going in the direction of vast quality, as you and your fellow Members say, but precisely towards quality. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] For quality, of course, we know we need a raise. That's what we're working on. We're sorry you didn't help us with your vote yesterday. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-04-8	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Tamás Mellar, Member of the Dialogue Group, asked for a pre-meeting address on current affairs. You have the floor.
u2022-10-04-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I always enjoy listening to the Prime Minister's economic discussions, especially with regard to his novel theoretical context. I was very impressed by the doctrine that stated that the greater inflation in a country is, the closer it lies to the country that is at war. I was truly sorry that the facts did not support this epochal recognition. But let's not be sad, because we have another doctrine for our Prime Minister, so let's deal with it. This new doctrine states that the exchange rate of the forint deteriorates when and when the euro weakens compared to the dollar. According to Mr Orbán, therefore, the dollar's price rose to historical heights above HUF 430. However, I fear that once again the Prime Minister has no luck with the facts of economic history. First of all, it is worth seeing that the exchange rate of the forint against the dollar and the euro has been steadily weakening since 2010, and it needs to be given more and more. While in August 2010 I had to give HUF 277 for a euro and HUF 210 for a dollar, I can't say exactly today because it costs HUF 425 per minute and HUF 430 for a dollar. So there's something wrong here. Then, of course, it would be worth considering whether, if this relationship had any relevance, why the Polish złoty, the Czech crown or the Romanian lei would not obey this story, since there has not been a continuous weakening there for 12 years, but these exchange rates were broadly and more or less stable, although obviously there was some temporary swing. In fact, however, there are three reasons for the low flow of the forint. The first and perhaps the most important is that the Hungarian economy has very low productivity and very weak international competitiveness. The reason why the forint must be constantly and clearly devalued is that our external trade balance should not be overturned. Another very important factor is that the chronically overheated domestic economy, where a significant part of the surplus demand turned towards imports, has also led to imbalances, since this increased import could not be offset by export, and therefore, obviously, the weakening of the forint has arisen. The third factor is that, unlike in recent years, EU funds are not coming regularly. The EU resource has supported the forint and has been able to secure a sufficient amount of foreign reserves, so that the MNB has been able to protect the exchange rate. Now, however, since this additional resource is not available, this support is also missing. On top of that, the Orbán Government has made another wrong decision, namely that companies can make their tax payments in foreign currency, in dollars or in euro. Every beginner economist knows that one of the main reasons for adopting the official currency, if you will, is that it is compulsory to pay taxes in it. But if you don't have to pay taxes in that, why do you want to keep the forint? Obviously, savings will thus become more and more effective in fleeing into dollars and euros, and there will be a double exchange rate system in Hungary, which is not foreign to developing countries, and under the Gresham Act, bad money, in this case the forint will push out good money, dollar and euro, which will increase the rate of circulation of money and increase inflation. This will inevitably lead to the need for a currency reform. I ask Mr Secretary of State that it would not be easier to prevent this, and now to announce that we want to join the euro area as soon as possible and try to establish the conditions for this as soon as possible. Of course, I know that this is a rhetorical question, and I can envelop what the Secretary of State will say, but I secretly hope that he may surprise me. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2022-10-04-10	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, Deputy Minister, wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2022-10-04-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, The other day, one of the opposition representatives said: the opposition is in a helpless and helpless state. [[Bence Rétvári: Who was it?]] Who was that? [[Dr. Tamás Mellar: Me.]] Then you said it, didn't you? Do you admit it? [[Dr. Tamás Mellar: I told you this morning.]] I don't want to say that you're an opposition representative, is that what you're saying? But I must admit that this speech would have been more appropriate, let's say, if you had told the students at CEU University than at the National Assembly. In our view, there are much simpler reasons for the economic processes that exist in the whole world, in Europe and, unfortunately, in Hungary as well. One of the reasons you won't agree, of course, is the war. After all, since February of this year, the neighboring country has been at war. Before that, of course, there were trends, but the war gave a significant boost. Let's see what you, the opposition that is now clueless and helpless, have said about the war. He said that the war should be extended, and, if necessary, Hungarian soldiers will be involved in this war. So what side were you on? They were on the side of the war. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: That's not true!]] [[8.30]] Let's see what the consequences of the war have been, how the European Union has reacted to this. The European Union has said that sanctions should be imposed against the aggression, Russia. What did you say about the penalty? The penalty was said to be a great idea, to stop Russia [[Ágnes Kunhalmi and Tamás Mellar intervene. The president's ringing the bell.]] The sanctions must be introduced. What did the Prime Minister of Hungary say? The fact that this is not good will lead to the penalty being bad for Europe as a whole, but not for Russia. What position did you take here, too? It means that the penalty will solve the war. What happened to the penalty? Energy crisis. Energy crisis, increased to multiple gas, seven times or even higher, and increased to multiple electricity. Of course, you are protecting the Hungarian population from the reduction of the rent, which now protects the population until the average consumption, before protecting the Hungarian population in the full bill of rent, what do you say? The fact that there is no need for it, leading politicians, the opposition that you now say is clueless and helpless, they said that there is no need to reduce the rent, there is no need to protect Hungarian people. The Hungarian government's position is that, as long as the Hungarian budget is able to finance it, there is a need for a reduction in rent, and this protects every Hungarian consumer family and citizen. You have forgotten the EU funds, the lack of agreement. You can see that we passed one of the laws before the Parliament yesterday, the majority of the Hungarian government and the Hungarian Parliament are doing everything in their power to reach an agreement with the European Union so that Hungary can obtain the European Union funds that otherwise belong to Hungary. What do you say, what do your representatives from outside the European Union say? They will do everything in their power to ensure that Hungary does not receive this source. Don't get it, because they see that then the Hungarian government will not be able to fulfill its commitments, that it may fail, and then the helpless and helpless opposition will follow. Honourable Congressman, If you add up these simple, everyday facts, you can figure out why you have, for example, [[The president's ringing the bell.]] why the exchange rate of the forint changes so negatively. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-10-04-12	I thank the Deputy Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mr Ander Balázs, the Jobbik Group, asked to speak with the title of the bomb. You have the floor.
u2022-10-04-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, the bomb is ticking in the field of education, and you, in the pro-government benches, have not done much to defuse and avoid disaster. The pension bomb is ticking, as three times as many teachers retire today as many people start this wonderful profession. The social bomb is ticking, because if you look at how, say, the salary of a career-starting educator in Budapest doesn't cover an average rent without rent, then you have to see that there is also a reason for a terrible departure. Indeed, we here, as the conservative right-wing party responsible for Jobbik, say that Széchenyi was right when he said that the power of a nation lies in a multitude of educated heads of people. Do you recognize this truth? We don't think so. Albert Szent-Györgyi once said that the future will be like today's school. Let's see what today's school looks like. He has grown old, 50 percent of teachers are over 50 years old, and the proportion of colleagues under 30 is now less than 6 percent, perhaps not by accident. By "suspense," I mean your last 12 years. Then the Hungarian teaching society became poorer, as we are indeed a host among the OECD states. If we want to not only look at absolute numbers but also somehow compare them to, say, the average wage of a graduate, then our colleagues are not dreaming of reaching the Latvian level, which is 140 percent of the average wage of a graduate in the case of teachers, but perhaps even the German or Polish example is a kind of dream for them; they would be satisfied if they were to finally link that certain projection fund to the minimum wage of 101 500 forints in 2014, but to the minimum wage at all times. What's today's school like? He certainly kept me in fear; he kept me in fear, for it was evident what had happened to the teachers who opened their mouths at Kölcsey High School. Not so long ago, Secretary of State, in a toast to your current boss, Minister Kasler, he wrote to teachers: a good teacher is not just a teacher, but an example who shows our children how to stand up for themselves and fight for others. When these teachers show great patience, but they stand up for themselves, not just for themselves, but for the future of the country, for this area of national strategic importance, what is the answer? Mr. Secretary, what did your new boss, Sándor Pintér, directing the Ministry of Interior and thus education, answer? Well, it was the iron fist that struck and built a one-party overpowering semi-dictatorship that was actually in Central Asia. [[Bence Rétvári: Wow!]] they gave me an answer. They fired these teachers. I don't know what's next. They'll send you the number of P. Celli to shut the fuck up! What's the matter with you? Is this the next toast? [[Eszter Vitalos: Come on! Bence Rétvári: We are in Parliament, Congressman. We're in Parliament!]] 'Cause if we do this, Mr. Secretary, that's what's gonna happen in that toast. The entire process of protesting these mere teachers has been fired has been unworthy. You can say it wasn't fair, it was illegal, so to speak, this strike. You neutered the domestic strike law, a true neoliberal or even a semi-dictatorial state in Central Asia. [[Csaba Dömötör: Which is it now?]] So there's no need to wonder if that's the way teachers perform. This was the answer to the pressing questions, the problems that really affect the nation's future, with which these teachers stood up and dared to speak. The chemistry teacher was also fired, even though twenty-one people start their chemistry teacher training in Hungary on an annual basis. That's your answer to the lack of a teacher. Well, let's just say there's no education without a teacher, and there's no future without education. That is why, here in Jobbik, once again, in the right-wing, responsible conservative-minded Jobbik, we say that we need a new model in Klebelsberg; a new model in Klebelsberg, and Klebelsberg, after a disaster in Trianon, pointed to right-wing national people, not Paris and Versailles, as you are doing now in Brussels, but, by creating national resources, he has really turned the domestic education sector into a success sector, even in the midst of the shocks of the 20s and 30s. You should do the same. Thank you.
u2022-10-04-14	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2022-10-04-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Congratulations on your mandate [[Ander Balázs: Thank you.]] That you're back in Parliament. I don't know if your comment helped or didn't help, but who has spoken now, in the last few minutes, honourable Member. You were told by the current president of your party, Márton Gyöngyösi, that you would quit Jobbik, that your full-time chief of staff would quit Jobbik if Ander Balázs became the new president of Jobbik. In fact, he even insulted you personally that all he had to do was change his head. That's what he said about you. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: What does that have to do with anything?]] Then you stood behind him and withdrew from the Presidency to obtain a mandate as a representative. So you helped the party president who, sitting in front of you, was talking about listing Jewish politicians. You are responsible for your mandate by making a party president who would list our fellow Jewish Members here in Parliament and then sit in... [[Ander Balázs: Secretary of State, don't lie, it's the Presidency and the party membership. The president's ringing the bell.]] You can yell at me about a selection, a lot of things, Mr. Congressman, so that's a sensitive point for you. [[Ander Balázs: Lying is!]] But he helped Márton Gyöngyösi to take this position, and somehow he got one of his fellow Members to resign, and in your favor, who withdrew from the presidential election for his benefit, and in return you could sit here, in one of the comfortable parliamentary seats. [[8.40]] This is, therefore, the moral platform that you spoke to us about this morning, which is why you have your mandate, honourable Member, in the party where lice slides and a lot of other things have happened in the past. [[Ander Balázs: You had yachting.]] And yet he put that Márton Gyöngyösi in the chair of the party, who said a few years ago about the European Union: here is the last chance for the country to leave the Union that now openly undertakes to abolish national sovereignty. He said that a few years ago, and now he's saying the opposite, just to talk about your credibility. [[Ander Balázs: Talk about teachers' wages!]] So you say a lot of things here, but you can do the opposite. And now your party president is talking about the need for this sanction to be limited, more sanctions. In fact, he says such things, and I quote them literally: "This is the right thing to do, so sanctions must be stepped up. And then he also said that if we are pursuing a sanctions policy against Russia, which is very right, it could have a consequence, as an opportunity, that there will be a decline on the supply side in terms of energy. This is, right, the 6-7 times increase, well, you have to count on that, it happens. You know, if it weren't for a 6-7-fold increase in price, there wouldn't be a solid decline, as your party president said, who you put in this chair after all, then the budget might not only be a surplus of HUF 86 billion, but a multiple of that, because what we're not paying for now, we'd be paying for teachers' wages. With much greater joy, with a much better heart, we would not be expanding the energy profit of all foreign corporations, but paying the wages of Hungarian teachers. And we've been on this road for the past few years, because luckily, we've managed to get the doctors, nurses, social workers, cultural workers, law enforcement workers, military personnel, everyone to raise their wages, there's gun money, there's a family tax refund, there's a lot of things. We finally started on this road until the sanctions came in. And your party president is one of the loudest supporters of sanctions because he was one of the loudest anti-EUs in the past, and he's obviously now compensating from one extreme to the other. Jobbik didn't fall from one side of the horse to the other, but from one side of the herd to the other, because there are so many changes in your policy. I'm telling you this because you might say those words here, but then you made a deal in an instant with those who, by the way, dismissed 15,000 teachers, reduced the pay for teachers, paid for teacher training, even sold the National Book Publisher. [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] I don't want to go into detail, even Agnes Kunhalmi is going to ask for the floor. So you've made a deal with these congressmen in an instant. [[Ander Balázs: Meanwhile, someone seems to have changed the electoral law, for example. Isn't that right, Mr. Secretary? Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] And with that Black-Győr András who said that we have too many schools, which means that schools should be closed. [[Interviews from Jobbik and MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] So one minute you're talking about honoring teachers, and then you're conspiring with those who say otherwise. However, Mr President, if I look at the number of people admitted to state education, I hope you do not argue with them, in 2010, the number of state scholarships was 5422 and last time you looked at 6729, and if you look at the number of people with active teaching status in public schools, this has increased by 4 thousand since the end of August. That doesn't mean we don't have any work to do here. We have a lot of work to do, but what you're saying is just as extreme as your party, falling from one extreme to another. Just calm down a little bit. Teachers should not be used for their political purposes, but should be helped by, for example, their votes. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] For example, this week and last week, to vote for the extra resources that might have paid the teachers. The left didn't do that. Thank you very much. [[Eszter Vitalos: That's right! Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-10-04-16	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Signing up for a pre-meeting speech [[Agnes Kunhalmi stands up.]] Mr Lajos Löcsei, Momentum Group: on current affairs. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Oh! Bence Rétvári: I've been waiting for you. Defiance.]]
u2022-10-04-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you a few questions, please, and then you can answer the questions with a nod to your head. [[Bence Rétvári: We will respond.]] Is it true that before the elections, they promised to protect Hungarian families and to protect the reduction of the rent? That's right, that's what happened. Is it true that three months after the election, you guys raised rent? Right. [[Eszter Debate: That's not true!]] Nod, fellow Members, because that is the case. The price of gas was increased by seven times, the price of electricity being doubled, not to mention the price of system usage increased to three times the price. And, unfortunately, we are now at the point that, thanks to your failed economic policy, your campaign of lying, by making people believe that we can keep the rent cut, by hitting the voters in the face one day and dumping the seven-time gas price, the two-time electricity price, the 40-50 percent, and sometimes a 100 percent increase in the food price. Colleagues, what were you thinking? ! One day after another, hundreds of thousands of families now have to think about heating or eating in the winter. And what does your caring government give these families? It's price-stop chicken butt-back, price-stop oil, flour, sugar on the shelves of the shops. The day before yesterday, my wife and I wanted to buy, among other things, food oil in one of the major supermarket chains. Do you think it worked? I'm told by the store clerk that there isn't, and that only in the morning, when you open, you can put out a certain quantity, and then you can't replace it during the day. What were you thinking, fellow Members? ! Ladies and gentlemen, They introduce price-stop firewood and provide 10 cubic meters for each family. That sounds very nice and nice, and you've decided that from behind the desks in Budapest. And what does it look like in reality, physically? Today, if a family indicates their needs, it may be available to you in about a month and a half or two. But of course, pay a sum, hire a labour force for loading and unloading, hire a suitable means of transport, and when the firewood is in your yard, then the logs of one and a half meters are rolled up and then slapped, and by the time the 10 cubic metres of firewood is in the shed, it will cost about 400 to 500 thousand forints for an average family and they can heat with the water tree. What were you thinking, fellow Members? ! I am aware that the country is not in an easy position. And you can point the finger at everyone here: Soros, Brussels, migrant, the new enemy, the sanctions. But if I just think that 70 billion forints for a hunting exhibition, 300 billion forints for useless respirators, 20 billion forints for cross-border football, tens of billions for national consultations, it could be classified to the extreme, fellow Members, and when we talk about these squandered money, believe me, the knife will open in the pocket of the Hungarian man. How many families would you be able to help with this money right now? How many families can change their old hatches, isolate their apartments, upgrade heating! If these funds are actually spent on families and prepared for the long-awaited energy crisis, then Hungarian families should not be thinking about heating or eating in winter. Instead of honestly standing up to the Hungarian voters and admitting their mistakes, you tended to deflect them and were busy creating counties and ispains, and to put 350 billion forints of public money into Vodafone. What were you thinking, fellow Members? ! But even so, they still have the opportunity to improve by accepting the Momentum Movement regime package [[Bence Rétvári: Oops! Eszter Defiant laughs.]] And if you have a little humanity, empathy, then you will also accept the proposal that I have tabled to double the amount of electricity reduced on a need-based basis in households where there is no gas connection or district heating, because this would be the real help for Hungarian families in a difficult time. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the opposition benches.]]
u2022-10-04-18	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2022-10-04-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, you raised important questions, and when you say that the government has done nothing, that is simply not true, you probably know very well. Let's start with a decision on different cross-stops, including a food price stop. When, by the way, we voted in this House in recent years to reduce the VAT on basic foods, certain basic foods, then the Members to whom you have just joined have not voted and have not supported it. The government also decided on a petrol stop, and the vast majority of left-wing representatives did not support this. The government also decided to hitchhike. From the left, the country received not a interest rate stop, not the help of those in trouble, but the introduction of foreign currency loans into the neck of Hungarian families. We maintain the family support system in this diversity in the current circumstances, and even our aim is to expand it. [[8.50]] There is also a home renovation programme aimed at countering rising overhead bills, rising overhead bills across Europe by investing in energy efficiency or by investing in solar cells. On the basis of your speech, to tell you the truth, I was not very sure whether you would support such measures or not. I couldn't decide if her problem was that we introduced them, or her problem was that we decided on them, but we should do better. I understand your dilemma, but one thing you should know is that the left you joined did not support these measures. Your Prime Minister candidate may know that once he joined them, he said that it is not an objective to stop world prices at the border. If you look at a new shadow government standing up, you will also see that the members of the shadow government responsible for the relevant areas, such as the Minister of the Shadow Economy, say that the petrol stop should be driven out. So please, if you consider these aspects important, first convince your own party and fellow Members that these decisions are correct. Then let's talk about the background. Now he spoke about problems in Hungary in his speech, but the fact is that all European countries are facing major economic problems in these months, and the problem is not only that there is a war, but also that the Brussels decision-makers have unfortunately given bad answers to this war. One important factor is that they don't want peace, they want to drag us into the conflict. As the President of the European Commission has said, there is no need for reconciliation. If we get closer to the conflict, then the economic troubles will only multiply. It is just as worrying that they do not look at how the European economy can be freed from the burden of war, on the contrary, they probably make decisions that hurt us the most under external pressure. What else would explain, honourable Member, that, contrary to the position taken in March, sanctions were extended to the energy sector by a decision in June? This is the main cause of trouble. Gas prices are fading, and they're also trying to extend the sanctions, so they're pulling electricity prices with them, and I could tell you that. There was an area of sanctions where Europe is weak and Russia is strong. The consequences are known. Some say, by the way, that these sanctions work. Many of your allies say that these sanctions work. That's what Péter Márki-Zay says in a debate, that's what Márton Gyöngyösi says. If I were cynical, I could also say that they work, just not where they should be, because they were meant to be an enforcement tool, but in fact, the European economy is being maimed. The war was not caused by us, honourable Member, but the consequences are borne by us, as are the consequences of sanctions. If this goes on, the European economy will be ruined. It is therefore not only a Hungarian interest, but also a pan-European interest, that Brussels reviews this policy. If you review it, you will be able to make progress in the areas you have mentioned. I could also say that we may agree that the economy has not been growing for 12 years, and that millions of Hungarians have not worked for years to sacrifice our achievements because of irresponsible decisions. We regret the fact that we cannot count on the opposition in this struggle. How could we expect if we knew that in recent months they had received a billion-dollar amount of financial aid from abroad? Thus, there is a suspicion that it is not in the interests of the country, but in the interests of those who pay their bills. Scandalous, but not surprising. So, if you want to get a package of regimes approved, I suggest you join the government's fight against sanctions. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-10-04-20	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Member Ms Ágnes Kunhalmi, MSZP Group, also spoke before the agenda: on current issues. You have the floor.
u2022-10-04-21	Mr. President. Before Mr Rétvári responds, because we are in a very good dialogue, stop being personal with the other Members. Really, Mr. Völner, your former representative, told me about the EMMI that it's a dung heap where nothing can be done.
u2022-10-04-22	You have the floor, Congresswoman. Here you go.
u2022-10-04-23	Thank you, I'm telling you, I'm gonna define you as a dung heap, or I'm gonna make that decision. [[Bence Rétvári: Good thing it's not personal!]] What kind of professional response do you have? Let's not make fun of each other. You really shouldn't go down to that level, Congressman. But there are more important matters in this country than the dung heap of EMMI and Pál Völner. Teachers have long demanded a radical increase in their wages, a reduction in their administrative burden and a restoration of their autonomy. Their legitimate, justified dissatisfaction will lead to further protests this week. At the beginning of the summer, the government emptied the rights of teachers to strike, created anti-law and anti-international legislation. You, the Fidesz power, have argued that strikes are in violation of the interests of students and parents, essentially of society as a whole. This statement is lying, false and untenable, because good and high-quality education, for which they are on strike today, can never harm the interests of students, the good and high-quality education for which they strike, is essentially a national matter and the general interest of society. The government which refers to the damage caused by the strike essentially denies the strike as a fundamental employee's right. The government also acknowledges that the need for teachers to raise wages is justified, but the radical and necessary increase is somehow not coming. The argument I have heard from Mr Rétvári is unacceptable, the fidesz argument that educators' wage increases should be financed from EU funds, as is the opposition's obstacle to their payment. Paying the salaries of teachers and other civil servants in each country is the responsibility and obligation of national governments, but I say otherwise, in case they understand: education is a national matter, part of the national sovereignty that Fidesz is constantly expressing. How is that, Mr. Secretary of State and Honourable Government? Are they afraid of Brussels for the sovereignty of the country while they're begging in Brussels for teachers' wages? What impertinent hypocrisy is this? Speaking of which, before I heard the rejoinder, the MSZP abstained from voting on legislative proposals based on agreements with the EU, not by accident to indicate that we are interested in obtaining funds, we are cheering for the money to come, but we could not vote in favour, as the Prime Minister said last time on Radio Kossuth that I would reject any cooperation with the opposition, even on this issue. Now, from here on out, I think it's your responsibility to draw every eurocent, to waste every eurocent on your conscience. Besides, there's money in the country, but it's not going where it's supposed to go. It is also unacceptable that the government has fired teachers who have participated in civil disobedience because it does not recognise it as a legally acceptable objection. The government seems to be doing everything in its power to justify the European Parliament's resolution that Hungary is not a full democracy. I would not be in such a hurry to justify this, but my opinion is that by intimidating, threatening and finally removing teachers in this way, we see a state of authoritarian growth, where, unfortunately, by firing each teacher, you are moving towards an open dictatorship. Teachers are not paid revolutionaries who don't want to teach, they didn't deceive the government, they were deceived by the government, they received an offer from the government with the so-called teacher's career model, and the government broke it, withdrew it, cheated them. The glorified teacher's career model was based on the fact that the projection fund was linked to the minimum wage at all times, and then the government withdrew it a year and a half later. So it wasn't the teachers, it was the Fidesz who slapped the entire teacher society in the face. But it's not just about money, I agree with Mr Pintér. Teachers tell us, students tell us, money is necessary, but it is not a sufficient condition. To restore rights, restore the strike law, you don't need money, you don't need money for the unteachable and unteachable National Basics. There is no need for money to reduce congestion and administrative burden, and there is no need for money to return autonomy. The point of civil disobedience in a civil democracy must be clear that those involved in it are opposed to the legislation, as Viktor Orbán did in 2007 in Kossuth Square. Then he could, because he was a democracy in this country. Today, Viktor Orbán could not live with the civil disobedience he had done in 2007. There's a reason the Prime Minister knows what to stop. Let the teachers keep fighting, because there's someone to fight for, there's a reason to fight for a better country. Thank you. [[Applause from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2022-10-04-24	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári responds. You have the floor.
u2022-10-04-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, To say between the walls of this House that in 2006 there was democracy in Hungary, when there was rubber bullets, honourable Member, and swordswords, and tear gas and hedge here in Kossuth Square, and for you, this is democracy, and there was a real democracy when these conditions were in Budapest, and it is able to say here, within the walls of Parliament, that it is a model example of democracy, and it specifically refers not only to the time, but also to the time, the autumn of the swordsman, the autumn of the rubber bullet. [[9.00]] Why don't you go to the people who have been scratched there and have their eyes blown out and tell them that there was democracy in Hungary at the time? That was an extremely strong sentence, honourable Member. I feel that you've had a tactic for a very long time, but fortunately, this tactic hasn't worked for a while, that the worse the country, the better the left, that's what you think, and that's what you're doing, you're voting for. You have just taught me that the argument that we would like to raise teachers' wages from EU sources is unacceptable, 10-10-10 percent from domestic sources, so we will have 30 percent, but we would like to add a HUF from development sources in Brussels to each Hungarian forint. He said that this argument was unacceptable. Let me quote Ágnes Kunhalmi Ágnes to Ágnes Kunhalmi, if he will allow:, We should be able to draw EU funds, and this could be one of Hungary's significant sources of income. I don't know which Agnes Kunhalmi should agree with, and which shouldn't. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: This can do it!]] But one minute you're telling us not to think about it, the next minute you're demanding that we do this, because that would be a significant source. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: What is the contradiction?]] And now you're telling us not to use this to pay a teacher's salary raise. But at a time like this, when your words can't tell you what you want and what you're against. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: There is no contradiction!]] Well, you've always got a steady vote, and your vote, as you've been trying to explain here in the last few minutes, wasn't the vote in favour, it was the abstention. So if everyone had been here on this bill, we wouldn't be one step closer to providing teachers with additional wage increases from EU funds over three times 10 percent, honourable Member. So he admitted that you were actually blocking it, just trying to explain why you're blocking it, but there's only one reason for that, is that you think that the worse the country is, the better the left. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Just how much they respect educators: you, the Minister of Education of your shadow government, have chosen a man who is at the meetings of the shadow government, who has been convicted of a group, armed and private invasion. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: I don't have a shadow government, but I'll do it!]] So you would trust such a person with the issue of Hungarian education in the shadow government, the Hungarian left, who committed a group, armed... [[Agnes Kunhalmi: What are you talking about?]] But not only was it a misdemeanor, but he was convicted of a group and armed crime, who, of course, insulted Hungarians across the border that it was a despicable, spineless and unethical thing to support Hungarians beyond the borders. [[Zoltán Vajda intervenes.]] ; also attacked Eastern vaccines and official prices. This is your vision, your role model in the field of education. Payment: without a doubt, we agree, teachers pay lower than they deserve, and teachers' salaries must also be increased. We have raised this, we have raised it again this year, and we will continue to increase it in the future. It's just, you know, the difference is that you guys showed us how to cut the teacher's salary by 8 percent, and as far as the budget goes, we've been trying to raise it. A teacher with a university degree is now 141 percent higher than when you were in government in 2010, a teacher with 20 years of university education. 132 percent higher in grade, 156 percent higher than a college-educated intern, a college-educated educator, 20 years old. and 142 percent higher than grade. Obviously, we'd like these to be higher. However, you have not shown, honourable Member, how to increase to a greater extent, but you have shown yourself as the only one in post-regime history, how to reduce teacher wages. Don't let educators teach us how and how to raise teachers' wages, because we could, we could, we could, we could, we could raise them. I'm asking you and left-wing politicians not to try to get involved politically in this event. You don't have a crowd coming to your meetings, so you go where the crowd is, but I don't think it's gonna be good for anyone, for you or for the teachers. We negotiate with them, we negotiate with the Faculty of Pedagogism, as well as trade unions, because they want to raise their wages. You can help us here with your vote. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We're allies with the teachers because we've shown them how to raise a teacher's wage. You're not their allies, you're hoping for political gain, because you're going there with them after they've reduced the teacher's wages with your own vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks. Eszter Vitályos: Schools have been closed!]]
u2022-10-04-26	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mr Dávid Ferenc, MEP DK Group, asked for a speech entitled News Affairs. You have the floor.
u2022-10-04-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, According to a Facebook post last week, Vodafone is inconspicuously, and cannot complain about the subscription fee, because the phone is not being answered, the email bounces back, not only are they not willing to handle anything at the customer service, but they are not even looking at the complaint, and they are also treating customers in a humiliating manner. I can confirm that with my personal experience, by the way. The entry concludes that it is completely unnecessary to spend HUF 715 billion on the nationalization of the company, as it already operates as state-owned companies. The irony aside, let's face it. The payment of the 13th month pension consumed HUF 350 billion, less than half of the amount for the transaction. And according to the government, the remuneration of teachers would require some HUF 400 billion. This HUF 715 billion of public money could therefore be used by a responsible government for sensible things; of course, you will not, because next year there will be no choice, so it would obviously be unnecessary to put new honey on the strings of pensioners. András Bencsik, one of the mouthpieces of Fidesz, told his 24 cameras that Vodafone was more important than the wages of teachers. Dear House, Incredibly irresponsible is this hundreds of billion-dollar transaction, which could only increase the shortest 90-day payout period in Europe by doubling the interest rate, but the amount could be used to release HUF 240 billion in student loans and give a quarter million in one-off support to two million needy families to cover the increased energy costs. Of course, I could continue the line for a long time, but it would be unnecessary, since, from the government's point of view, it is not the idea, but the intention to spend money for public benefit. We cannot go without saying that you, in the middle of a livelihood crisis, are irresponsiblely scattering the hundreds of billions, which could be used rationally. Our objective is to prevent this distribution of money by all available legal means, although we are aware that these instruments are quite limited. We draw the attention of the Hungarian and foreign public to the maladministration of this transaction, and point out the potential restrictive effect of competition and the obvious suspicion of illegal state aid before the competent Hungarian and EU authorities, although we cannot really expect substantial intervention due to the direct government dependency of the former. As a result of the transaction, the State will participate in the competition for domestic telecommunications in a double capacity: as one of the players in the competition and as its rule-makers. It's like the referee of a football game is one of the team's players. Although, as I said at the beginning, the case is really not humorous, I would like to draw your attention to one more absurd aspect. Minister Gulyás stated that he was confident that investing in Vodafone would result in profits, which could be the source of an increase in teacher's wages. Well, the company's net debt was HUF 263 billion, EUR 1.3 billion in 2020 and EUR 7.4 billion in 2021. I have encountered few cases in my career where a state-specific company would have recovered from previous loss-making operations through a significant increase in State influence and would have started to generate significant profits. So if I understand Gulyás Gergely correctly, the government found the source of the teacher's wages in Vodafone's loss. Of course, we learned from former Fidesz MEP József Dancsó that negative growth is also an increase. In the same way, you may think that the negative result is a profit, but in this case, the wage increase of teachers financed by it will also be negative, which is commonly called a wage reduction. Well, to quote Viktor Orbán, what his government has done. Thank you for your patience. [[It's a rare round of applause in opposition lines.]]
u2022-10-04-28	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. You have the floor. [[9.10]]
u2022-10-04-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, At the same time, a government must pursue several goals and take into account the need to raise wages at the same time, protect pensions, keep taxes as low as possible, keep jobs and increase public wealth. As I understand it, you'd be prosecuting the country for that. [[Bence Rétvári: That's right! That's why!]] because a decision has been made to expand the size of Hungarian state ownership in a sector where only foreign companies have so far kicked the ball, if I understand correctly what you're saying. One thing occurred to me: the same report was made when the government decided to buy back foreign-owned gas storage facilities; the same report was made. [[Miklós Soltész: That's right!]] If we were to pursue this policy, then there would be no Hungarian-owned gas storage facilities in Hungary, we would not be able to say that we are at the forefront of the EU's gas storage capacity. If it had been up to you, if it had been up to you now, there wouldn't have been any leftovers of the Hungarian industry. That's your policy. [[More of the ruling parties: That's right!]] By announcing their shadow government, they help clarity, because everyone can clearly see these kinds of differences between government policy and your policy. If we understand you correctly, you'd be the shadow economic minister. [[Defiance in the pro-government ranks.]] I don't know if there's a shadow interpellation, unfortunately I don't, but I have a few questions. So, Mr. Shadow Minister. We know you didn't support the minimum wage increase, you said it couldn't be done. But why not? Should we be on the same level as when we started governing at 74 thousand forints? We also know that you called this year's government decisions a wasted measure, such as the reimbursement, the law enforcement gun money. Have you ever told law enforcement that you don't want to admit your job with such extra benefits? We also know that you consider it a foolish and damaging thing, that the government does not support the global minimum tax, the clear consequence of which would be a tax increase, and that Hungary would lose its competitive advantage in the field of taxation. Is that what you want? You mentioned energy prices, but I beg you, Mr. Shadow Minister, you think it's unnecessary to give energy at a reduced price for half a million income, that is to say, you wouldn't give families with average income a reduced rate; and you said that not many years ago, but a few months ago. This means that you would withdraw the monthly average support of Hungarian families with an average salary of HUF 181 thousand. Families using the car wouldn't be any better off. You want to step up the gas stop, and if you looked at the timeline, you would have done it by the end of the summer. It argued elsewhere that price stops should be shared and that price stop measures should be removed as soon as possible. Now, here's the economic policy dog buried, because you and your allies would put the burden on the shoulders of the Hungarian families. And we feel that support for families, support for businesses and the protection of jobs are also important at such an extraordinary time, and at such an extraordinary time it is really important. The shadow government is new on the left, but politics is old: austerity, tax increases, released energy prices. Before 2010, we have seen that this is not a recipe for economic recovery, but a recipe for economic stagnation. It doesn't seem like an attractive opportunity, so I respectfully ask you to leave this policy in the shadows and not bring it out into the light. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-04-30	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Speaking before the agenda, Mr László Földi, KDNP Group asked to address the issue of penalties in the wrong way. You have the floor.
u2022-10-04-31	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, While there are very serious economic problems throughout Europe, the Slovak Prime Minister is already afraid of the state failure because of a completely misguided Brussels sanctions policy, and tens of thousands of people in the Czech Republic have protested against sanctions, while the elite in Brussels insists on a failed sanctions policy. Ursula von der Leyen has announced another sanction package, which we know is not going to hurt Russia at all, as it would only damage EUR 7 billion. Following a long-term debate, Member States decided to stop Russian fixed oil imports by the end of the year in June, and since mid-August, no coal has been purchased from Russia. The sanctioning measure also prohibits European insurers from providing insurance above a certain price for Russian oil carriers but for third-country vessels. 90 percent of the insurance market in question is in Britain and the remaining 10 percent is in the continent. Charles Michel, President of the European Council, after ordering the oil embargo, said that the EU is putting as much pressure on Russia as possible to end its war against Ukraine. If we now ask what purpose Brussels has achieved with the sanction for oil imports, the answer is very simple: nothing. Russian oil banned from the West found another market in Asia, and Russia was able to record its oil sales. In fact, the introduction of the oil cap would only increase energy chaos in Brussels. The oil price cap is nothing more than a hidden energy guarantee, because it would be prohibited to trade Russian oil above a certain price level. If the Russians do not give their oil dictated by customers, at a slightly lower price than the world market, they will not buy it from them, and Russia may not deliver a drop of oil to Europe as a response. Dear House, The sanctions in Brussels are more painful for Europe than it was intended for Russia, but Brussels is constantly working on new sanctions. However, the seven months since the outbreak of the war are clear evidence that sanctions not only do not bring Russia to its knees, but they cause an energy crisis, a food crisis, and war inflation has skyrocketed. Hungary did not vote for sanctions, Hungary was exempted, but they turned the war of Ukraine and Russia from the local conflict of sanctions into a global economic war. If sanctions were to be lifted, inflation would also be reduced by half. Brussels and the left in Hungary are working inexplicably against their own citizens and are unable to understand that a misguided sanctions policy is not a solution, but oil on fire. The Brussels elite pursues an emotional policy that goes against common sense: they deny Europe's historical past and its roots, which is the only way to deal with historical conflicts. Peace is the only antidote to war inflation. Brussels should listen to reason, change sanctions and end the energy crisis. The immediate ceasefire and rapid peace negotiations are in the interests of Hungary and Europe as a whole. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-04-32	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Tamás Menczer, State Secretary, responds. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2022-10-04-33	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, We have heard many things, many interesting things from the left between the walls of Parliament, but the last few days or the last time I can think of today or even yesterday, because we have heard from the speakers of the Hungarian left constantly that the sanctions are not responsible for the price increase, the sanctions are not responsible for the gas price that is running away, the sanctions are not responsible for inflation, there are no sanctions, there are not even significant ones in this area. This is what we have heard from the speaker constantly, and because the sanctions are not responsible for the energy prices that are being released, the Hungarian government is obviously responsible for who else. [[9.20]] So the Hungarian government is responsible for the fact that energy prices are skyrocketing throughout Europe, the Hungarian government is responsible for the lack of energy according to the left, and the Hungarian government is responsible for all the governments of Europe's struggle to solve this current situation and what solutions it can find. Obviously that's not true, it doesn't take a lot of knowledge. Then the question that you may have dissected is justified: why does the Hungarian left say so? If they mean it, and they think it's true that it's not the sanctions that are responsible, it's a big problem. Two, they know that's not true, but that's what they're saying, and that's too bad. Three, they know that's not true, but that's what they're saying, because that's what they're paid for, right, dollar left, that's what we're getting to know now, that's a big problem. So, obviously, the sanctions are responsible for the energy prices that are getting out of control, and everyone knows that, because an oil guarantee has been decided in Brussels. Two: immediately afterwards parentheses: the Hungarian government was able to make an exception to oil, so the cheapest is petrol in Europe, but gas sanctions have already been taken on the agenda from oil sanitization, which is constantly being levitated, which is constantly on the table. The market is such that we have heard various exciting economic reasonings here, that it has priced gas subsidies, and immediately the prices have dropped. If sanctions, existing energy sanctions were abolished and future energy sanctions were not suspended, they would say that they would not be, then the price of energy would immediately be halved and inflation would be halved. The other thing I would like to talk about, Mr honourable Member, honourable House, is that there was a moral obligation here during the interrogation on the part of the Hungarian left in the previous minutes, what is moral duty. I would like to make it clear that, on the one hand, we seem to have a debate in this regard, and, on the other hand, the Hungarian Government does not have a moral obligation to support measures, sanctions that are otherwise bad, are extremely harmful to Hungarian people and the Hungarian economy, and would otherwise destroy the Hungarian economy and already have serious negative effects. The Hungarian government does not have a moral obligation to support such people, but the Hungarian government has a moral obligation to protect Hungarian people against them. There is a government and there is a foreign minister in Europe, the foreign minister of a large Western, wealthy country, who said that he didn't care what his voters thought about his decisions. The Hungarian left also seems to be on the same path that he doesn't care what the Hungarian people think about his decisions and his statements. But the Hungarian government is not on this path, the Hungarian government is interested in what Hungarian people think and acts according to Hungarian interests. That is why we ask in national consultation what Hungarian people think about sanctions. In particular, it is not our moral duty to support sanctions which, as you rightly said, have not achieved the desired goals. Brussels did not promise that it would hurt us more, as you said. The Russians are not hurting, Gazprom is on record profit in the first half of the year, $41.5 billion is Gazprom's first half-year profit, twice last year's profit and record; Europe is suffering from a lack of energy and an energy crisis. If we add that sanctions did not bring the end of the war, then it is clear that the sanctions measures did not bring the desired goal, and even had the opposite effect. In Hungary there is gas and there will be gas, and there will be energy supply and energy security in the future. We can't guarantee this better than that Turkish Stream [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] The only gas pipeline that still operates at 100 percent capacity and is operating safely is the gas coming to Hungary. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-04-34	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Ovádi, Fidesz Group, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor.
u2022-10-04-35	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We are living in extraordinary times: after having had a hard time dealing with the coronal virus epidemic and getting out of the economic crisis it caused, war broke out in our immediate neighbor. It is important to say that this is not our war, but the consequences of the conflict and the failed sanctions policy have a serious impact on our lives as well. The countries of Central and Eastern Europe are in a particularly difficult situation, as we are directly affected by the waves of war between Russia and Ukraine. While the daily news is almost exclusively about the rise in energy prices, economic difficulties and gloomy geopolitical analysis, we must not forget the things we work for every day, which we can be proud of, and which define us, are precisely the times when the greatest need is for culture's sustaining power. Ladies and gentlemen, In 2018, we dared to dream big in Veszprém, and the dream will soon become a reality, because in 110 days, in 2023, Veszprém and the Balaton region will be the cultural capital of Europe, which is an excellent opportunity for promoting Hungarian culture and forging national communities. Although the public is just beginning to explore the elements of the 2023 Cultural Season, in recent years there has been extensive work on the preparation of the programme series. The Government of Hungary grants special support to the programmes in the light of the seriousness of the task and the possibility. The grant agreement signed in 2020 awarded tens of billions of HUF for the preparation and implementation of the programmes, which I thank you for on behalf of every Veszprémian. I hope that as many people as possible will visit us and make sure that the support is in the right place, and that the programmes that will take place anywhere in Europe will be in place. When planning the cultural season, we were confident that we would like to focus on existing and successful events such as the Veszprém Festival, the Street Music Festival, the Auer Festival or the excellent performances of the city's theatres. Of course, the idea of new festivals was also formulated, so we created new creative spaces, a lot of programs in Veszprém and the entire Bakony-Balaton region. We place great emphasis on community building, because the only way to show ourselves successfully to Europe is to be aware of our common values. In the planning of infrastructure investments, we also tried to pay particular attention to creating new meeting points and community spaces, renovating old buildings worth a better fate and integrating them into the cultural circulation of the area. We have managed to pay serious debts to the people of Veszprém, because it is renewed and the building of the former children's hospital is given a new function, we have managed to acquire the building of the old Balaton Furniture Factory, and several ruined civil houses will also perform cultural functions during the renovation. Dear House, These are all serious achievements, but the uniqueness of the European Capital of Culture of Veszprém season comes from thinking in the region, and we have created a system of applications that allow the governments and civil society organisations of the Bakony-Balaton region to take their part in 2023 and feel even more so as their own. We support the development of exhibition halls, concert venues and community houses, as well as festivals, concerts and art camps with the help of the EKF. This is not only important from a cultural point of view, but also a major step towards the complex development of the region, with the impact of the cultural season, creative economic players who can provide a long-term perspective for the region. We must not forget that, thanks to the successful construction of recent years, catching up is no longer a task for us, but instead we must compete with similar regions of our western neighbours in order to maintain economic growth and to continuously develop the cutting edge. It's a serious task, but with such authority, nothing is impossible. Ladies and gentlemen, In 2023 Veszprém and its surroundings attempt to show the Europeanity of Hungarian culture and turn European culture into Hungarian. We are trying to make 2023 not a goal, but a starting point for the cultural future of the region. I urge everyone to visit Veszprém, find the programs they like, and be part of the cultural journey that is just beginning. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-04-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Minister Tibor Navracsics wishes to respond to what has been said. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2022-10-04-37	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, as my fellow Member Ovadi said, the cultural capital of Veszprém Europe will begin the cultural season in just over a hundred days, on 21 January. This date is of particular importance to us, because it is not only the eve of the day of Hungarian culture, but also the eve of the 200th birthday of Anthem, which is a perfect example of what Hungarian culture is for us: Hungarian and European, European and Hungarian, designates the place of Hungary in Europe and designates the place of Europe in the heart of Hungary. [[9.30]] Therefore, it is not possible to find a better start for the cultural season than on the evening of 21 January, when we hope that it will not be such a bad time that we will not be able to celebrate it in the open, because it will begin a series of programs that will provide a daily experience for nearly 200,000 people from Keszthely to Várpalota, from Marcali to Bakonybel, because Veszprém, when he submitted his application, also made sure that he would apply, not as a single city, but as an area surrounding him, and involve these settlements, more than a hundred settlements in the programme series. As a result, we hope that 2023 will not only be a series of events and celebrations in the closer sense of the city, but also the Bakony-Balaton region. Veszprém is serious about the responsibility of the mission. If someone deserves the title of being the cultural capital of Europe, then also allow other settlements to take advantage of this experience, to show themselves to Hungary, Hungarian tourists, but also to show it to Europe. For many of us who live in this region know precisely that in the beauty of the Bakony-Balaton region, in the culture of the people living there, in the sophistication of the landscape, in the gastronomic experience, it can compete with some more well-known Western European regions. Now it is our turn to show that this region is a worthy competitor of many tourist destinations in Western Europe. At the same time, we also want to pay attention not only to opening up to Europe, but also a little attention to strengthening our own communities. As a result, many elements of the programme series will support the small communities; local events that the outside world often ignores, but are there, and determine the weekdays, the holidays and the belongings of the people living there, their connection to the settlement or the region. As a result, we expect that every day, besides the major events in 2023, there will be something small in some settlement in the region that will convince the people living there that it is good to live there, and on the other hand, it will provide sufficient evidence for visitors that they have actually come to one of the most beautiful, attractive regions of Europe, Hungary, in Transdanubia, and that the communities there are the most open, sympathetic communities. At the same time, the cultural capital of Europe is not only intended for us to see culture as one of the most demanding forms of leisure. The Veszprém people believe that culture can also be a factor that creates jobs and stimulates economic growth. Based on the creative industry, gastronomy, the artisan traditions of those living there, using the beauty of the landscape, using the strength of the communities there, this region wants to build an economic model that is not unknown to Hungary and Europe, because we can mention regions from northern Italy, the South of France and Germany that are building their own economic model on the creative industry, on culture. Veszprém and the Bakony-Balaton region are now trying to do this. And the fact that we can try to do that, that national policy can provide support for this regardless of party affiliation, I think that is the greatest recognition for the mayor of the city and for the parliamentary representative of the region. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-10-04-38	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Thank you for your cooperation. Dear Parliament, In order to reach agreement with the European Commission, the 2017 XC on criminal proceedings follows. T/706. Proposal for a standard control, a report on the preparation of the norm control initiative and a debate on the proposal for an amendment to the norm control initiative. The proposed standard control T/706/11. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Legislative Committee's report on the preparation of the norm control initiative T/706/15. T/706/14. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, For the first time in the debate, the author of the proposed norm control will be given the floor for a ten-minute period. The rapporteur appointed by the Legislative Committee will then speak. This is followed by the speeches by the Members. First, I give the floor to Mr Répássy Róbert, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, author of the proposed norm control in a ten-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2022-10-04-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, Please allow me, on behalf of the government, to quote the proposal for standard control. The Government asks the Parliament to ask the Constitutional Court to examine the Act 1. In accordance with the Basic Law of §2 of the Law, a person other than the Public Prosecutor's Office may have the right to bring an indictment before a court, i.e. the new legal institution to be introduced by the law is in line with the principle of the prosecution's charge monopoly laid down in Article 29 (1) of the Fundamental Law. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Dear House, The purpose of the law is to introduce a completely new procedural correction, which is unknown to date in criminal proceedings, in the case of priority crimes relating to the exercise of public authority or the management of public assets. The first part of the new procedure involves a form of prosecution procedure aimed at making a judicial correction of the investigating authority's or prosecutor's decision refusing to prosecute in the first instance by means of procedural means, which will enable the investigation to continue in the right direction. However, in addition, the other part of the regulation ensures, within appropriate guarantees, that ultimately, if public law enforcement authorities refuse or do not consider it justified, that the person acting in this way is given the opportunity to appeal to a court with the indictment of high-priority crimes affecting the community, thereby ensuring that the court takes a final position on the matter of criminal liability because of the offence it considers to have been committed. Article 29 (1) of the Fundamental Law states that the Attorney General and the Public Prosecutor's Office are independent and, as a public prosecutor, the public prosecutor is the sole enforcer of the State's criminal claim. As a result, on the basis of the Hungarian constitutional arrangement, the independent prosecutor's office acts in the detection of various crimes relating to the use and management of public funds, as well as in the prosecution before the court. The principle of the prosecution's indictment monopoly was also confirmed in the Constitutional Court practice, when the panel explained that the prosecution's task was to provide a public prosecutor's order, to exercise the prosecution's monopoly, i.e. to establish that the Fundamental Law only designates the prosecutor's office as the enforcer of state criminal claims. In the view of the Government, the provisions of the new legal institution of the law allowing judicial redress against the decision of the prosecutor in criminal proceedings falling within the scope of the law are not contrary to the constitutional principle of the charge monopoly. In accordance with the consistent practice of the Constitutional Court, there is a constitutional possibility to introduce indictments, in which the legislator has a wide margin of discretion in view of the cases in which it provides such a procedural opportunity. [[9.40]] The Government agrees with the position of the Constitutional Court, which is clear that, in the event that the Prosecutor's Office considers that there is no place for criminal proceedings, it will in fact waive the enforcement of State criminal claims, and if, in such a case, the legislator still provides for another body exercising public authority, not including the possibility of acting before a court, then the constitutional requirement of the charge monopoly is not violated. Accordingly, the law provides the person seeking action to file an indictment only if the prosecutor's office has taken a decision to terminate the proceedings, on which an investigative judge has previously found that it was not justified. In the case under the law, too, it is the case that the prosecutor's office waives the enforcement of state criminal claims, and the legislator wishes to grant entities and persons strictly non-public powers the right, however, to initiate in court the determination of criminal liability in their view. In our view, taking into account the rule of law in relation to prosecution decisions of the Public Prosecutor's Office, only the redress mechanism that maintains and continues to guarantee the broad independence of the prosecution organisation system can be allowed. The Government would like to stress that Parliament has created the law put forward by the Government in the spirit that the new legal institution to be introduced by the Law does not, therefore, undermine the principle of the prosecutor's charge monopoly as set out in the Fundamental Law, nor limit its content, but merely create a new correction mechanism similar to that of a replacement private right, and lay down the principles of this. Dear House, So the author asks the Parliament to ask the Honourable Constitutional Court for prior norm control and to communicate the result to the Parliament. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-10-04-40	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented. I give the floor to Mrs Elias Boglarka, rapporteur of the committee, within a 10-minute time frame.
u2022-10-04-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that on 3 October 2022 the Legislative Committee discussed the 2017 XC on criminal proceedings in order to reach agreement with the European Commission. T/706. Law No. 1 proposed standard control. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 27 votes in favour, no votes against, with 2 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The law is an element of the corrections made in the so-called conditionality procedure on a general set of conditions for the protection of the EU budget, agreed in detail with the Commission. The law introduces a completely new mechanism of procedure, which is unknown to date in criminal proceedings, which has no precedent in the history of domestic legislation. As the Secretary of State has said, the first part of the new procedure is a form of prosecution procedure, the essence of which is a sort of correction of an accusation that can, in essence, be initiated by anyone in order to reach a judicial decision on the issue of guilt. The point of the new special procedure is, therefore, that, in the final case, a judicial procedure may be used, irrespective of the prosecutor's office, to force the investigation to be conducted effectively, and, finally, to take a final position on the matter of criminal liability on account of the criminal offence committed by the originator. In this sense, this new system is much similar to the supplementary private procedure, which gives the victim the same opportunity. Pursuant to Article 6 (2) of the Fundamental Law, Parliament may send the law adopted to the Constitutional Court to examine its compliance with the Fundamental Law. The Parliament shall decide on the motion after the final vote. In the event of the adoption of the motion, the President of the Parliament shall immediately send the Act adopted to the Constitutional Court for examination of its compliance with the Fundamental Law. In the case of support for standard control, the Parliament would therefore ask the Honourable Constitutional Court to examine Article 1 of the Act. In accordance with the Basic Law of §2 of the Law, a person other than the Public Prosecutor's Office may have the right to bring an indictment before a court, i.e. the new legal institution to be introduced by the law is in line with the principle of the prosecution's charge monopoly laid down in Article 29 (1) of the Fundamental Law. Dear House, In view of all this, I ask, with 27 votes in favour of the Legislative Committee, that you support the proposed norm control. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-10-04-42	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. A representative may present his position in a 10-minute time frame for each group of representatives in the debate and in a five-minute time frame for the first independent Member to speak. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, Fidesz Group.
u2022-10-04-43	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The aim of Fidesz is to agree with the European Commission as soon as possible. To this end, we supported the amendment of the Law on Criminal Procedure, but it is also a basic requirement for us, on which we also took an oath by our representatives to act in accordance with Hungary's Fundamental Law and to establish laws that comply with Hungary's Fundamental Law. We therefore support the Government's present motion to initiate a preliminary norm-control procedure to examine the compliance of the adopted law with the Basic Law. Ladies and gentlemen, According to this motion, we propose that we jointly ask the Honourable Constitutional Court to examine Article 1 of the Act. In accordance with the Basic Law of §2 of the Law, a person other than the Public Prosecutor's Office may have the right to bring an indictment before a court, i.e. the new legal institution to be introduced by the Law is in line with the principle of the prosecution's charge monopoly laid down in Article 29 (1) of the Fundamental Law. Article 29 (1) of the Fundamental Law states that the Attorney General and the Public Prosecutor's Office are independent; as a public prosecutor, the public prosecutor is the sole enforcer of the State's criminal claim. As a result, on the basis of the Hungarian constitutional arrangement, the independent prosecutor's office acts in the detection of various crimes relating to the use and management of public funds, as well as in the prosecution before the court. The principle of the prosecution's indictment monopoly also appears in the practice of the Constitutional Court, when the panel explained that the prosecution's task was to provide a public prosecutor's order, to exercise the prosecution's monopoly, i.e. the Board also states that the Fundamental Law only designates the prosecutor's office as the enforcer of state criminal claims. However, it is also necessary to see, ladies and gentlemen, that the requirement of independence of the prosecutor has been set at the highest constitutional level, since Article 29 (1) of the Fundamental Law also provides that the Prosecutor General and the Public Prosecutor's Office are independent. The Constitutional Court also confirmed the independence of the prosecution system guaranteed by the Fundamental Law when it stated that the principle of division of power arising from the rule of law justifies the independence of the Attorney General and the Public Prosecutor's Office. In view of the fact that the public prosecutor's organisation is represented in a separate organisation, it is a constitutional requirement to ensure not only personal independence but also organisational independence. Therefore, the Constitutional Court also concluded that the prosecution's organisation is independent of the other branches of power. [[9.50]] Ladies and gentlemen, Fidesz proposes to the Parliament that we propose that, on the basis of the reasons and considerations set out above, the Honourable Constitutional Court examine the law 1. §2 of the Law on the right of a person other than the Public Prosecutor's Office to prosecute a person before a court; that is, the new legal institution to be introduced by law is in line with the principle of the prosecutor's charge monopoly laid down in Article 29 (1) of the Fundamental Law. Thank you very much for your attention, and we are proposing the adoption of the proposal. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] The principle of a prosecutor's charge of prosecution set out in paragraph 1 of this Article. Thank you very much for your attention, and we are proposing the adoption of the proposal. (Applause from the benches of the governing parties.)
u2022-10-04-44	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr László Sebian-Petrovszki, Member of the DK Group, has applied for a speech. You have the floor.
u2022-10-04-45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Parliament, Yesterday, the Democratic Coalition was the only one who voted against Fidesz and the government's bill to support corruption, so we will act in the subsequent votes of this bill. So you know my position, I guess I don't really have to go into detail, really I'm just putting it in a nutshell. We know precisely from these bill proposals, from this bill supporting corruption that you do not want a real rule of law, that you do not want real independent justice, prosecution, court, and that you do not mean the fight against corruption. All you want to do is sing the EU money out of Brussels' mouth and then steal it in exactly the same system as you have done in the last 12 years. That is why we call this a package of proposals to support corruption, which is why we are talking about the fact that it will bring no change in our lives, that they would steal this money exactly as they have done in the last 12 years, so that is why we DKs are voting against it. But we are here now because there is a turnaround in this story, because what they do in this case with the Constitutional Court is done by turning to the Constitutional Court, well, it brings out the colour critic of every decent Democrat. Let's be clear, you're playing an act. They are also performing an act for the European Commission and for us. The participants of the work are you, honourable members of the Government, and the screenwriter and director of the work is Viktor Orbán. Speaking of acting, let's see how this charade is made up. He's a prognologist. In the last 12 years, the ugly, evil Brussels is satisfied that all EU funds have been transferred to the Orbán family and to the fidesz oligarchs, so it makes further payments subject to the devilish condition that Hungary has a rule of law and that subsidies can no longer be stolen. Introduction. Orbán and his faithful accomplices have therefore put forward, among other things, a proposal that would in principle allow the Fidesz Attorney General Péter Polt to be bypassed in the event of corruption suspected crimes. Any Hungarian citizen will in principle force court proceedings in such a case, and Péter Polt will no longer protect anyone. That is what you promise in this proposal. But that sounds nice, too. You voted in favour of this proposal and would now send it to the Constitutional Court for standard control. It's a complication. The Constitutional Court, what God gives, will reject this proposal, saying that this proposal is against the law and contrary to the principle of the prosecution's charge monopoly. Poor Viktor Orbán did not remember that according to the Fundamental Law adopted by him, only the prosecution can accuse anyone in Hungary, and the Constitutional Court has already drawn the line on where this accusation goes, how far it can go. This proposal goes beyond what a disaster it is. End. Viktor Orbán spread his arms to the European Commission, regretfully, because he did everything he could. It has adopted the bill requested by the European Commission, but unfortunately, the damn independent Constitutional Court and the granite-solid Fundamental Law, which is known not to be amended, will conclude his hand. This case will be just another proof of the shining star of Hungarian democracy and the rule of law applause and curtain. You can send this case to Brussels, Minister Navracsics will narrate this situation outside. It's not a Bertolt Brecht, but it's the right thing to do. Dear House, I think we should stop pretending. Let's be honest. It's very clear that your bill is against the law. That's how it was written, that's what it's supposed to do. The whole point of this charade is to make this happen. Viktor Orbán sends the bill he has written and proposed to the Constitutional Court himself, so that they can compare it with the Basic Law he has adopted and find a striking error in it. I wouldn't be surprised if this mistake had been underlined with a text highlighter to find out what the mistake was. Of course, by comparing the Fundamental Law with the Constitutional Court, Viktor Orbán is virtually having the law that he knows could mean the end of his power if he were to enter into force. However, there is a much simpler solution here: this goal could be formulated and achieved in a different way. If you really wanted the attorney general Péter Polt to be bypassed, I would suggest a very simple solution for you: we need to amend the Fundamental Law. After all, they've done it 11 times so far, why not the 12th, and now for some reason? If you really wanted Péter Polt to be bypassed in such proceedings and wanted a real fight against corruption, and indeed from the family of Viktor Orbán to Lőrinc Mészáros a bunch of Fidesz criminals would have been able to amend the Fundamental Law, as they have done 11 times. You didn't want to do this, so you did what we're looking at. I understand your argument on this. But the Democratic Coalition wants to shine a light on the fact that it wants to prove to you that this is an act we see here. Therefore, in these moments, we are submitting an amendment to the basic law in this regard, because we have prepared this proposal, do not misunderstand, not once again because we are submitting it because we want your bill to pass through the Constitutional Court, but precisely because we want to prove that this is all we are doing here, in fact, an act in connection with this bill, along with the appeal to the Constitutional Court. These legislative proposals, as we have repeatedly said in yesterday's debate, are unacceptable to us, too soft, in no way reaching the goal that would be desirable. To say just one thing: the simplest solution to fight corruption would be to turn to the European Public Prosecutor's Office and to join the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Of course, you don't want this, we understand, it's much easier to create an anti-corruption authority of all kinds, out of their own bosom, whose president is proposed by the President of the SAO, elected by you, and appointed by the President of the Republic, elected by you. We understand that, but that's exactly what we're trying to highlight. So there are two ways you can relate to this amendment to the DK basic law that has just been tabled. Or you will be voted in favour, and then, gentlemen, ladies, many of you will soon go to prison simply because a procedure will work that awaits you for the corruption crimes of the last 12 years. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: What is this? What's this threat from a criminal?]] Or they reject this proposal and admit that this whole story about turning to the Constitutional Court was actually an act, it was just another charade, and it was only for the purpose of getting your bill package to support your corruption, the money coming from Brussels, and you can steal it, just as you have done in the last 12 years. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Zsolt Gréczy applauds.]]
u2022-10-04-46	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group. I believe that you will also say what I would have wished to add to what the Member said.
u2022-10-04-47	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Before I get to the subject, allow me to reject the threat of Gyurcsányist thug László Sebian-Petrovszki from prison, that you are threatening the entire democratically elected parliamentary majority elected by Hungarian citizens here with prison. If you're going to threaten someone with a prison sentence, you should contact your partymates. There's a prison team coming up from the last few years. That's what a desperate man who really wants to get into the shadow government looks like, but they missed it. Zsolt Gréczy is sitting next to him, and he also came in because he was left out of the shadow government, and he resents that quite a bit, don't you, Ferenc Gyurcsány? [[Zsolt Gréczy: Why are you here? Are you here because you're not in the government?]] [[10.00]] That's why you're here, and that's why you're trying to push me. That's why Szabolcs Szabó came in. [[Noise in DK's ranks.]] The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that László Sebian-Petrovszki was the man who was both direct co-workers of Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsány and direct associate of Gordon Bajnai during the period, which, according to the European Union's own wording, was the most corrupt government and period. We can remember subway 4, the case of Welt 2000 and a number of cases. [[To Laszlo Sebian-Petrovski, who repeatedly intervened:]] I have also listened to you, honourable Member, no matter how much nonsense you have spoken in the last 15 minutes or ten minutes. The fact is that László Sebian-Petrovszki was specifically a direct associate of the two Heads of Government to whom our EU funds are lost; the 2007 EU cycle. Hungary has lost significant resources due to poor use. For example, it is also with Mr László Sebian-Petrovszki that we have misused funds, and that is why we have lost EU funds in the 2007 period. And we can also remember that the European Union itself said that metro 4, which is your scandal, was the most corrupt case in Hungary in the last 32 years, my fellow Members. [[Noise in DK's ranks.]] But Welt 2000 Kft. His case, Ferenc Gyurcsány's affairs, could also be brought here [[The president's ringing the bell.]] We could bring these matters here nicely, ladies and gentlemen, but why should we waste this word, the Hungarian people know precisely and the reason why so few people vote for you is because they know how corrupt you are and what corrupt governance you have implemented between 2002 and 2010, which, as a direct colleague, was also part of László Sebian-Petrovszki. If we look at the roster of your great shadow government, something may appear to the Secretary of State, Répássy, that there is no Shadow Justice Minister. I've been assigned to all areas, there's a rural council consultant, there's a metropolitan council consultant, all positions have been distributed, but the Honourable Gyurcsány couple couldn't afford the Minister of Justice. Why is that? It may be because the Gyurcsány couple is afraid of the truth as they fear the fire, fear the justice system as they fear the fire, fear the justice and justice as a concept, because the main policy is that we lied in the morning, at night and at night. Well, how could there be a Shadow Justice Department in a shadow government like this? Dear fellow Members, Let us be very clear about two facts about what is happening here today. What is happening, on the one hand, is that the representatives of DK have now continued the line that Klára Dobrev has been expressing in Brussels for years, to which he has now tried to put the majority of the European Parliament on the left: your clear intention is not to have an agreement between Hungary and the European Commission. This is also the intention of Klára Dobrev, and it is Ferenc Gyurcsány's intention, and the entire Hungarian Left's intention is not to have an agreement between Hungary and the European Commission. This is what MEPs from Jobbik, MEPs from DK, MEPs from Momentum are working on. Since last week's debate, it has changed so much that the MSZP no longer has an MEP, but he is working on it. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, this is my first statement, which is a matter of fact. The second statement is that you are doing everything you can to ensure that there is no agreement between Hungary and the European Commission, the result of which is that, in the end, this is your goal, that we do not receive the funds that are due to us, Hungarian people, Hungarian businesses, Hungarian families, Hungarian teachers cannot receive the funds that they deserve from the European Union. We have often said that because of the foreign service reflex, you still think about it as some kind of donation from the European Union. These are the resources for us, in which, for example, in the last few months, a series of negotiations, led by Minister Navracsics, led by Minister Varga, started on a constructive, professional basis. We finally heard from Brussels not only when we asked what the problem was, that, well, that's the overall picture and all that, and what we're looking at like this... So they never mentioned anything specific. We have finally reached the point in dialogue with the Commission that there are concrete things in which the Hungarian Government and, by the way, the European Commission are also compromises, on which we could agree, and after the 14th of September ratio agreement, we have already discussed these laws on 26 September, honourable Members. The government, the Parliament, has presented it, and there is also a law that we would like to ask for the rule of law of the Constitutional Court. It is quite clear what you think of the agreement with the European Commission. You are afraid that this agreement will happen, because there has been a meaningful dialogue with the European Commission over the past six months, you are afraid that Hungarian businesses, Hungarian families and Hungarian teachers will receive this money, and you will start to squawk around in fear and try to drill this agreement using the left-wing majority of the European Parliament to do so. Why? Because then, the horse-zungs that you have said so far, that Klára Dobrev said on how many occasions in Brussels that until Viktor Orbán is Prime Minister, we will not get a single euro cent of money, how many times did Klára Dobrev say in Brussels that until he becomes Prime Minister or left-wing Prime Minister, Hungary will not receive anything from the resources that are due to him? These lie castles would collapse. You do not want teachers to get a salary increase, you do not want small and medium-sized enterprises in the Hungarian economy to have economic development programmes, you do not want civil society organisations, church communities to have important community-building resources, and you do not want energy efficiency programmes to start in Hungary. You don't want all of this. If they had wanted to, they would have facilitated the agreement, if they had wanted it, they would have used the EU funds intelligently in the 2007 budget cycle, and they would not have been squandered, as they did at the time, and if you had wanted this agreement, they would have helped in substance, and, for example, by their votes yesterday, they would have supported what the European Commission supports, because the European Commission has examined the legislative proposals submitted. These legislative proposals have been submitted on the basis of the agreements and the Commission has concluded that they can resolve our existing disputes. The fact that Ferenc Gyurcsány drags forward past cases and constantly links them to the present situation is not only fair, but also directly against the national interest. We are asking you to finish your anti-national policy, to stop it, because there have been all kinds of slippings and a number of lies in the Member's keynote speech, trying to undermine the agreement between the Commission and Hungary in this way, for the purposes of a nasty day's political interest. They are using their positions because they also have four MEPs, one of which is the wife of the Shadow Prime Minister, the real Prime Minister, so the Shadow Prime Minister is sitting outside the European Parliament and also vice-president, so use their positions there to help Hungary rather than harm Hungary. All we ask of you is that you do not harm Hungary. And if they do, then we'll be satisfied, and then we'll stop what we have to say to you. Because the thing is, ladies and gentlemen, what you're doing right now is wrong. You want to harm Hungary, and we believe that a Member of Parliament has one task: to use it, to benefit Hungary, and to use to the benefit of Hungary the mandate he received from the Hungarian people. That's what we're asking of you. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-04-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Before I ask anyone else to speak, I would like to inform my fellow Members that, according to our agreed agenda, one Member from each group of Members may speak in the debate, which is why I am not in a position to give the floor to Mr Zsolt Gréczy. I ask that one of the political groups here would like to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: Yes.]] You have the floor.
u2022-10-04-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I will try to draw your attention briefly to some facts. The first and most important fact is that the prosecution's prosecution's monopoly has been enjoyed by only one politician so far, Ferenc Gyurcsány. I don't know, do you remember that the National Assembly suspended Ferenc Gyurcsány's immunity, the D.A.'s office conducted an investigation against him, and then terminated the proceedings? I wish there had been such courage then, and I wish it had been then that any Hungarian citizen was allowed to press charges against Ferenc Gyurcsány! Of course, they were not allowed to do so at the time. So until now, the prosecution's prosecution monopoly has protected Ferenc Gyurcsány alone. [[Intercoms. The president's ringing the bell.]] László Sebian-Petrovszki called this proposal a package of laws to support corruption and the legislative proposals on which it is based. We have already gotten used to this statement against the government, but we are not used to the fact that they also claim to contribute to a package of laws supporting corruption against the European Commission. [[10.10]] This proposal and all other proposals are legislative proposals negotiated, agreed with and adopted by the European Commission, so your accusation does not fall back on the government, but on the European Commission. As regards the conspiracy theory that you have set out here, how the government will try to overthrow its own proposal in the Constitutional Court, honourable Member, we would obviously not initiate prior norm control, there would be another way. This is not the case, so the government is convinced, and has negotiated this with the European Commission all along because the government believes that the proposal, the law, is in line with the Fundamental Law, but I think it is right for all of us to have the final word on this matter from the Constitutional Court. I would like to add, as Lőrinc Nacsa said, that they are not doing the government a favor by supporting this proposal, but by doing favours to their country, Hungary, if they are willing to put Hungary's interests first. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-04-50	I thank the Secretary of State for his answers. Dear Parliament, At the earliest, the Parliament will continue its work by decision at 11:30 a.m. I'm ordering a break for 11 hours and 30 minutes. (Recess: 10.11-11.40) President: Dr. János Latorcai Note: Dr. István Tiba and Dávid Dócs)
u2022-10-04-51	Good afternoon, fellow Members. I welcome you all with love. I'm asking everyone to take their seats, make sure that your card is properly placed in the voting machine. My fellow members of the Government will take their seats as well. Thank you. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. In today's decisions, we also decide to accept proposals requiring a qualified majority. I would like to draw your attention to the decision-making rule of 50. § 3, if Parliament does not adopt a provision requiring a qualified majority in the final vote of the bill or a proposal for a resolution, this shall extend without any further specific decision to the withdrawal of the provision indicating the fundamentality of the non-approved regulation. In this case, the final vote by a simple majority shall take place on the amended text of the proposal. Before we begin the voting procedure, we will carry out a presence check to verify that the voting machines are operational. My fellow Members, please press one of the buttons of your voting machine. Now! [[Attendance check.]] The number of the Parliament is 199, there are 176 and there are 23 persons. Parliament has a quorum. Dear House, In the context of the Conditionality Procedure, the 2017 XC on criminal proceedings follows. a decision on a proposal for a regulation of the norm proposed to the law adopted on 3 October amending law. The proposed standard control T/706/11. T/706/14, and T/706/15. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I would like to inform you that the Parliament will vote on the proposal for an amendment to the norm-control initiative and then decide on the proposed norm-control. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal to amend the standard control initiative. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/706/14. the proposal for an amendment to the norm-control initiative. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment to the Normanry initiative by 132 votes in favour, 12 votes against and 35 abstentions. Now we're deciding on the standard control proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/706/11. Proposal for norm control No 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the proposed norm control by 133 votes in favour, 12 votes against and 34 abstentions. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that, in accordance with our recent decision, Article 6 (2) of the Fundamental Law and the House Rules of Decisions 76. Pursuant to Article 15 of the Rules of Procedure, the President of Parliament shall immediately send the law adopted to the Constitutional Court, together with the proposed standard control, for examination of its compliance with the Fundamental Law. The next step is the T/1260 on the control of the use of EU budgetary resources. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. I would remind you that, according to our previous decision, the bill will be dealt with in an urgent hearing by the Parliament. T/1260/7 of the legislative committee's summary amendment report T/1260/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, the Group of Dialogue proposed the continuation of Amendment 4. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment No 4 is proposed by Mrs Szabó Timea, Head of the Group. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] On the basis of paragraph 1 of this Article, the Dialogue Group has proposed that Amendment 4 be maintained. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment No 4 is proposed by Mrs Szabó Timea, Head of the Group. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 48 votes in favour, 130 votes against and 1 abstention. Dear House, As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1260/7. A summary amendment was proposed. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 150 votes in favour, 12 votes against and 18 abstentions. It is now the final vote. In view of the fact that the Parliament has just accepted the summary amendment proposal, the provisions of the submitted bill referring to the fundamentality have been abandoned, and therefore, in the final vote, we will decide according to the rules of the simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1260/10. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 150 votes in favour, 12 votes against and 19 abstentions. It follows now that T/1202 on the amendment of certain laws in order to reach agreement with the European Commission follows. on the regularity of the proposal for an excessive amendment to bill No 72. § 1 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union, on the initiative of proceedings pursuant to Article 1 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and on the proposals for amendments to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, on the one hand, and on the other, on the other, on the other. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that, in accordance with our previous decision, the bill is being discussed by Parliament in an urgent hearing. T/1202/10 and T/1202/17. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee has submitted amendments extending beyond T/1202/11, 12, 13, 14 and 15 and simultaneously with the submission of T/1202/16. No 72 of the Rules of Procedure. § 1 has proposed to the Honourable Parliament, in which it proposes to the House Rule 71, in respect of all proposals for amendments which are overextensive. Paragraph 3 (a) to (c) shall not apply. [[11.50]] I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that we will decide separately on the over-extending amendments, first on the regularity of the over-extending amendment proposal, then on the 72nd. § 1 proposal. If these are adopted, we will decide on the proposal for an over-extending amendment. This is followed by the continuation of the amendment proposed by its representatives, and the decision on the draft amending proposal and, finally, the final vote. Dear Parliament, The resolution house rule is 71. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Article 44 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, Parliament decides without debate that the extension of the proposed amendment is linked to the content of a duly amended proposal or to the House Rule 44 of the Rules of Procedure. If it is clearly necessary to enforce the criteria set out in paragraph 1 of Section 1. Prior to the decisions, the rapporteur appointed by the Legislative Committee, and then, if there is a minority opinion in the Legislative Committee, the rapporteur for the minority opinion may speak in a total time frame of four minutes. The rapporteur may then state his position within a two-minute time frame. I would like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that the Legislative Committee has indicated in advance that it does not present a rapporteur. I ask that someone on the part of the authors wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak on the regularity of the over-extensive amendments. Please press the button to apply. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. So now it's T/1202/11. We decide on the regularity of the proposal for an excessive amendment. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament that the T/1202-11. The proposal for an over-expansive amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament has declared the proposal for an amendment extending by 150 votes in favour, 12 votes against and 20 abstentions in order. Now the resolution house rule is 72. § (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Parliament's contribution requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to agree that T/1202/16 T/1202/11. With regard to the excessive amendment proposal No 71, the House Rules of the Decision Paragraph 3 (a) to (c) shall not apply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] - Paragraph 8 shall not apply. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament agreed to the proposal by 151 votes in favour, 12 votes against and 19 abstentions. We are now deciding on the adoption of an over-extensive amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of point 1 of this Article, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on a point requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/1202/11. Point 1 requiring a majority of the duly overextensive amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the point of the exceeding amendment, which required a qualified majority, by 151 votes in favour, 12 votes against and 19 abstentions. We are now deciding on a further point in the overextensive amendment that requires a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/1202/11. An additional point in the proposal of the duly overextensive amendment, which requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the additional point of the overextensive amendment by 150 votes in favour, 12 votes against and 19 abstentions. Now T/1202/12. We decide on the regularity of the proposal for an excessive amendment. I ask the Honourable Parliament to declare the T/1202/12 legal. The proposal for an over-expansive amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament has declared the proposal for an amendment extending by 150 votes in favour, 12 votes against and 19 abstentions in order. Now the resolution house rule is 72. § (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Parliament's contribution requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to agree to the T/1202/16. T/1202/12 on the basis of the proposal No. With regard to the excessive amendment proposal No 71, the House Rules of the Decision Paragraph 3 (a) to (c) shall not apply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] - Paragraph 8 shall not apply. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament agreed to the proposal by 152 votes in favour, 12 votes against and 19 abstentions. We are now deciding on the adoption of an over-extensive amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of point 1 of this Article, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on a point requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/1202/12. Point 1 requiring a majority of the duly overextensive amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the point of the overextending amendment by 152 votes in favour, 12 votes against and 19 abstentions. We are now deciding on a further point in the overextensive amendment that requires a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/1202/12. An additional point in the proposal of the duly overextensive amendment, which requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted an additional point requiring a simple majority, with 151 votes in favour, 13 votes against and 19 abstentions. Now T/1202/13. We decide on the regularity of the proposal for an excessive amendment. I ask the Honourable Parliament to declare the T/1202/13 legal. The proposal for an over-expansive amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament declared the proposal for an amendment extending by 152 votes in favour, 12 votes against and 19 abstentions in order. Now the resolution house rule is 72. § (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Parliament's contribution requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to agree to the T/1202/16. T/1202/13. With regard to the excessive amendment proposal No 71, the House Rules of the Decision Paragraph 3 (a) to (c) shall not apply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] - Paragraph 8 shall not apply. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament agreed to the proposal by 151 votes in favour, 12 votes against and 19 abstentions. [[12.00]] We are now deciding on the adoption of an over-extensive amendment proposal. In view of the fact that this includes parts requiring a qualified majority, the decision will be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the part requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament, therefore, if the Legislative Committee accepts T/1202/13. The majority of the amended proposal for a duly over-extensive amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament has accepted the qualified majority of the proposal by 152 votes in favour, 12 votes against and 19 abstentions. We are now deciding on other parts of the over-extensive amendment proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/1202/13. The other parts of its duly overextensive amendment proposal require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the remainder of the proposal for an overextensive amendment by 152 votes in favour, 12 votes against and 19 abstentions. Now T/1202/14. We decide on the regularity of the proposal for an excessive amendment. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament that the T/1202-14. The proposal for an over-expansive amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament declared the proposal for an amendment extending by 152 votes in favour, 12 votes against and 19 abstentions in order. Now the resolution house rule is 72. § (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Parliament's contribution requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to agree that T/1202/16 T/1202/14. With regard to the excessive amendment proposal No 71, the House Rules of the Decision § 3 paragraphs 3 to 8 shall not apply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] - paragraphs 8 do not apply. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament agreed to the proposal by 151 votes in favour, 12 votes against and 19 abstentions. We are now deciding on the adoption of an over-extensive amendment proposal. In view of the fact that this includes parts requiring a qualified majority, the decision will be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the part requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the Legislative Committee T/1202/14. The majority of the amended proposal for a duly over-extensive amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the part of the overextensive amendment which required a qualified majority by 151 votes in favour, 12 votes against and 19 abstentions. We are now deciding on other parts of the over-extensive amendment proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/1202/14. The other parts of its duly overextensive amendment proposal require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the remainder of the proposal for an overextensive amendment by 152 votes in favour, 12 votes against and 19 abstentions. Now T/1202/15. We decide on the regularity of the proposal for an excessive amendment. I ask the Honourable Parliament to declare the T/1202/15 legal. The proposal for an over-expansive amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament declared the proposal for an amendment extending by 152 votes in favour, 12 votes against and 19 abstentions in order. Now the resolution house rule is 72. § (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Parliament's contribution requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to agree that T/1202/16 T/1202/15 on the basis of the T/1202/15 proposal With regard to the excessive amendment proposal No 71, the House Rules of the Decision § 3 paragraphs 3 to 8 shall not apply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] - paragraphs 8 do not apply. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament agreed to the proposal by 152 votes in favour, 12 votes against and 19 abstentions. We are now deciding on the adoption of an over-extensive amendment proposal. In view of the fact that this includes parts requiring a qualified majority, the decision will be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the part requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the present two-thirds of the members of Parliament. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/1202/15. The majority of the amended proposal for a duly over-extensive amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the part of the overextensive amendment which required a qualified majority by 151 votes in favour, 12 votes against and 19 abstentions. We are now deciding on other parts of the over-extensive amendment proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/1202/15. The other parts of its duly overextensive amendment proposal require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the remainder of the proposal for an overextensive amendment by 152 votes in favour, 12 votes against and 19 abstentions. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the House Rule of Procedure is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, the Group of Dialogue proposed the continuation of Amendment 6. That's what we're gonna decide now. Amendment 6 is proposed by Mr Szabó Timea. I would like to draw your attention to the need for a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present in order to maintain this proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 51 votes in favour, 129 votes against and 1 abstention. As the Parliament did not hold up an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 2 and 3, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the points requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1202/10. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 152 votes in favour, 12 votes against and 19 abstentions. [[12.10]] We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1202/10. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment, which require a simple majority, by 151 votes in favour, 12 votes against and 20 abstentions. Dear House, Fellow Members! It is now the final vote. In view of the fact that the Parliament has adopted the proposals for an amendment which is duly overextensive and the summarised amendment, the final vote will decide on the whole of the single proposal containing the proposals for an over-extensive amendment. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1202/19. Points requiring a qualified majority of the single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 151 votes in favour, 12 votes against and 19 abstentions. We are now deciding on provisions requiring a simple majority of the single proposal containing over-extensive amendments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1202/19. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 152 votes in favour, 12 votes against and 19 abstentions. Dear House, It follows that, in order to reach agreement with the European Commission, the 2010 CXXX on legislation will follow. Act and Act CXXXI of 2010 on social participation in the preparation of legislation. T/705 amending Act No. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. I would remind you that, according to our previous decision, the bill will be discussed in an urgent hearing by the Parliament. T/705/7. T/705/8 and T/705/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/705/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 150 votes in favour, 12 votes against and 19 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/705/9. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 152 votes in favour, 12 votes against and 19 abstentions. We now have T/1261 amending certain laws relating to the control of the use of EU budgetary resources. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/1261/7 and T/1261/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/1261/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 151 votes in favour, 12 votes against and 19 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/1261/9. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 151 votes in favour, 12 votes against and 19 abstentions. Dear Parliament, In line with our agreed agenda, decisions are now being taken to accept the responses to the interpellations made yesterday. Mr László Kordás, representative of DK, I/1595. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 132 votes in favour, 48 votes against, with three abstentions. Mr Dezső, Member of the MSZP, Member of the I/1307. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 133 votes to 49, with one abstention. Szabolcs Szabó, representative of Momentum, I/1316. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 132 votes in favour, 49 votes against and one abstention. Mr Róbert Dudás, representative of Jobbik, I/1322. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 124 votes in favour, 43 votes against and 7 abstentions. Mr. President Novak, representative of Mi Hazan, representative of I/1220. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 131 votes in favour, 25 votes against and 11 abstentions. Congresswoman Bernadett Bakos, representative of the LMP, I/1318. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 130 votes in favour, 48 votes against and two abstentions. Lot. Ms Erzsébet Németh, representative of DK, at I/1315. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 130 votes in favour, 49 votes against and one abstention. Dear Parliament, It is now 11/2022 on the establishment of committees, the election of members and officials of Parliament. [[V. 2.]] A decision to amend a decision. S/1379 submitted by the President We have all been able to get to know the proposal on the website. I would like to ask Mr István Tiba to present the content of the personal proposal put forward by the President. Here you go, notary. You have the floor. [[12.20]]
u2022-10-04-52	11/2022 on the establishment of committees, election of members and officials of the Parliament [[V. 2.]] Section 1 of the parliamentary decision is amended as follows: Parliament elects Ander Balázs, Jobbik, Jakab Péter, independent, member of the committee. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption.
u2022-10-04-53	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept S/1379. Proposal 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the proposal with 169 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, We've reached the end of the decisions. We're taking a two-minute technical break. (Sunning: 12.21 12.24 President: Dr. János Latorcai Note: Dr. István Tiba and Dávid Dócs)
u2022-10-04-54	Thank you very much for understanding my fellow Members. I want the Parliament to be able to continue its work. I would also ask my fellow pro-government Members to leave the Chamber immediately for their important official task, to do so as quickly and as quietly as possible. [[Noise. It's a short break.]] Once again, I would like to ask my fellow Members that, if they have something important to discuss, there are plenty of rooms in this House that are suitable for discussion there, but there is room for debate here. So let's start our work accordingly. It follows the XCIII of 2021 on the coordination of defence and security activities. General discussion of the bill amending law on the extension of an emergency until closure. Presentation by representatives of Máté Kocsis fideszes, István Simicskó KDNP, Mónika Dunai fideszes and Illés Boglárka fideszes, Károly Kontrat fideszes, Lajos Kósa fideszes and Lőrinc Nacsa KDNPs T/1308. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. The time frame is 30 minutes. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-10-04-55	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Secretary. There has been a war going on in our neighborhood since February 2022, a war that no one has wanted and no one will support. Unfortunately, some people have been supporting him since then, and in the beginning, he started with no one to support him. The position of Fidesz-KDNP and the Hungarian government has been clear since the first day of the war: we want peace in Ukraine. It is no accident that the Hungarian Parliament adopted a parliamentary resolution at the end of the previous parliamentary term, in which we condemned the Russian aggression, in which we stood up for Ukraine's territorial integrity and sovereignty, and in which we stressed the European Union and international community effort to make peace as soon as possible. We continue to believe in the period since February and maintain our position that the international community must do everything in its power to ensure peace in Ukraine as soon as possible. This requires the Member States and officials of the European Union, which requires the UN, which requires the United States. It is perfectly clear, as a dominant player without the United States, this peace will not be established, or only too late. It is quite clear that war has very serious consequences for Europe as a whole. We have seen it, and many of my fellow pro-government Members have also had certain opposition fellow Members, but they are the only ones I have not met at the Hungarian-Ukrainian border at the points of assistance. Superhuman is the work that is done at the border of volunteers, church organizations, charitable organizations, municipalities and public authorities. I think we've seen an unprecedented collaboration in the last six months. Thank you to everyone who has participated in helping nearly 1.5 million Ukrainian refugees now, and we have also been able to help third-country refugees who have just been in Ukraine, have completed their studies or have been there for work purposes. I also had the opportunity to meet a student from Zimbabwe, an Indian doctor and a student from Canada at the border. So I think that not only in terms of strength, but also in terms of strength, we have helped, and we are helping now. If you read the police reports in this direction, it is clear that to date there are around 5-15 thousand people who come every day, either through the direct Hungarian-Ukrainian border, Transcarpathia or through Romania from Ukraine. Our position was perfectly clear then, and it is perfectly clear today: the war must be ended in peace and must be completed as soon as possible. This war, of course, imposes burdens on Europe as a whole, other than the peoples concerned, against which effective and swift decision-making is one of the most important and obvious instruments. In order to avoid a humanitarian disaster, the government had to decide very quickly in a number of cases. [[12.30]] I would like to mention, as an example, the vaccination of incoming children, as not only against Covid, but also a number of compulsory vaccinations in the European Union or in Hungary, did not exist for Ukrainian refugee children that needed to enter Hungary and the EU. I could mention the setting-up of employment points and job placement programs, the schooling programmes for these children who stayed here and decided not to go any further, but to stay in Hungary and wait for the time when they could return to their country if they wanted to return. We can also see how much assistance has been provided to the Transcarpathian community, both to those who have remained there, and to those who have decided to come this time, from work to education to various grants. The largest humanitarian programme in Hungary's history not only took place, but it is also taking place in these moments, the donations are constantly coming to the border, and we are constantly taking donations to the Transcarpathian region and beyond the Carpathian region, also to the Ukrainian areas affected by the war. This is the joint effort of the Hungarian government and the charitable organisations and our national community. It was touching to see that donations were also sent from Southern Transylvania, Transylvania, to Transcarpathia, and the parts of the nation joined together to help the people who lived there. Not only do we say it, but in the New York Times, in the Financial Times, there have also been reports in various international newspapers that there is an energy crisis in Europe, and that many have also written about it, and that more and more analysts are talking about it, that sanctions are the main cause of the energy crisis, the failed sanctions in Brussels. There are 11,000 sanctions in place, and we are talking about energy, because we see that sanctions have been introduced that are more damaging to Europe than harming the European economy, European families, than harming Russia, which the European Union wants to sanction. At such times, Zsolt Gréczy always shakes his head that this is not the case, but it is clear to the contrary that the proceeds of EUR 160 billion were made to Gazprom in the first six months. This is more than last year's annual income, of which EUR 85 billion was paid by the European Union's states and their energy companies paid off to the Russian Gazprom. From this point on, it's clear that if you earn your entire year's income in six months, it didn't get any worse, it didn't get any worse. [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] In first grade mathematics, they teach you what the bigger number is. It is also quite clear that these energy sanctions put the European economy and European families in a very difficult position. The sanctions for Russian energy will paralyze the European industry, and this will put the continent at a competitive disadvantage, and do not give it to me, God, we can also get there that many European companies will have to pull the plug, and this could also trigger an unemployment spiral. We think that these sanctions need to be rethinked, we think that energy sanctions are wrong, because they hurt the party who imposed the sanctions more than the party who was sanctioned, and these sanctions are now painfully reattaching Europe. Winter is coming, we see news coming from different countries, people protesting against sanctions, people protesting against high energy prices, because they fought back on Europe. When these sanctions were imposed and imposed in Brussels, they promised that this was important and good because it could bring the end of the war quickly because it brought the Russian economy to its knees, the Russian state would not have the money for warfare, and the war could end quickly from here on out. Well, dear fellow Members, if you look around, that is not the case today in the world, that is not the case today in Russia, and that is not the case in Ukraine. The sanctions did not bring the end of the war any closer, but they pushed it further away. The fact is, my fellow Members, that the bureaucrats in Brussels have failed to comply with what they promised, the energy sanctions imposed at the end of the war have not brought the end of the war closer. What I still see as a particular problem, and it is worth talking about here in the Hungarian Parliament, is that, despite all this, the Hungarian left is constantly supporting sanctions, you are pro-sanctions: from week to week, they say that sanctions work and even promise more and more sanctions. As early as the campaign, in the weeks following the start of the war, you were talking about shutting off the gas taps immediately. You were talking about the need to impose sanctions that would have brought the Hungarian economy to its knees, which would have been a huge blow to the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian industry and Hungarian businesses would have suffered a huge disadvantage. Your candidate for Prime Minister, Péter Márki-Zay, said that the reality, however, is that sanctions work, and this is the most peaceful way from the West. László Varju also said that the most targeted type of sanctions is the energy sanction, which works. Balázs Barkóczi, a DK representative, also said that this gas purchase will not benefit any Hungarian, only Russia, suffering from European sanctions, can obviously not be true. But I could quote Bence of Tordai, Anna Donáth, András Fekete-Győr, anyone who said, most recently, the President of Momentum, Ferenc Gelencsér, that sanctions are good and work, but yesterday we could also hear in front of the Democratic Coalition's agenda that these sanctions are good and work. That is why we asked the government to launch a national consultation, because only Hungarians in Europe can first express their views on sanctions in Brussels [[Kálmán Olga: It'll be fun!]] Since when the Brussels bureaucrats came up with this agreement, despite the agreement in Versailles, I say once again, 27 European Heads of State and Government agreed that energy should not be affected by sanctions, it was a joint Prime Minister's agreement, and then this agreement was terminated, because of some external pressure, the bureaucrats in the European Union thought that this agreement was not valid, that it was overwritten and that they began to levitate gas, that they began to mention oil sanctions, and because the price of gas was skyrocketed, to which the European Union had also wrongly linked the electricity price, and that it also went sky high. If you look at the evolution of gas or electricity prices in Europe, then the curve is quite clear: last autumn it started to rise somewhat from the earlier low-cost energy price, this happened because of the climate tax it was about to introduce, the market priced the climate tax imposed by the European Union, then there was a rise at the outbreak of the war, and then a fall in the second to third week of the war, the energy price dropped to the previous level, the market got scared, and then it was corrected. And when did the price of gas and electricity really start rising? If you look at the curves, it is quite clear: from the sixth sanction package, the energy sanction package, when the gas sanctions were mixed in, the oil sanctions were rocked, and then Hungary managed to make an exception, since the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary were exempted from the penalties for the oil arriving on the pipeline. It is quite clear that the skyrocketing of the stock exchange price can be seen from the sixth sanction package. So we still do not understand why you support sanctions, why you are pro-sanctions, why you don't finally take sides with the Hungarian economy and the Hungarian people. The current bill is also linked to this issue, as the Hungarian government declared a war emergency due to the Russian-Ukrainian war with effect from 25 May 2022, in order to respond to the security, humanitarian, economic and energy consequences of war in a special legal order with rapid and decisive decision-making and legislation. On 8 June 2022 the Parliament voted in favour of extending the emergency situation by adopting legislation on the elimination of the consequences of armed conflict and humanitarian disaster in Hungary in the neighbouring country. The aim of the legislation was clear: to provide all the necessary means to help refugees and to avoid harmful economic impacts. The current emergency will be effective until 1 November. Under the current regulations, the government's emergency provisions can be extended without a time limit, but a time limit will be introduced under the current amendment that we are discussing. If you wish to be self-identifying and credible politicians, and you have previously demanded a time limit for extending the emergency, then you will support this bill according to all your statements, as you have asked for a time limit. This amendment states that, with effect from 1 November 2022, the Government may request the mandate of the Parliament to extend the emergency beyond 30 days for a maximum period of 180 days. [[12.40]] A similar time limit is also applied to the extension of an emergency, for example in Italy, Latvia and Finland, where this 180-day time limit is included in the legislation. It is important to stress that the government can exercise its emergency powers only in regulatory matters directly related to the prevention, management, eradication and prevention and control of adverse effects. The extension of the emergency legal order maximized in 180 days increases predictable legal certainty and increases the scope and control function of the National Assembly as the main directly elected representative of the people. That is why I ask you to support the bill that we have tabled after we have discussed it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-04-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. I respectfully ask that someone would like to speak on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] Yes, Tamás Vargha, Deputy Minister of State. Here you go.
u2022-10-04-57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, The government supports the submission. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-04-58	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Dr. Boglarka Elijah. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-10-04-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, 222 and this is not the number of the bill, but it is not even the days, hours or minutes of the bill, it is the infinite but infinite moments. 222 is the amount of time that seems to have elapsed since February 24, 2022, which would have been a lot. And when will it end? ! 222 days ago, we had to wake up to the crackling of weapons instead of alarm clocks, to geopolitical landslide instead of clues, to the war next door, instead of peace that seemed to be a blessing to European life. In recent years, we have had to deal with the fluctuating flow of illegal migration, and it is not yet over, with the physical, mental, existential and mental exposure caused by the pandemic and the economic waves surrounding it, and it is not even over. And in spite of our patience, our commitment was disciplined, we worked to find peace, we hoped, but we didn't get it. What appeared earlier as a wave was a dam on 24 February, because what we have next door demands human lives can take families away from other countries of Europe. And we are working, defending, opening an escape route and helping to preserve the safety of our homes and keep the interests of Hungarian families in mind. Because it is easy to talk about gay or lack thereof if everyone can take care of heating, but the European globalists will not stand in line for profit now, they must learn to fight for survival, because we know that in a war there is no winner, on the battlefield there is no distinction between losses and losses. Nevertheless, European leaders welcome sanctions policy rather than peace, calling for resignations instead of solutions, and instead of negotiations, lectures are put on the agenda again and again. And what happens? The sanctions policy with us, the energy prices against us. The aim, of course, is to promote peace and mitigate the consequences of war or sanctions, and so we have announced a national consultation. Because while the left is looking for itself in the shadows, the government does its job: it does not release weapons in the territory of Hungary, protecting the safety of Hungary and the Hungarian people; it also stops sanctions on oil at our borders, while helping refugees. So he takes care of refugees, and the Hungarian families, young people and pensioners are also constantly working to get along. As at the time of previous crises, we had a fence at our house while the door was broken into on Europe; we could choose between vaccines, while elsewhere the waiting was framed; and we already have the reservoirs filled up to a degree that provides heating, while elsewhere they wanted it not to be, and now they're looking at why there won't be any. In such a time of distress, the decisions made in due course are forward - looking, if not literally gold, but at a price of gold. The introduction of the 180-day time limit provides an opportunity to re-assess and consider the momentary situation. This, and the 180 days that span this, is the bill before us, which the Fidesz fraction and I personally can assure you of my support. Please do the same. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-04-60	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mrs Kálmán Olga. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2022-10-04-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, You here on the pro-government side have a bottomless appetite, you prefer to treat public money, EU money, in Hungarian: they steal. But even that's not enough, you're trying to steal the whole country. Nothing is enough for you. What's the emergency for, what's the regulation for? Well, to unlimited power. They alleviate their bottomless hunger for power, and they create an opportunity for themselves to hide behind the real existence of a refugee crisis, a virus or a war situation, eliminate remaining freedom, cement their power, feed and further enrich their oligarchs, buy loss-making telecoms companies, empty the right to strike, make opposition governments impossible. And they're gonna stop it by raging the propaganda machine out of billions, using lies to explain the country's robbing, and to further poison the soul of society. Stealing money, you know, criminal category. Stealing country, freedom, democracy is a historical sin. What you're doing to your country will be on the pages of history. [[Dr. László Pósán: That's right, in 2006...]] What do you need an emergency for, regulation governance? To further stimulate the unrest in this country. 12 years ago, money, not our money, was spent hundreds of billions to turn Hungarian against Hungarian. It is also difficult to list the need to hate everyone in this country, who has become enemies with public money and government control. He was attacked with hate propaganda by philosophers, law enforcement pensioners, beneficiaries of disability benefits, civil society organisations, teachers, gays, refugees, CEU, University of Acting Arts, Academy of Sciences, opposition authorities. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Sure!]] And if we're out of enemy subjects at home, they're looking for us outside the border. So he became a threat to the world from evil Brussels, Juncker or Soros. We were just rushing our heads about who we should hate more, who we should hate more in the billion-dollar hate campaigns we spent on our own money. Now, of course, there is something else that has not only been a hit in the last 12 years, but has since Fidesz sought to gain or retain power, and that is to incite the hatred of the opposition camp. You think everyone who isn't fidesz is a traitor. Once, just once, ask yourself, who is it who is acting against the country? He's friends with eastern dictators; he's fighting against our own elected EU community; he's turning Hungarian against Hungarian [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Cross-border?]] And in the meantime, are you going to cut the public fortunes by thousands of billions, or are you going to fight this one? The fact is that your policy is based on one thing: if everyone hates everyone, then it is good for you, because they can explain and blame all their stupid actions; because they can say every day that you are not the cause of world record inflation, you are not the reason for the low wages, you are not the reason for the critical health care, the state of education, you are not the reason why you are running away from this country, young doctor, nurse, mason, house painter, but Brussels, Soros and the opposition. That's what they're saying out of public money. And if you've heard enough of the billions of public money through your propaganda machine, sooner or later, you're going to engrave in the soul of society who the actual enemy is, and we can't live the way we could otherwise live. Enemy, danger, emergency is the basis of your policy. [[12.50]] That's what it's all about, and that's how they cover up all the misdeeds they've done against the country. You often mention that your country is above all. Yeah, well, if they see public money, they want to take it home right away. But it'll all be over someday. It's true, we've already paid too much for it. We Democrats think differently than you do. We don't think politics is for keeping power. We believe that political decisions are not made during the night, above the heads of the people, but with the involvement of those involved. Guess what? There's a simple way to do this: you have to talk to people. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Consultation!]] to negotiate with those involved, and then to make decisions. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: In the kötchei pub.]] I know this is a stranger to you. And I also know that this is the philosophy of Klára Dobrev's shadow government: not hate and enemy, but attention and understanding. That's what we're sworn to do, and you're sworn to a constant feud. But let's consider what you need the emergency for, the rule of law. To keep their oligarchs fattened. Amazingly, even during the critical period of the Covid epidemic, when the economy went into deep flight, when hundreds of thousands of people lost their jobs when hundreds of thousands of families were destroyed, even taking advantage of the emergency opportunity, they spent money with both hands on their own pals and oligarchs. Viktor Orbán's favourite stróman, Lőrinc Mészáros, has won tens of billions from the state for tourism development and training. Is that what the regulation government was for under Covid? The Orbán residence in the palace in Buda had more than 7 billion forints. Obviously, it is important for the Prime Minister to welcome the dictator's friends in the Castle in a worthy manner. Well, is that what the regulation government was for under Covid? The hunting exhibition, marked by Zsolt Semjén's name, was so important that even in the midst of the coronal virus epidemic, it was worth nearly HUF 2 billion. But there was also money for Lajos Kósa's hobby, a billion skating rinks. Is that what the regulation government under Covid was for? ! Two years ago, 80 billion forints of public money was transferred from the funds called economic defence to the Belgrade-Budapest railway line, the construction of which we mortals on earth did not know much about, since the contracts were encrypted, and the project now seems to fall. Well, is that what the regulation government was for under Covid? They also tried to catch the teachers' mouths using the emergency, making their right to strike impossible. Thus, they can continue to fight with civil disobedience for their right. And for that, what is there to pay in the world of Orbán? Fired. If there's a reason, you should be ashamed of yourself. Well, that's what you needed regulation to do. And the most disgusting thing is that billions of people were dumped on propaganda in the middle of the Covid crisis, giant posters, a lie called national consultation, just so they didn't have to face reality. Have citizens registered in the epidemiological record been sent false political propaganda? What kind of government, in the middle of a pandemic, spends money on polishing itself, propaganda, handing out money to its buddies? ! A responsible government does not deal with how to secure its power, but with helping the Hungarian people in substance. Hungary can trust that Klára Dobrev's shadow government was created for this purpose. Now, what do you need emergency and regulation for? To try to cover up their poor economic policy and how to use EU money. If you weren't thinking of stealing for a few days, keeping their power, it would be better, but I wouldn't ask you to do that. They led the country into an unprecedented economic and livelihood crisis. Hungary is a world record in food growth, inflation growth. Even though there's a rumor that there's no public funding like this anywhere, that's just not true. They've destroyed the country in 12 years. You continue to hope that once you get the EU funds, you will finally have something to steal from again. Now that the Orbán government needs EU money, it suddenly turns out that it is not so much a European solution that the emergency, the special categories of legal order, can be proclaimed and extended again and again without any time limit. Máté Kocsis' bill now seeks to remedy this illegal behaviour by asking the government to extend the emergency for a maximum of 180 days. Only he can do that every time. You can't even really believe what you're asking. With reference to the war in Ukraine, the government can extend the emergency to the end of time, practically without valid justification. This proposal is nothing more than a new step by the government towards full power, uncontrollable, as it has been before. I do not want to disappoint you, but there is no need for the 135 brave Members of the Fidesz, because Viktor Orbán is the only one who decides. You guys here are completely unnecessary from Orbán's point of view. As I said, however, in the current situation, a responsible government would not focus on how to secure its power, but on helping the Hungarian people in substance. Compared to that, you guys just stopped cutting the rent, the kata. As a result of their insane economic policy and money distribution, they generated record inflation, making Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises and families even more difficult. To rule and rob everything is your philosophy. For seven years, the crisis caused by mass immigration has been prolonged. Over two years ago, they gave themselves the unprecedented authority to declare an emergency. Since then, it has become entirely clear that Orbán is not using this instrument to serve the national interests, but to hide behind the threat of the epidemic or war, to eliminate freedom, to cement its power, to further enrich its oligarchs, to acquire a loss-making telecommunications company, to restrict the rights of the opposition, to make opposition authorities impossible. Well, the world has never seen a government declare a war emergency, and then the Prime Minister immediately goes to sea for a month to sail, sunbathe, grow a beard, while his country has a war emergency. To be precise, if the world has seen such a thing, then that Prime Minister was immediately driven away by the wrath of the people. So get ready, Prime Minister. This immeasurable cynicism and theft will not be thanked by the Hungarians. In this disgusting, money-hungry, democracy-killing game, the Democratic Coalition is not to be expected or counted on. We do not support your proposal. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2022-10-04-62	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is István Simicskó, Head of Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2022-10-04-63	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, We can safely say that this century is now becoming a century of unexpected dangers, challenges, threats, and even wars. We may also agree that, unfortunately, world peace has not broken out, and we can even agree that the international situation is increasing. We see many signs of this, since a sad and indeed prolonged war in our neighbourhood is raging with many, many victims, and a sister war is raging, which makes this series of events even sadder. Ladies and gentlemen, I listened to the speakers before me with great attention and great respect. And may I say, although it is the government's job to respond primarily to the speeches, to say that Olga Kálmán, whom I used to visit in InfoRádio, did many interviews with me, and I think with many of us, she sees the world a little differently than we do. [[Kálmán Olga: Not small!]] We may see it very differently, you're right. They may also believe me that the Fidesz-KDNP government has not launched a flood of migration towards Europe. You may also believe that we have nothing to do with the Covid epidemic, because we didn't do research in laboratories of this type. And if the rumors about the release of the Covid virus are true, the news about the release of the Covid has caused a pandemic, has taken the lives of millions and millions of people, and has caused many, many, many serious diseases for our fellow humans, it is very interesting to make a parentheses comment that, for example, the UN or any major international organization has not set up any investigation committee to find out who, for what purpose and why they are working on such a virus. And why didn't, say, the cancer-healing virus escape from one of the biological labs? But that's just a sad, parenthesis comment, because my father was taken by Covid. So, in the world, we would have something to do, just to make the world better and better. So I would like to return to safety, because security is a fundamental human need. [[13.00]] Abraham Maslow, who created a hierarchy of human needs, built people's need for safety to the second most important level after physiological needs. For this security, everything must be done, everything must be done for peace, and it is our job, Hungarian representatives, that we guarantee the safety of Hungarian people. Therefore, we have always had a clear and clear position, and it will be that we are on the side of peace. We want there to be peace everywhere in the world, especially where there is a war going on right now. As far as the legislative amendment is concerned, it is intended to coordinate defence and security activities. So we need to give appropriate response to the current and repeated crises in the rule of law. We must give democratic, state-of-law responses, and this can only be done through legislation. And if we have a task in the Fundamental Law and the Fundamental Law regulates the special legal order in detail, and we can see further in fundamental laws that the executive power and defence organizations, the police forces, the Hungarian Defence Forces, the epidemiological authorities, I think it is right that we in Parliament are responding to these crises and responding to the challenges that we have faced. (The President's seat is Dóra Dúró, Vice-President of the Parliament.) And, yes, we're giving you state-of-the-art answers, we're discussing it in Parliament. And you have asked, indeed, that the emergency be regulated in such a way that there is a time limit, not an infinite mandate. Although I would add, in parentheses, that, if we think about it, I must say that Parliament and the government have rightly declared all the emergencies that preceded this, both during the epidemic and during the initial period of the migration crisis, but these are all legislative provisions, which were indeed necessary for the proper public bodies to be able to carry out their work with sufficient authority. And obviously, the government reports and informs us, that's what it does all the time, and that's what it does, and that's what it does here in Parliament and in committee. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó intervenes.]] We know that the current special rule of law will soon change, as we know that in the case of the six special acts of law contained in the Fundamental Law, the emergency situation, the emergency situation, the preventive defense situation, the terrorist attack or the terrorist threat, and the unexpected attack, the parliamentary assembly at the time of the change of regime fundamentally modified the case of the XX. by law and three special circumstances in the legal order, and by then we called all of this classified periods. Here is the war situation, so the state of emergency was in the old constitution earlier, the state of emergency, which is the internal rebellion to bring about the constitutional overthrow of the internal order, in order to put it simply, and the emergency, which was essentially designed for natural and industrial disasters. But, well, the disaster law also included the rules on the epidemic situation, and on this basis the government was able to declare an emergency in its defense against the epidemic. Now there's another conflict in our neighborhood, a military-armed conflict. By the way, the case of the unexpected attack was modified during the Yugoslav War by the then parliament, and the preventive defence situation was introduced to the constitutional level in 2004, when the general military obligation was lifted by the majority parliament or government of MSZP-SZDSZ, then such a new clause was introduced, under the name of the preventive defence situation. So it's a simple amendment to the law, which basically sets a deadline, that the government can announce for 30 days. The extension of this may then extend to 180 days, which is obviously accepted and confirmed by the Parliament. We believe that this bill is still in place internationally, so I would also ask you to consider and support the proposal itself. Let me also say a few words about the war itself: it is indeed a prolonged war, since it has now been on since February 24th. This is a specific period in the history of mankind, because we see that technology and technology have changed and evolved in recent years to such a degree that we often say that today we can war with all means, at least force will upon and influence different countries of destination, because information can be transmitted through the virtual world, and even a great deal of false and false information and misleading information can be transmitted to people. This is a hybrid warfare, which has a specific proxy version, because the proxy war is just two great powers pushing two smaller states at each other and collapsing. Here Ukraine, the people of Ukraine and the people of Ukraine suffer, so we hope, of course, that security and peace require strength, but perhaps not a little wisdom would harm the world, more wisdom for the leaders of the United States, more wisdom for the Russian and Ukrainian leadership, and I wish for the wisdom of Salamon to everyone who is now a dominant player. The only thing Hungary can add is that it has helped more than 1.5 million people fleeing Ukraine fleeing the war, and it will continue to hold on and stand and call on the parties to peace. The fact is, unfortunately, a local war has created a global conflict, which many people are already calling a specific Third World War. If I look at the hybrid character, then this definition may be appropriate, because there is a real struggle in the financial, diplomatic and economic fields, and in this way they are trying to influence the war parties. In the United States, a leading scientist, Viktor Frankl, claimed and wrote that if we arrived in the United States, we would meet with a huge, beautiful statue, a statue of freedom on the East Coast; it would be good, and it would be time to erect an even more monumental statue on the West Coast by the politicians of the United States, and this would be a statue of responsibility. So I think we all have our own responsibility in this situation. I believe that we will do well and rightly by supporting the legislative amendment proposal before us. Thank you very much, KDNP supports. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-10-04-64	Welcome, fellow Members. Among the keynote speakers is the representative of the MSZP, Mr Tamás Harangozó. I give you the floor, please.
u2022-10-04-65	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, What is this proposal about? After all, in the expozee and in several speeches before me, my fellow Members were quite far off, which, of course, they have every right to do, but let us face it, this is, after all, a piece of a rabbit's tail, perhaps a page or a half of a bill, which has one important point to tie it to a time limit for declaring an emergency; I would add, we could say at last. The time limit is 180 days, which means six months, and we are not satisfied at all, but before I go into the details, let us remember a little bit what was going on, perhaps not in this Chamber, but in the other Chamber when the Covid threat was announced. It wasn't that long ago, you were personally involved in this scene, and so were we. The only thing we asked for when the Covid outbreak introduced the emergency to have a time limit. This has been submitted in a textual amendment proposal, and we asked that it be accepted that an extraordinary legal order can be introduced in Hungary for 90 days, as were the previous constitutional rules, and that the Parliament will review this after 90 days. Fellow Members! Then we were everything but white people: we were traitors, we were destroyers of everything, we became friends of Covid. What just happened? So you've become a friend of Covid and a traitor? You can't keep blowing with one mouth in two, ladies and gentlemen. It wasn't two years ago, once again, when we were taken to everything in this House because we dared to say what you have just submitted here. Not exactly that, by the way, and once again, I'm not satisfied, but from the point of view that this has to be tied to a time limit, you said, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Obviously, the omniscient father will know when to stop the emergency restrictions, there is no need for Parliament or the law to interfere! No one can be given unlimited power for any reason, period. And let me not give you historical examples and historical political leaders who thought and felt that this was what they had here in Europe, either east of us or west of us; crazy, unnormal dictators, whose political leadership killed millions or tens of millions of people, and only one with an unlimited political mandate had no other end than this. Therefore normal, civilized people of a normal, civilized country do not give, with the best intention, unlimited power to anyone, either in terms of content or time limits. [[13.10]] The six-month deadline in this proposal, which can then be extended for as long as possible, is practically not a time limit, let's face it. For our part, we are going to try again to see if there is any insight or insight in Fidesz, perhaps because of international circumstances, for example, this proposal has been submitted. In our opinion, the 90 days that the Hungarian constitutional arrangement had used before it were entirely satisfactory, because as we know, you know, and you certainly know, this is an extraordinary legal order, and it cannot be a continuous state of affairs. With this regulation, you can maintain it again for years, and I don't think that's good. Suppose, sooner or later, there will be another government in this country, there must also be a limit, no matter what the period. That's what Mr. Simicsko wrote his degree from. [[Dr. István Simicskó: PhD...]] I mean, from the extraordinary legal order, back in the good old days, I'm guessing. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Which old...?]] Not in this one, what you just said. Mr. Simichko, what we have right now, it doesn't correspond to that or that, and you know it. This is not an extraordinary legal order, which is the principle. You haven't been you for two and a half years, because obviously you haven't, and none of you are a member of the government running this country by regulation. Kálmán Olga has listed several things that make it absolutely clear how abusive these tools are used. But they can do it anyway, because they made rules like that. This is not normal, my fellow Member, and the fate of that country, the right of teachers to strike, we can go over what one person wants to do. 'Cause that's what it is today. 'Cause how was it today? I'm about to think about the last one, which is not a political, specifically economic issue. But what is it again that on the night of September 30th a decree is thrown out to increase the cost of district heating 13 times from the next morning? At night, a decree will be issued, for which neither district heating companies, municipalities, businesses, nobody can prepare, and everyone is guaranteed to go to waste because they can't afford it. How would they know? Local governments are budgetary bodies, unable to print money like Mr Matolcsy. But the companies won't be able to match it. It's regulation, it's not normal. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Bitcoin miner in DK... There's a lot of information in KDNP's ranks.]] Very funny, indeed, my fellow Member, very funny subject. Go and look those people in the eye who are going to have to decide whether or not the kindergarten will have to be closed. And look into the eyes of someone who, as head of the nursing home, should decide what's going to happen to him. So don't laugh, don't joke about it, because there's nothing funny about it. Such legal orders, once again, must be limited in substance and in time, whoever governs this country. For our part, we continue to say that such a mandate can be granted for a single 90-day period, and if it is still justified, if there is still an emergency after three months, the government can re-proclaim it, bring the reasons before Parliament, and if it is still justified, it will be able to receive it again for the next 90-day period if it is justified. In this respect, I can agree with Kálmán Olga's speech, this is 180 days, and that we extend it as many times as we want, it is practically a... I told you 90 was a one-time deal. That's what we're gonna submit, and then you're gonna see what you're gonna do. [[Dr. István Simicskó: Can't 90 be extended? Nacsa Lőrinc: Is the war over? Dr. István Simicskó intervenes.]] It's okay, by the way, we can go to the cafeteria and talk in private, but if you want, say it in a microphone, and then I'll be happy to answer. The war didn't end, so it could be extended if there's a reason. I could also list the questions that we have heard here, why you go to the Croatian coast for a month in a huge war emergency. [[To Nacsa Lőrinc:]] But don't wag your head. It's an emergency! Well, let's not make a clown out of this institution. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Haven't you been on vacation?]] If there's a war emergency, I'm not going to babysit for a month. Oh, no, the pictures show that the Prime Minister worked very hard. And what they did under Covid wasn't normal either, but again, let's go back to the law, and I'll close it. In our view, the 90-day authorisation under the old constitutional arrangement or rules may be justified, because there are situations where the government needs to take immediate and much wider action than in normal times. So far, there's no argument between us. As we said two years ago that this should be 90 days, we say it now, and it is possible to introduce it once. We will present this to an amending proposal. I can see your openness, but as soon as you answer that, we will also respond in the vote. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of MSZP, DK and Momentum.]]
u2022-10-04-66	Now it's time for the lead speaker of the Momentum Group. I give the floor to Congressman Szabó Szabolcs. Here you go.
u2022-10-04-67	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. My fellow Members have said many things, so I can significantly shorten what I have planned. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to start with the bill, and I'd like to talk a little bit about things that aren't really relevant to it. I've heard crickets and bugs say everything in this debate. So, let's start with the point. Indeed, we have here a very simple proposal to regulate the emergency situation, namely that the unlimited extension so far is bound by this proposal to a limit of 180 days, which can be repeated, so that it can be re-introduced again and again. Indeed, this has been constantly signalled from the opposition side that unlimitedness is not a rule of law. Indeed, as has been said here, already during the Covid epidemic, at the beginning of the spring of 2020, or in a meteorological sense at the end of the winter, when the first such emergency was announced, this was indicated. By the way, even on 10 May this year, when we were arguing in this House about a constitutional amendment and the introduction into the legal order of the laws of the Covidian emergency at that time, we also indicated that this unlimitedity was not good for a few months ago. Even then, they said they wouldn't accept our arguments. So what we can say for our part is that we can only be happy that after about two and a half years we have come to the point where you can see it, and in the explanatory statement, they have practically written in what we have always said, that this kind of unlimitedness is not typical in international practice, and accordingly some time limit has to be included. So all I can say is that it took two and a half years, but they accepted it, they put it in there, which is why we can only support it on our part. Obviously, in a bill, there are always parts that people like and don't like. Here, for example, we think that instead of 180 days, it would be better to set a 90 - day limit. We will also present a related amendment in this regard. Our amendment, unlike the MSZP, does not take out the repetition, so I can only indicate that it might be considered. It would be more appropriate for my taste and Momentum's taste if we could always talk about this extension here on a three-month basis, because it sounds great, as Mr Simicskó said here, how regularly we get reports of decisions made during an emergency, but it is not exactly the case because it does not happen here or in front of the committee. At the extension, there is always a debate at the re-release, and when, at the end of the emergency, we put it in the legal order or instead of covidos, we talk about the war emergency, not when the government thinks it's going to give a report on what it's done, say, in the last 30 days. That's not what we've heard here or at committee meetings. So it's not quite as Congressman Simicskó said. So that's why I suggest you consider 90 days, I think that's an acceptable proposal. In parentheses, however, if you do not accept it, we will vote for the amendment of the law for 180 days, because we can live with it, but we would prefer 90 days. [[13.20]] The other, which I propose to consider, which the opposition has often mentioned in the last two and a half years, is a lack of control. [[Sic!]] I don't know, they were looking at the numbers, we looked at them. For example, the number of government regulations in 2019 was 371, 732, 832, in 2021, and this year we do not know yet, according to my preliminary tips, we will see another growing number. This increase is, of course, in a significant part because, under the authority of the emergency, the government makes certain regulations, which, by virtue of its law, overrides a large number of laws. Our problem is that, although it is in the law and in the Constitution, the government can make such decrees in the case in question, so if there is an epidemiological emergency, then in the case of protection against the epidemic, if I now say it in a simplified manner, in such war-related cases. We only find in daily practice that a lot of government decrees have nothing to do with this in the whole world. So, in a technical sense, they are using this option, and that is why we are proposing that they consider having control to decide who is right. Because right now, no one can decide because there's nowhere else to turn. You say it's connected, we say it's not, and then it's done, the debate is over. In any case, we have already tabled such a legislative amendment proposal before, and it will, of course, be over-extensive as an associated amendment, but there is no other way to solve it, so as an associated amendment, we will again submit that there should be a constitutional control. For example, today, in the EU's compromise package, we voted today on a constitutional norm control; well, a special version of this could be used. We propose that if a parliamentary representative or a group of Members thinks that the government decree goes beyond the scope of the law, so that the government abuses the right of emergency, then they can appeal to the Constitutional Court, who are obliged to look at and decide within three days whether or not they have expanded beyond their options, whether or not the decision is related to the war emergency at the moment. I think that this is an acceptable compromise proposal, and then there is not even the question that I think we are right now, and in the last two and a half years we have been asking regularly and rightly that, indeed, they are expanding beyond their potential, and we are actually living in a period of regulation governance, because unfortunately that is the case. So, these are our two comments or amendments to the law. Here I would like to comment on what has been said so far in the second, minor part of my speech, which is no longer directly related to the amendment of the law. On the one hand, not in chronological order, but in polite order, I would like to say that Congresswoman Elijah began by saying 222, then I would also say a number: 74. When we were sitting here on 10 May, I was in the same place, you were in the same place, when this whole, so to speak, war emergency was inserted into the legal order, and there was a debate on 10 May, then I mentioned the number 74, how is it that during the 74th day of the war we were talking about the need for such an emergency. Why not the second day or the tenth day, because the war had long gone on? And then I said in the debate that it was clear that the basis for the covidian emergency had actually ceased to exist, and that something had to be created quickly, with which they could declare an emergency again, because they were used to the good governance of the regulation. You said then that I see horrors, it's just a technical opportunity, maybe if it turns out that way. 14 days passed, on 24 May we voted here in this House, not we, you voted in favour of bringing this into the legal order, and that day, it was not three hours after the vote, that day there was a government decision on it, and the next day, on 25 May, it came into force. So that's what we keep saying, that it's not elegant and that it's abusive in many ways. And I'm telling you, this is also the case with regulation governance. Everyone can see it, and the blind can see it happening. I said, you have to look at the number of regulations you've made. There's an order of conduct. The other thing I wanted to note is that Congressman Nacsa mentioned the sanctions here for a long time. I wrote myself down on purpose, and he managed to get to the point of law-modification in the 12th minute, because before that, he talked about everything else. So, the very alternative reasoning system is that we blame faulty sanctions for the increase in the price of a product that is not otherwise subject to sanctions. If someone tells me where the logic is, I'll buy you ladies and a beer, maybe a cocktail. Obviously, if there is no sanction for gas, it is difficult to say that the penalty is expensive. I would point out that gas is expensive because the Russians in this war situation use it as a weapon, in Hungarian, closing on the faucet. Because, right, the market works with demand and supply, the ratio between demand and supply determines what the price of a product is, plus, obviously, political and economic uncertainty can still drive up the price. So, when the Russians start a war against their neighbors, against an independent country, he's causing uncertainty, so he's responsible, so he's started to invade a neighbouring country, plus he's starting to close the taps, and he's holding back demand. What's happening? The price is going up. There was no sanctions then, there is no sanctions now, and we do not know that it will be sanctioned for natural gas, because there is still a debate and consultation between the leaders of the Member States of the European Union. That is why I said that this is an alternative solution, because Gazprom's turnover was also mentioned here, because Gazprom is selling gas, so it is difficult to blame the sanction on this from now on. The third thing I wrote to myself was a lack of continuous information from the government, what was said here, but I said this once before in my speech. So, in conclusion, I can say once again that we agree with the proposal itself, we will vote for it, because we think its direction is right, because they have taken what we said before. At the most, I would ask that we take 180 days off to 90 and consider the introduction of constitutional control. Thank you very much.
u2022-10-04-68	We now have a keynote speech from the Jobbik Group: I am speaking to Mr László György Lukács. Here you go.
u2022-10-04-69	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, It is important to state immediately at the beginning of the speech and here in Parliament today that the current bill is yet another proof that Viktor Orbán is steering this country from an emergency to an emergency. We've been seeing this for years, and it's been hard for him to figure out another way of law. The country's setting up is an emergency, it is rightly said by the people, and as funny as it seems, it is actually a tragedy in terms of what justice is in Hungary, and what kind of central state the party's image is. Governance from an emergency to an emergency raises a fundamental question: is this really the most appropriate legal instrument, that is to say, the declaration of an emergency, to address current challenges, that is, that there is a war going on in Hungary's neighbourhood, in which the Russian aggressor attacked an independent nation, wants to take away its energy sources, so the Russian aggressor uses more of its own energy sources for blackmail, and thus puts Europe and the world in a position to choose between which hand to bite? It is clear that the most important way and the straight way could be peace. The Russians have work to do, they have to back off; on the one hand, peace can be achieved by persuading, forcing the Russians, sanctions and other means, so let's not put it aside. You say that no sanctions are working. The sanctions are working. And when we talk about the emergency situation, we also need to say that we see the damage caused by all these sanctions. So it is not so simple to put it this way, that the governing parties say everything, deny that it causes the Hungarian people pain, and that it puts the government, the local governments, civil society organisations, and even individuals in a difficult situation, under pressure to make decisions. [[13.30]] It must also be said that, beyond the fact that we all suffer the damage, it is in our primary and most important interest to bring peace. It must also be said: in order for peace to be possible, the Russians must leave the occupied territories Russians, home! The question here is who dares to say this, my fellow Members of the Fidesz, is that they are Russians, home. 'Cause you said that earlier, but now it seems like you're going for advice and ideas all the time. Yesterday, we heard from you that whoever pays the musician orders the music. The thing is, when you go out there and act like a ruble government, that's what we're up against: if the Russians pay the musician, you'll be listening to a Russian song. But to talk a little bit about the emergency: this is the good thing about this basic situation, we take the view that it is not. All the current legal instruments available in Hungary provide an opportunity to protect Hungary's territorial integrity, security, internal and external security, energy security and ensure the livelihood of the Hungarian people and help them in crisis. This does not require, in your way, an extension of the emergency in this way. I know you're using this device, and you're liking it, and you're using it now. You remember the sentence: Viktor Orbán governs the country from an emergency to an emergency. But now is the time, and this is the debate where you need to draw your attention to the fact that this is not the case. It doesn't work because it's regular, and it was a legitimate criticism of the lack of reporting. It is not a report when Viktor Orbán tells the events that took place in the summer or before the previous session. Nor is it really a report when questions can be asked in a committee in a one-minute or two-minute time frame for a report of about 20 minutes, which is good for once a year when it comes to committees during ordinary ministerial hearings or reports. And that is certainly not a way to report what Miklós Kásler did during the plague. Miklós Kásler had the guts not to come to the committee during the outbreak, but to send in a two-page statement of what they had done. This was the report by one of the responsible ministers of the government responsible for health, the most important defence. That's how seriously you took it. This also supports the fact that there is a fundamental issue in order to order an emergency. And you can agree with what my fellow Members have said, that if there is a time limit and you have acknowledged that a time limit is needed, then it is worth considering this lifelike 90 days that many people have said here. Allow me to bring you a relatively difficult-to-get problem, but I think it is very understandable. Exceptional legal systems, the emergency, always make it difficult for people to find out about the laws that are binding on them. And the more complicated it is, the more regulations there are, the less well it can be, and let's just say that it is confident to know what rules apply to individual businesses, private people, companies and how long they apply. However, if one cannot determine the right or obligation to apply to himself, it is very difficult to ask him for a law-abiding attitude. This is why it is called an extraordinary legal order that, in exceptional cases, it is used for a very limited period of time, in very justified cases, because it constantly undermines the possibility of following the law and the law. The fact that there are various regulations around the clock, who knows how long they have been extended, at some point or another, and the government agencies representing the executive power are no longer aware of the time limit and the rule applicable to them, this is caused by the constant provision, extension and renewal of the emergency, when I say that other and the legal instruments available in the ordinary legal order would be there to address a crisis or some sort of security or economic challenge facing the country. So, overall, this is what must always be said in relation to the emergency and its extension, and it would be time for them to quit, and as a responsible conservative politician, I can suggest that we do not finally govern the country in an emergency. In a normal legal order, this country is able to create its defence, it is able to protect people and families in a time of economic crisis, that's all you have to want. That's what a decent conservative attitude would be like. We are asking you, although we have illusions about this, because we know it is a political product for you to finally do so and to govern accordingly. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2022-10-04-70	Now it's time for the lead speaker of our country's group, Novák Előd. I give you the floor.
u2022-10-04-71	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, We do not support the new world order, the restriction of our freedoms, the changing, but continuous, extraordinary laws, the Covid dictatorship and other Covid-type closures, or restrictions, which now, drifting to the edge of the state bankruptcy, constitute the closure of fundamental institutions in Hungary due to the increase in overhead. There is no legal order, no justice, but there is no legal service in Hungary. With this legislative amendment, they want to conceal disproportionate restrictions on the rights, but it is unacceptable that, instead of an unlimited emergency, there can be 180 days of disenfranchisation. Is that what we're supposed to be happy about? ! It did not support the amendment of the basic law aimed at extending the emergency situation, even when the government tried to expand its capacity to maintain a special legal order by referring to war situations in neighbouring countries. After the corona virus, you're obviously looking for a new way to keep people in extraordinary legal order and within limits, but we're going to highlight the depravity of it. For example, the announcement of the war situation means armed preparations, and it also has a very bad diplomatic message. Instead, a government decision allowing foreign NATO combat groups to enter Hungary should be withdrawn, because making our country an area of military march is a real emergency for our country. After allowing the deployment of foreign NATO troops into our country in the framework of the US-Russian war, despite the government's earlier promise, our country remained the only party to speak out in favour of Hungary's independence. Foreign forces do not belong in Hungary, Hungary belongs to the Hungarians. Our contractual obligation from our NATO membership would only help to protect it if a Member State was attacked, but Ukraine is not a NATO member. I also oppose the military support of Ukraine, which pursues a repressive, chauvinist policy against the Hungarian national part of Transcarpathia, and the Hungarian government service of American interests. The embargo against the Russians has already caused invaluable damage to the Hungarian economy, especially to Hungarian agriculture, which was unfortunately supported by the Hungarian government without a word. Now, however, the Hungarian interest should be the first. The Hungarian government will no longer provoke the Russians, for example by supporting Ukraine's unconditional accession to the EU, as it has already been rocked, or even by expanding NATO and maintaining a war emergency, with military preparation. Today, the lead speaker of Fidesz said that the government does not allow weapons to pass through the territory of Hungary. This is not true, of course, but it is true, at the very least, with the blundering, the masturbation that does not allow weapons to pass through the Hungarian-Ukrainian border, but through Romania and Slovakia, through other NATO Member States, the weapon can go through the territory of Hungary according to the current government decision. So what the government is doing is a bit of a hoax; while it seems to be putting peace on its flag, for example, the commander of the Hungarian Defence Forces secretly visited the Ukrainian Joint Chiefs of Staff in July. We only heard about this from Ukrainian news. The head of the armed forces there said that he was satisfied with the level of military cooperation between Ukraine and Hungary. Well, what else does he know that our government doesn't know about us? Since then, the Baltic airspace has been once again provided to Hungarian Gripes, and they are already in conflict with Russian fighters. [[13.40]] Well, so much for Hungary not participating in the war. Unfortunately, that's not true. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: That's how it's been for ten years!]] They pass on the baton among the various emergencies; they are now following a Covid dictatorship, new Covid-type closures, similar swimming pool closures. We have seen government abuse and counterproductive measures in the Covid dictatorship before, and let us think of extortion when trying to improve vaccination statistics. But we can also mention counterproductive, extraordinary legal measures such as the closure of swimming pools or early lockdowns when virtually crowded customers in shorter opening hours. But you couldn't run after the night of the lay-down, and I couldn't tell you more. These restrictions were amazing, which, of course, we did not leave without saying. In fact, let's be fair, there was also a leftist thinker who spoke out. I am thinking of András Schiffer here, because he has repeatedly drawn attention to the maladministration that, even under the Fundamental Law, it would not be possible, even in a special legal order, to suspend fundamental rights or to limit them to the necessary, proportionate extent, which has been done. That's why we went to the Constitutional Court. But as long as only members of Fidesz are present in the Constitutional Court and independent thinkers such as András Schiffer, mentioned above, so that I do not now highlight our own lawyer in our most direct lunar court, but in the system of national cooperation there would normally be right- and left-wing thinkers in the Constitutional Court, not party soldiers. It is not from this Parliament that we should walk from the Fidesz or KDNP faction to a member of the Constitutional Court. I don't think this is the right procedure. There is no legal certainty in this sense, no guarantee of our freedoms can be found in a special legal order. And speaking of András Schiffer, may I quote him, as he said that the democratic opposition had placed this in a quotation mark, the current opposition would only be called democratic, so the democratic opposition asked for more and longer restrictions on the illiberal government instead of the state of the rule of law. It's about the Covid dictatorship, isn't it? András Schiffer adds that the two sides killed each other with a primitive death campaign, while the complete Hungarian political elite minus Mi Hazank said András Schiffer walked away with the basic questions of the biggest global shock in the last three quarters of the century. 'Cause that's what this is about, an amazing-sized legal restriction. And although the Hungarians have always been a freedom-loving people, let's just think about the young people of March 48, the Pest boys of '56, and in 2006 we were also working for our freedoms, which the left-wing politicians at that time were not shadows, but, unfortunately, in real government, and even in blood, they were crushing our rights of liberty at that time, but we do not allow our freedoms to be limited by even more presentable methods, even in a legal way. That is why we do not support this bill, and if necessary, in order to protect our freedoms, we are ready to go back to the streets against the Covid dictatorship and the Covid type of newer and newer closures, restrictions and closures. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-10-04-72	Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We now have two-minute speeches. First up was Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP representative. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2022-10-04-73	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Congressman Novak what the problem is. How do you feel limited, honourable Member? You can't go wherever you want right now, you can't say what you want, you can't do what you want within the legal framework? I understand that the direction of Ákos Hadházy's HVG interview yesterday was raised in the left. He doesn't think all the laws have to be followed. Ákos Hadházy's position was that there are laws that don't necessarily have to be followed. I understand that this kind of aspect in the anarchist left side, this kind of position has come to its head, but once again, honourable Member, where you are restricted. You're constantly talking about being ready to walk the streets against any restrictions. Against what restriction, honourable Member? When the epidemic was handled in this way by all governments around the world during the outbreak of human life threats, it was necessary to impose restrictive measures. By the way, no one loved them, honourable Member, no one wanted them; this was simply the emergency situation. This debate is not about Covid, but Mr Bellozó and Mr Lu-Kács also started and continued with this, and you spoke about the Covid epidemic. Mr Bellozó said that there was one thing you opposition representatives asked the government to do at that time, so that there would be a time limit for declaring an emergency. There was no time limit at the time, and they didn't vote for it. The next time there was a time limit, and you didn't vote for it. So let us not deceive ourselves that, at any time, you have sided with the Hungarian people on this issue, whenever they have given their vote in favour of extending the emergency, because you have not done so even if there was a time limit, and even if there was no time limit. At least we don't have to say things like that in front of the National Assembly. What is said, Congressman Novák, is that you are trying to demo and degrade the performance of soldiers serving in the Baltic States, as well as those who participate in any other NATO mission, I also challenge it on behalf of Hungarian soldiers. The heroic people who have not been there since the Russian-Ukrainian war, but have been there for a long time defending the airspace and performing their service, can only be spoken in the highest of respect. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-04-74	The next two-minute novak predecessor, representative of our country. Here you go.
u2022-10-04-75	Dear Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, Don't speak for the soldiers, please, and of course don't try to distort what I have to say. The very shame that you are doing to the Hungarian soldiers is sending them to Afghanistan, Iraq and other occupations, because they can only receive fair remuneration if they are engaged in military service in foreign occupations. Only if they are willing to participate in these occupations will they qualify for advancement above a certain level. It is quite a shame that, instead of enlisting the Hungarians against the Afghans on the Hungarian border, for example, they will lead them to foreign occupations with sufficient force and even fire orders to protect their country, ignoring the demands of the young men of March 48. (In the notary seat Dr. István Tiba Replaced by Attila Gelencsér.) And what restrictions we have: of course there are, there have been, and unfortunately there will be. I also mentioned what seems to have passed your ear about the amazing restrictions on rights that were primarily imposed during the Covid dictatorship, when, for example, Hungarian people were blackmailed by taking jobs, ignoring their right to self-determination in health. And I could also tell you that the 21st century... In the 20th century, what basic institutions are now being closed on the basis of an increase in public debt against government promises. Swimming pools, community spaces shut down, and practically the state doesn't work. Technically, it is a state failure, since partial insolvency is also a state failure definition. That's where we've come! With continuous closure and closure, quality of life and standard of living are also getting worse. I think that we do have to face the restrictions. But to give you a whole new example: I had to waste half an hour standing at the foot of the Elizabeth Bridge today because of the closure of a TEK caravan, and I couldn't get to Parliament, to work. And many Hungarian citizens have to suffer restrictions because of such rights of the privileged. We are protesting exactly so that the Covid dictatorship can't be repeated this year. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-10-04-76	Dear Parliament, As no one has applied for a further two-minute speech, we now return to the speeches by their representatives. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, representative of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2022-10-04-77	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Today's debate has also proved that my fellow left-wing Members see the world and reality quite differently. Yeah, we know there are people who have a different sense of reality. They must always be treated with great care and patience. The Gyurcsány-Dobrev couple also see the world differently. In fact, the entire dollar left sees and perceives reality differently. You see dollars, bundles of dollars, sanctions, firing and maiming people's eyes in front of your eyes, but we want to achieve peace. In all of our actions, whether the faction or the government, this is at the heart of our decisions. [[13.50]] The only comforting thing is that for the fourth time the Hungarian people have proved that they do not see reality as you, the representatives of the dollar left, because they have chosen the Fidesz-KDNP government to lead their own lives and the country. In the debate, I would like to respond to one more speech before even giving some substantive thought to the bill. It has been repeatedly suggested that regulation governance has been going on in Hungary for two and a half years. I do not know, fellow Members, you have noticed what has been happening in the world for two and a half years, what is happening in Europe, what is happening in Hungary. Have you noticed that a pandemic has swept all over the world, and we are only hoping that this can be put into a slow past tense? Have you noticed there's a war going on next door? From there people flee, including through Hungary, thousands of times a day. I do not know what you have done so far, what you would like to do, and would have been willing to come into the walls of this House, so that quick decisions can be made. You could have walked this way. If I looked at this debate, I very much doubt that with quick, one-day, half-day debates we would have been able to make decisions every day within the framework of the Parliament that are in the interest of the Hungarian people, certainly not to protect Hungarian lives. It is therefore justified to regulate precisely in the laws the concept of emergency, which has happened. It's not like the government to declare an emergency. It is regulated at a high level, even in the Fundamental Law, in what cases, under what circumstances it is possible to declare an emergency. Order government. When the government ordered an emergency in view of the Covid outbreak, with reference to that, it could only bring in regulations relating to it. You can't change anything with regulations. When there is a war going on next door, you can make rapid decisions about humanitarian aid and the war situation. This is not forever either, because they must be kept alive by the Parliament as long as the Parliament, or you and we together, consider this to be a good thing. Let's not forget that. Regulation governance was quite different before 1990. Then who had a say in how long those decrees would last, and in whose behalf they were born? Ladies and gentlemen, If we look at the original proposal, there has not been much talk about it today, and even in the debate there have been thoughts that, although they support the proposal, some of my fellow Members have allowed themselves a set of 10-15 minutes curses. I must say that the restrictive measure on which this proposal is being tabled is justified and can be supported, i.e. that we limit to 180 days the permit granting the government an emergency authorisation to extend it. Ladies and gentlemen, Our goal is peace. If you're on this party, please don't hide behind billions of dollars or millions of dollars, hide behind sanctions, and don't hide behind Klara Dobrev's skirt. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-10-04-78	Tamás Vargha, Secretary of State, to whom I am giving the floor, on behalf of the government, has submitted a comment. Here you go.
u2022-10-04-79	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Madam President, Dear Parliament, I agree with my colleague, Mónika Dunai, that we should discuss what this proposal is about, the time limit for an emergency, the 180 days that you have previously required to have. Without the need for completeness, I would like to make a few comments, because our fellow Member, Mr President Novák, has said a few thoughts about the Hungarian Defence Forces. Foreign troops are not stationed in Hungary, but together with our allies Hungarian soldiers participate in joint training and joint exercises. Soldiers and weapons do not enter Ukraine through the Hungarian-Ukrainian border; allies can, of course, carry weapons at each other's borders, as included in the government resolution. The commander of the Hungarian Defence Forces, the Lieutenant General, was not secretly in Ukraine and met with the Ukrainian Chief of Staff, which was made public in several places. Of course, in this situation, it was not a pre-arranged visit. Yes, it is not the first time in the Baltic airspace that the Hungarian Defence Office carries out surveillance tasks with its fighters. Airspace police are not the same as air defense, they are not in conflict with aircraft of Russian or other nationality, but, as is customary in Hungary's airspace, in the event that they do not report or fly on the given route, aircraft are properly warned. Hungarian soldiers did not take part in occupations and were not directed to Afghanistan, Iraq, Kosovo or any mission. This is voluntary in Hungary, and Hungarian soldiers do their job well in the missions as well. They also served at the border, still serving together today, still patrolling with our police officers and protecting Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention, and I would like to ask for the debate on what the bill, the proposal, is about. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-10-04-80	I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I'll ask the author if you'd like to answer. [[On the mark of Lőrinc Nacsa:]] Mr Lőrinc Nacsa points out that he wishes to respond on behalf of the authors. I give you the floor, please.
u2022-10-04-81	Thank you very much. Madam President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for everyone who has participated in this debate. I also thank you for the opposition speeches using a number of slides and lies, although it has been quite clear that the only tool on the left is the hat, and there is no story on it. You will attack us if there is no time limit in the emergency, you will attack us if there is a time limit. No matter what we do, you will attack us. We are not accountable to you, but accountable to the Hungarian electorate. On the last four occasions, I think that the Hungarian voters have expressed their confidence in the politics that we represent, towards the political directions that we are trying to represent here in the benches of the Fidesz-KDNP in Parliament and also in the government. (Dávid Dócs in the notary seat) Z. Kárpa is replaced by Daniel.) Your position has become very clear in the last hour, since you deny reality. Just last Monday, Congressman Gurmai Zita said that war, war inflation, is a cheap fidesz trick. That's how you stand on this as if you're ignoring the reality. This was the case with you during the Covid epidemic: when it had to be opened, you demanded closure when it had to be closed, you demanded an opening. That's the way it is in a war situation. You deny reality, deny war inflation, the negative impact of sanctions on the European economy, on European households. Once again, it's your soul to try to be political. I did not respond to the fact that, in Mrs Olga Kálmán's speech, this shadow thing came up on a regular basis. He regularly referred to this as if there was something serious here, I don't know, political and professional capital, which you would use to improve the country. [[14.00]] Well, honourable Member, let the Hungarian nation rejoice as long as these actors are in the shadows and not in real government, let the Hungarian nation rejoice as long as there are only shadow government information and they do not announce real decisions! I see last week's shadow steering session was stressful, it's already been canceled this week, they're not having a shadow steering seat. Seriously, slow down, you don't have to work that hard. What I would like to say to you and ask you is that in a situation like this, in a war situation, in an emergency we are in, because it is possible to make fun of the emergency, but the fact is, ladies and gentlemen, one and a half million refugees have arrived in Hungary in six months, are real refugees, not those you tried to cut the fence with cold cutters in the south to open the way for economic migrants and migrants, but real refugees from a war country. This does require measures, which do require decisions that need to be taken quickly and decisively. [[Noise in DK's ranks.]] They see what the whole economic situation in Europe is like, that the dark clouds are now not just gathering on the European economy, but there is a storm in particular, and they see in particular that the German economy may be sinking into recession, and that it affects all of us, and that the necessary decisions must be taken, and that decisions must be taken decisively and quickly. And I think we can all thank you for not having a Gyurcsány government again in such a difficult situation. I ask you to support this bill, as you said before, that you will support the emergency if there is a time limit. There's a time limit, if you're people of words, you're gonna keep your own word, you're gonna support that, we're gonna do that. Thank you very much. [[Noise in DK's ranks. Forebod: We are not the words, we are the men of action.]]
u2022-10-04-82	Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. A general discussion of the bill on the establishment of the Animal Protection Foundation will follow until the closure. The government referral T/1203. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Minister for Justice Judit Varga, the rapporteur on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2022-10-04-83	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Parliament, It is of symbolic importance that, just today, this House is discussing the bill on the establishment of the Animal Protection Foundation, which is to be established to ensure responsible animal rearing and greater support for civil animal protection organisations, because today, on 4 October, we are celebrating the World Animal Day. [[To Peter Ovádi:]] Greetings, Commissioner. This great day is also one of the most influential medieval sacred days of St. Francis of Assisi. October 4th is therefore also a tribute to the patron saint of the animals, St. Francis, of whom many legends persisted for posterity, for example, according to some sources he also spoke to the animals who understood his words. Ladies and gentlemen, Animals make our lives happier by enriching our daily lives as fellow aids and friends. Humanity exists with the animal world in symbiosis, so it is one of its fundamental obligations to protect it. The goal of the World Animal Day is to strengthen friendship between man and animal and to draw attention to the importance of living together. The government bases its public work on cooperation, as we believe that in the priority social issues, we need to find the points of agreement that we need to incorporate into our decisions. This is a good example of the fact that in February 2021 we launched an online consultation entitled Animal Protection, in which we asked the Hungarian people's opinion on 13 important issues concerning animal protection. The consultation with huge interest proved to be successful, as almost 262 000 people expressed their views in a month on the support of civil society organisations for animal protection, animal farming and animal protection education, the neutering programme, Btk. tightening up, creating new shelters for farm animals and, for example, the use of pyrotechnic articles and the inclusion of circus wild animals. So this consultation was very colourful, and it was very popular in February. Horrorist cases of animal abuse and torture in the media have led the legislator to take a number of legal measures to protect animals, taking into account the results of the online dialogue on the protection of animals. This is why one of Europe's most stringent animal protection laws was born: CXXVIII of 2021 on the amendment of certain criminal law laws necessary for the protection of animals. a law that created the possibility of strict action against animal offences by creating new classified cases. The law adopted unanimously by Parliament, with exactly 168 votes in favour, has substantially extended the scope of classified cases of animal cruelty compared to previous regulations, given the increasing frequency of cases that have caused a scandal, in addition to the material suffering caused by animals, in a wide range of members of society. As an example, I would like to point out that the law punishes him with imprisonment of up to three years if animal cruelty is committed in public, for example, in front of an online audience, and that the new law envisages imprisonment of 1 year to 5 years against those who commit animal cruelty by using poison or by placing baits capable of killing the animal, causing the destruction of more animals. In addition, in the light of practical experience, it also creates the criminal liability of the viewers of the prohibited animal fighting, i.e. the participants. Ladies and gentlemen, The famous British zoologist and writer Gerald Durrell may be known by several people as follows:. The animals are a large, disenfranchised, mute majority, which can only survive with our help. The Hungarian Government is working to ensure this assistance in close cooperation with civil society organisations for animal protection. I would therefore like to thank Péter Ovádi, Commissioner of the Government, who, in the new governmental structure, is active in the Ministry of Justice, who is constantly monitoring the state of domestic animal protection during the development of the Animal Protection Action Plan, as well as assisting the development of professional concepts and proposals. The Ministry will always provide the Commissioner and his staff with the assistance necessary to carry out this task. Dear House, Following the complex animal protection objectives, I would also like to say a few words very briefly about the bill before us, as it is also a short bill, which aims to formulate and define the legislative framework for the creation of the Animal Protection Foundation. In order to avoid misunderstandings, I would like to point out that the law alone does not result in the establishment of the foundation, which the Minister for Justice in charge of the Government will take care of myself. It should also be pointed out that the fund's assets will be insured by the government and will be supported annually from 2024 onwards. As the submitted bill states, the National Assembly considers animal protection to be a common issue for all Hungarian citizens, therefore, in order to promote, develop responsible animal farming and animal protection and to strengthen cooperation with civil society organisations that have proved to be excellent so far, our joint cause will create a foundation called animal protection. We hope that the work started will be carried out even more effectively with the assistance of a foundation that will operate on a professional basis and with the continued involvement of civil society organisations. According to recent research, we can talk about nearly 3.5 million dog keepers in Hungary, but our goal is to talk about nearly 3.5 million responsible owners. One of the main tasks of the Foundation is to promote responsible livestock farming and to raise awareness of animal welfare. The target group of thinking is the whole population, especially the growing generation, because we need to start calling for conscious and responsible livestock as early as possible in childhood. It doesn't matter what values we raise the future generation. It is important for the current children to be responsible keepers of animals as adults, and it is important to start the transfer of this knowledge at a very small age, in kindergarten, in the primary school. In addition to this approach, the Foundation's public tasks include professional and credible information on animal protection for the general public, coordination of professional conferences on animal protection, national communication and awareness-raising campaigns, and monitoring and monitoring of applications. In addition to what has been said, the Foundation would also carry out a number of public benefit activities in order to meet both social and professional needs. It is important to stress that there is currently no organisation in our country that would carry out its animal protection activities so widely, through close cooperation with civil animal protection organisations, on a professional basis. [[14.10]] Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, I would like to emphasise once again that the government considers it very important to protect animals, which is part of the 21st century. All civil animal organisations and all animal-lovers can count on the support of the government and the foundation. I believe that the bill on the House's table is an excellent way to strengthen and further develop animal protection as a common social policy objective and the resulting task. It is a common matter that transcends all differences of opinion and political battles, since its explicit aim is to achieve this priority social issue as effectively as possible. Dear Parliament, I request the support of all my fellow Members for the bill. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-10-04-84	Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Péter Ovádi, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2022-10-04-85	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Madam Secretary, As Minister said, today is a symbolic day, because on the 4th of October, on the World Animal Day, we are presenting exactly this bill, we are honoring the memory of St. Francis of Assisi on the World Animal Day, since 1931 we are celebrating the World Animal Day worldwide, and in Hungary we have been celebrating it since 91. We celebrated the World Animal Day last year as, after the establishment of the Animal Protection Centre at the University of Veterinary Medicine, Szilvia Vetter established the Animal Protection Code, which we signed together with the authorities and civil society organisations last year, and since then more than 300 organisations have joined the Animal Protection Code. This shows how many of us are in the neighborhood of animal control. And today we have an installation: it can be seen in Erzsébet Square, and I say to my fellow Members, and I encourage them to look at this installation, which is about responsible animal farming, and about our common cause, animal protection. When I received the appointment on 1 October 2020 to become Minister for Animal Protection, I thought and still think that animal protection is a matter beyond policy. That is why we may say that we have a common concern about animal protection, because animal protection affects everyone and must be unpolitical. That is why we thought that the first step is to consult, to ask society what they think about animal protection. We asked citizens on 13 important issues, and we can see how many of us are in favour of animal protection, since 262,000 people have completed our questionnaire. This actually showed us the direction in which we should take animal protection. I will also tell you how important it is to communicate with people, so we created the allatvedelem@gov.hu e-mail address, where we have received thousands of emails, opinions and requests since then. Thank you for this, too, because it is very important for people to express their views and to have a communication channel where we can respond continuously. This has changed since we worked with the secretary at the Ministry of Justice for animal protection. This has become allatvedelem@im.gov.hu. We've been waiting for opinions ever since. When we talk about the important challenges of animal protection, it is very important to take civil society organisations forward, because it is civil society organisations that have been working for tens of years in the field of animal protection. They need a lot of help that they deserve, and they maintain shelters, and they also take a number of measures that are of particular importance to animal protection. There are hundreds of such NGOs in Hungary, and we need their experience and their opinion as well. That is why it is important for me to find out, at county level, who can do for animal protection, who are responsible for animal protection, and where civil society organisations are always there, because it is very important for them to be present alongside the authority and to be able to express their views on animal protection. The country also shows that animal protection is facing different challenges in all parts of the country, and we need to find solutions locally and locally. When we said in 2020 that we should start working immediately to support civil society organisations, to review the legislative environment, the Minister said how the Criminal Code was amended in order to ensure that Article XXI of the Act was amended. It responds to the challenges of the century, and perhaps one was missing from the list that we also took action against propagating material. For the first time in Europe, we have created a legislative environment that tells us who illegal reproductive material is, because I told you from the beginning in my work that we have to fight against illegal reproductive material. But how important it is that in animal welfare we achieve this in education! After all, the child of today is the keeper of the future, and it is therefore very important that we have started programs such as the, for example, Animal Protection for children, which is very important, that we are educating our children in a kindergarten and school environment. But it is very important that we launched the Gazdi jogi program together with Nébih and the University of Veterinary Medicine. This also shows how big the application is, since personal education is immediately full and can be filled online. I continue to encourage everyone who wants to be a responsible animal keeper to take advantage of these opportunities. But when we had to face the challenges, we also saw that it is very important to reduce the population of stray animals in Hungary, and it is very important that we have taken those steps, and it came out during the crossing of the country that the number of stray animals may be the biggest problem in the settlements under 5,000 people. If we were able to include this in the Hungarian village program, the call for responsible livestock, I booked it as a success, since we could write out a 500 million HUF program, for which more than 600 municipalities have successfully applied. This meant that more than 18,000 dogs or cats could have been neutered. This has not been the case in Hungary in recent decades. If we look at what programs we still need to start, then we see that it is important that the Hungarian village programme continues, and it is important that we draw attention to responsible animal farming, monitor continuously how we can change the legislative environment, and, when necessary, intervene in this. This was the case with regard to the fur use of carnivorous fur animals during Covid's time, I'm sure the fellow Members remember that we had to change the legislation in order to stop it. But when we talk about these things, we always have to have a case to keep our eyes open, that's what we're doing together to protect animals, and we want to do something about animal protection. That is why I am pleased that a foundation that might make these things even more effective will be able to make the call for responsible livestock more effective, since it does not matter what generation will grow up and how they will relate to animals. But it is very important that the purpose of the foundation is to support civil society organisations. The HUF 500 million application, which affected civil society organisations, was a great success, more than 200 people submitted their support requests for this. It also shows how good a tender has been made, and it shows that those civil society organisations have been prepared and that we have been able to put out the tender in order to really do what they need. I also think that these are really milestones, and we know precisely that one of the main directions of the foundation is to support these civil society organisations. But we need to support scientific programmes, we need to support animal welfare conferences, we need to support everything that we can do to make animal protection more effective. Here, too, I would like to thank Szilvia Vetter, head of the Animal Protection Centre, for we can work together on a number of things that drive forward the issue of animal protection, because, as I said at the beginning, I would like to do so, and that is why I would ask my fellow Members to support our bill, because we share the issue of animal protection. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-10-04-86	It is now up to Mrs Andrea Hegedüs, the lead speaker of the DK Group. I give you the floor. Here you go. [[14.20]]
u2022-10-04-87	Thank you very much. Dear House, Madam President, World Animal Protection Day is very important, and it is a great treasure that we commemorate and pay attention to our pets every year. But it doesn't just have to be limited to this one day. When a pet decided to love us, it would last a lifetime. Many of us have experienced this unselfish love, tenderness, protection, friendship without words. Our favorite can sympathize with us, see the meaning of his life in another being, in us. However, there is also a painful negative side to this link. We've all seen when we're on the road, that after we hit the road, I'm gonna have an animal on the road, or we'll accidentally step on a pet's foot, because it's nothing but love. Such a case is accidental or careless, and it is not an aggressive act. What a gripping feeling it is to see animals caged, defenseless, deprived of freedom in an animal shelter! It's a time when pet lovers and all good-hearted people are heartbroken. But what happens when an animal is punished, tortured, or subjected to animal fights planned? I assume that the government will be led by good intentions when it establishes a public-use animal protection foundation, whose wealth and the annual support it will provide for its operation, will only live from 2024 onwards, with the aim of ensuring the present and future development of animal protection, improving animal welfare knowledge and involving civil society organisations in the field of animal protection. The Minister for Justice will take care of all of this. Five of the Foundation's staff will be provided with the infrastructure and the right to use real estate within the public service. That sounds really nice. This foundation would be a good idea if it were not closely linked to the government, and not just another office, especially the fact that some animal rights defenders have long proposed, for example, the creation of an information portal. There's a lot of questions. Who will be members of the foundation? Will we see the budget? How will animal protection organisations be supported? What circle will it touch? What are the criteria for the selection? Experience has shown that organisations close to the government will once again receive support and that small organisations that need it most will be left out again. Encouraging scientific and educational activities to promote animal protection sounds good. But what exactly does that mean? Will animal protection be part of the basic training plan? Who's gonna promote it? Who will give lectures, for we have heard this today? The possibilities of adapting international good practices do not need to be explored, practically everything can be transposed. It is feared that the Foundation will fully cover the coordination of animal protection activities, thus crowding out many important players. It's worrying that he's the only way to get any help. The draft also provides for the insurance of the Foundation's assets. The question arises as to why this provision should be drawn up immediately in the proposal. On this basis, it can be assumed that this foundation will also belong to the foundations through which the government is trying to save the state's assets. What will happen to support the animal protection work by 2024, since it will be another year if the foundation only starts making payments? The proposal is not clear where five of the Foundation's staff refer to the infrastructure and the right to use real estate. Based on the text, it is not possible to decide whether five of the employees will now have offices for work or if five passersbys are asked to work. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Wow!]] Wouldn't it be easier to spend all this money on the foundation's establishment and operation directly on civil society organisations and animal shelters that need it? And just one example. A hundred-dog shelter buys 1 ton of dog food on an annual basis to support animals. They are also hit by the overhead increase, and they also have to pay double electricity and seven-time gas bills, not at retail prices. There are shelters that specialize in caring for newborns and puppies, and small animals die without adequate temperature. In this situation, domestic animal protection does not need a foundation, but the implementation of the proposals that the opposition has already put on the table and announced. Elements: National animal protection fund worth at least HUF 15 billion a year with a budget [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] ; recording the protection of animals and animals in the Constitution; animal protection ombudsman, including a notification, oversees the fund, submits motions to Parliament, initiates legislative amendments, informs Parliament of matters concerning animal protection. Animal welfare should be part of the National Basics plan for my music ears. They're already ahead of us in England. One of the animal protection organisations today has an accredited textbook with schools on animal protection and use in Hungary alone, so that information on animal protection can reach the children. This publication is designed for teachers in primary schools and not for children. So this is another deficit area. The therapy dog program is also started by them, which is a huge experience for children. In the framework of higher education, there is also a shortage of training for animal protection lawyers. It is difficult to represent the issue of animal protection if special vocational training is not provided. I'm also missing the dog police training. In most of the so-called pounding sites, it is necessary to provide adequate training for all workers there. Ten thousand dogs are put to sleep every year. In animal protein processing plants, animals are anesthetized, we all know, by injection. This is the nobler version. However, there is knowledge that innocent animals are brutally killed in sacks. The elimination of reproduction is very important. Forbid propagatings from the Internet sites by law! I don't think all the surfaces here are covered. Strictly punish the organizers of animal fighting and the participants as well! Not only should the trap, the poison, the barbed sausage and the sausage be punished if it causes the deaths of several animals, but also in the event of the death of one animal! Animal control guard, animal police by authority. The State Protection Act provides for the possibility of setting up a municipal animal welfare guard service, but it is linked to the issuing of a relevant government decree. This is still lacking in preparation, and its creation prevents organisations with uncertain backgrounds, legal status and powers calling themselves animal defenders from creating animal police. It is worth heeding the requests and suggestions made by animal protection organisations, associations, which have already come to you, as I hear, but they have not done, but do not do very little for it. In their name, I say that the Animal Protection Act does not actually provide protection today. As Minister said, there will be 3-5 years of punishment for serious cases, but with the end of the investigation phase, by the time you are brought to justice, some cases may unfortunately be considered an infringement. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: I can't believe it!]] A real penalty is imposed in few cases, not uncommonly incomprehensible decision, unduly mild judgment or complete failure to comply. As many determining authorities, so many decisions or judgments are made. It is far from uniform, but it is not even similar to the procedure of the competent authorities, i.e. there is a lack of established and coordinated practice, taking into account uniform principles within the limits of opportunities. I've heard a lot of pets talk about the reprimanding of civil law. It would be necessary to strengthen the duties of the authorities. According to animal welfare professionals and operators and keepers of real animal shelters, there are hundreds of foundations in our country that have not been checked for authenticity. A rabbit cage or a crooked abandoned property stored in a hardware store is registered as a shelter and collects funds from unsuspecting supporters. It is necessary to replace the control of organisations that claim to be animal protection. An example. The animal health facility in Miskolc is full, but there is no money. They are doing everything they can to avoid anesthesia, and they have launched a bid for, for example, László Cseh's World Champion's dedicated swimming cap, the purchase of help. It's a noble gesture. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Where is the municipality?]] You can read it, by the way, it's online. Following the current Ministry of Environment, animal protection belonged to the agricultural purse, the Minister for Agriculture has now appointed the Minister of Agriculture, but since May he has been a government commissioner for the Minister of Justice. The Ministry of Justice is responsible for the establishment of the Animal Protection Foundation. This opens up more questions. [[14.30]] The latest and devastating news is that the government commissioner responsible for animal protection said that within days there will be a more serious amount of 1 percent tax offerings for businesses, but suddenly it has been postponed for an uncertain period of time to provide state aid of HUF 500 million promised to animal protection civilians; this can also be taken as a campaign promise. Instead of a spectacle bakery, it is necessary to remedy the situation that has now emerged, which has become untenable and hopeless, and to provide immediate financial assistance in food and clothing, otherwise thousands of animals will die because of human cruelty and the government's careless or superficial attitude. Consider the conditions under which this foundation is set up, operated, financed, and not entrusted to a government commissioner who is tied directly to the government's money-sucking machines. There are credible organisations, MEPs, who have been operating real animal shelters for several years, who are active in animal protection, and I think we should look for them. The emphasis is on professional credibility and independence from the government. This proposal in this form is more of a hoax, and it is feared that it will only be another paying place without real animal protection work. On this basis, we do not agree with the bill. Our proposal is that this form cannot be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Miklós Dawn applauds.]]
u2022-10-04-88	The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is now Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2022-10-04-89	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Dear Madam Secretary, Dear Parliament, I appeal to my fellow Member in DK: not even his fellow oppositionists applauded him, honourable Member. So if there's a... [[Andrea Hegedüs: They apologized!]] Yeah, they apologized right away so Ferenc Gyurcsány wouldn't punish them. So if there's a malicious voice in Parliament, if there's a perverse and malicious voice here in Parliament, it's yours now. It's called our joint case on animal protection. Here's a law, and here's a case where we can work together to create something big, beautiful and useful, like here, and you come here and say that you're not on the animal side. [[Andrea Hegedüs: Yes, you can! That's a twist.]] You don't support efforts to protect animals. I understand that the Miskolc government doesn't want to support the Miskolc animal shelter, I understand that, heart and soul. If you choose to do so in Miskolc, then you decide not to support your own shelters and your own animal welfare NGOs, that's your problem. [[Andrea Hegedüs: You misunderstood something!]] It is not my duty to protect my fellow Member, Ovádi, because he is here in this Chamber, he can defend himself, but, honourable Member, if you look at the work of the Commissioner of the Government from the last few years: he has met with the civil society organisations you mentioned, and the question of the consultation has developed exactly the way in which the animal protection law was tightened up, for example, the creation of the current foundation was established by consulting these civil society organisations. There are 62 thousand NGOs in Hungary. You consider that 120 civil society organisations supported from abroad are important, but there are 62 thousand civil society organisations in Hungary, and there is a relatively well-defined circle that deals with animal protection at small, local, regional or even national level. It is quite clear that they must be consulted and spoken to, that is what Péter Ovadi, Commissioner of the Government, is doing, because that is his job, honourable Member, to travel the country. Did you see how many places you've been? [[Andrea Hegedüs: And funding...]] I recommend that you take note of the Minister's or the Commissioner's Facebook page to see how many places you have visited on this topic, how many discussions have been convened on this subject, how many conferences have you attended on this subject, how many NGOs have been consulted in Hungary. I understand, honourable Member, that there is one thing that you have been given a party order: everything the government brings here must be opposed. I understand that, that's the opposition role, and now your party president is mocking and mocking the Prime Minister with all kinds of nasty adjectives. I understand that you have come this far now, I understand, but the thing is, Madam honourable Member, you have raised things here today that are quite hairy. Just to reassure the honourable Member that if she can vote in favour of the bill then, for example, not five passers-bys will be admitted to this foundation, this is not Klára Dobrev's forum, where five passers-bys need to take a picture as if there were someone there. So this is a foundation that will be created through Parliament by the Minister of Justice, and which will have a budget, will have co-workers, will have a task. For example, you asked why it was necessary to provide for wealth. I would like to inform the honourable Member that a foundation can only be created with its founding assets, without which a foundation can be set up. On the other hand, if we do not allocate financial resources to it, which you missed in the second half of your speech, then there is no point in creating a foundation, we agree. We would like to provide for wealth in order to enable this foundation to carry out meaningful activities, to provide substantial assistance in the field of domestic animal protection. And if you have confused the season with the guy: stepping on someone's feet by accident is not animal abuse or human abuse, honourable Member. [[Andrea Hegedüs: He's twisting my words!]] This morning, someone in the elevator stepped on my foot by accident, but I don't think... it wasn't Congressman Vajda, although I had the pleasure of riding in the elevator with him. [[Zoltán Vajda intervenes.]] That doesn't mean I'm being abused because someone accidentally stepped on my leg, not the kind of problems we're talking about in this bill. [[Andrea Hegedüs: I'll tell you again!]] I'll be very grateful. Many questions have been raised. This foundation is also written down, and the Minister has made it very clear that the answer to the questions raised by you will be exactly as follows: such a foundation can make the launch of an information website; such a foundation can conduct campaigns and applications so that applications, programmes that are directly addressed to civil society organisations for the protection of animals can be announced. And this foundation will also have the task of making proposals to the Minister of Justice if he sees any legal shortcomings, which is why he should be the one to set up, and then the Minister of Justice, together with the Commissioner of Government, will be able to bring to Parliament the necessary legislative amendments which, let us say, were not settled last year's amendment. That's exactly why it has to be created. You are saying that you in DK are saying no to starting proposals within the framework of the Foundation, to launch an information website, to help these civil society organisations to form an interest-sharing forum under the leadership of the Foundation. That's exactly what you're attacking. I think it's wrong. There's still time until the vote, three or four weeks, so we can revisit the position. I think that this foundation will be created precisely to the questions raised by you, and therefore it is called our joint concern about animal protection, not ours. Okay, you can pull yourself out, the opposition can do that, you can pull yourself out of an important joint case. What I see now is that you have attempted to pull yourself out of this common cause, but yet, even so, we still believe that this is a common cause, and we still believe that this must be done together. We believe this despite the fact that in Budapest the animal protection ombudsman and the animal protection programme have been announced with smoke, and nothing has happened, honourable Member. Nothing! DK is the largest faction in the capital, Gergely Christmas was the mayor, Rebecca Szabó was the Commissioner for Animal Protection. Nothing has happened in this area in Budapest, nothing, honourable Member. The only entity acting on this issue is the Hungarian government, the Fidesz-KDNP fractional community, Péter Ovádi and Judit Varga. That is the case, Madam honourable Member, unfortunately this is a matter of fact, and it is not worth having them taken away. Madam Secretary, you have presented the restrictions that came into force last year. I would like to highlight one thing here: the punishment of the participants in the animal fight. It's a key issue because we've finally turned it around, and I think we need to use similar things in drug cases, for example. This is a situation where if a person is a beneficiary, beneficiary, not in a financial sense, but participates in these situations, and thus supports such situations with his ticket, bets, whatever he supports, so that these networks can survive, they should be punished in the same way as those organizers, organizers, directors and supporters of these tournaments. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The fact is that at the time there was a consensus in the Parliament, you were not a Member at the time, but we voted together, those who were here, don't, Ferenc Gyurcsány doesn't go to work, so he didn't vote for it, but the others voted in favour of this bill, so it is very important that there is a common consensus. You are here today, Tuesday afternoon, preparing to break this common consensus. You can do this, you have every right to do so, but I still think that this area should be brought back to the top of the political consensus, but that is why you should support the establishment of a foundation that will be able to act on merit in this area, which is supposed to be our common cause, which is why it is called. That's why I'm asking you to reconsider your position. I very much hope that your opposition fellow Members will convince you, in their speeches, that it is worth supporting this issue, because anyone who does not support this law will not support the case of animal protection. We'll support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-04-90	It is now time for Congresswoman Zita Gurmai, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. I give you the floor. Here you go. [[14.40]]
u2022-10-04-91	Thank you very much. Madam President, Madam Secretary! Fellow Members! We can say that we cannot be proud of the domestic situation of animal protection. This is also apparent from the fact that the government wants to change the current situation on several points with this proposal. It is a special pleasure that this proposal includes a number of points and themes that opposition parties have long advocated. Thank you for that. In details, it is in some cases identical to the proposal that we opposition parties, together, submitted to Parliament as a package of amendments to the protection of animals. This was, for example, the creation of a basic animal protection fund. Unfortunately, however, we have missed a number of important proposals. We've initiated the establishment of an animal protection guard within the police force. The task of this would be to prevent crime, to protect animals effectively and to track down perpetrators. We wanted to tighten the hunting law, which has allowed hunters to launch dogs and cats freely since the summer of 2016. Since there have been a lot of such excesses in recent years, there has been considerable tension between hunters and keepers of animals and animal rights. Then we suggested that the technical condition be created to allow stray animals to return home more quickly. We have initiated that animal torturers can be banned from keeping animals, because now there is nothing to prevent the perpetrators from taking another animal instead of the confiscated animal and continuing the horrors that have been committed. We have proposed that the institution of the animal protection ombudsman should be set up, which could be another effective tool for animal protection. We've recommended that the Btk be tightened up. penalties in cases of animal welfare [[Sic!]] They're organizing tournaments. And those who set traps where animals die... [[Towards Péter Ovádi:]] Yes, I took that as a step forward in this, but I think it would be worth thinking about together, because when it comes to common affairs, I think that common thinking is always useful. We have initiated the establishment of a veterinary on-call system that the state would fund on weekends and holidays. We have proposed significant restrictions on the animal cruelty of propagating animals, and we have proposed banning the sale and advertising of such puppies. These have been concrete and effective initiatives by opposition parties, and I regret that these proposals have not been supported, but there really is still time. Of course, it is also possible for the ruling party to present these amendments, and we will certainly support them. Well, they're missing out, or there's still a chance they'll be worked out in detail. Ladies and gentlemen, So there is still work to be done in the field of animal welfare. We are proposing to the government that they review our proposals that we have tabled earlier, because I think that there are a number of other things that I have already mentioned that should be included. The Hungarian Socialist Party supports this proposal, even if we see that it is not enough, because we appreciate the intention. Because we stand by animals, we vote to protect them. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause.]]
u2022-10-04-92	I now give the floor to Congressman Ferenc Varga, the lead speaker of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2022-10-04-93	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Dear Madam Secretary, Dear Parliament, I also think that there are things in life that need to be lifted above party political battles, and that, in addition to the issue of nationalities, animal protection is such a case. That's exactly why I don't sell bagcats, the Jobbik will support this proposal. At the same time, allow me to say a few thoughts on this matter. Given that the leading speakers who spoke before me have already been around the subject quite well, I am trying to keep to the strictest possible point. I must say that there would be no problem with your proposal, because such a foundation can really work well, and the truth is that it would be very much needed, but nevertheless, I see some distractions on your part, because the animal protection laws have been introduced in the campaign, because we know very well that this is a very popular topic. It's a crisis. They're throwing in another one of these. Why? It's probably because it's good for rubber bones, and they're distracting people from the point of view. You are also delaying the allocation of subsidies to animal protection organisations for an uncertain period of time, as the participants of the HUF 500 million tender announced received an electronic message from Herman Ottó Intézet Kft., in which they were informed of the sad news. This is only interesting because the day before that, Péter Ovádi, Commissioner of the Government for Animal Protection, said on Mokka's programme that we would have the results within days. Then, of course, I saw that they claimed that they would postpone it for an uncertain period because there were a lot of applications. After all, you could say a date in a month or two months, because we can see the situation in which the civil animal rights organizations you hold dear are in. So the government doesn't even keep the few commitments they promised. And in my opinion, it is not a new foundation that we need, but, above all, to keep their promises in this area. There is a crisis, which the shelters also feel very seriously, the overhead, the petrol cap does not apply to most of them, because of inflation, not only food, but practically also the price of animal food is skyrocketed. I am not sure that such a foundation should be set up now, rather than giving immediate assistance to animal welfare associations, because these restrictions could actually cost animals their lives. At the same time, as I have told you, animal protection is a priority on our part, therefore criticising, but we support your proposal. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
u2022-10-04-94	It is now time for the lead speaker of the Dialogue Group, Ms Rebecca Szabó. I give you the floor, please.
u2022-10-04-95	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Madam President, Dear fellow Members, Dear Madam Secretary and Commissioner of the Government. I am pleased that the Parliament is dealing with animal protection; and of course it has been particularly well timed for the World Animal Day, indeed, it is a very commendable thing. I also have to say that I really appreciate you trying to do something. Of course, you are certainly not surprised that you will be criticized by the opposition, so I must say that after 12 years of two-thirds governance, I also feel a little bit less, and I will therefore say more specifically why. On the one hand, others have told me, but I have to say that I really don't understand why a foundation has to be created for everything. It could be a good way, I can't say it, I just thought, I think, maybe it was in 2016, that the President of the Republic at the time created the Blue Planet Climate Protection Foundation, and of course, climate protection is also a very important goal. This organization, I remember, received more than HUF 1.5 billion of state aid in 2019 and 2020, and bought in 2021, I think an office building for a fork in Pasaret for HUF 1.5 billion. What I could think of first is how I would do for climate protection, I wouldn't think of buying a fork at Pasaret for a billion and a half. And at the same time, the most significant budget support available to all Hungarian green NGOs: a total of HUF 70 million was distributed in 2021 and 22 in the framework of the Green Source application distributed by the Ministry of Agriculture. So the foundation was stuffed with a billion and a half, and now green civilians are not talking about animal rights, but I'm talking about greens, and they gave me 70 million forints. So if I look at this example and this trend, then I am seriously concerned that it will not be that this foundation and obviously its leaders will be well provided with billions and billions of dollars, and how much money will be made for all the animal protection civilians you have mentioned many times, whether this foundation will complete the mission, and not be a public fund filled with public money. Obviously, if I were in good faith, I would say that, of course, we'll see, just the example I've just mentioned, and a few other things I'm afraid to know about the government's activities, he says to me that that's why I'm concerned about this. Here it has been said several times, but I hope that Mr. Péter Ovádi will respond again, or even Minister, we will see which of you is who, then, what is really going to happen to this 500 million. It's just that pet civilians aren't so calmed down by that little inscription that they're putting off for an uncertain period of time. You know that the energy crisis, the fact that you have significantly increased the overhead, electricity, gas prices, will be an enormous burden for many people, and especially for non-individual civilians. [[14.50]] So those who operate a site or shelter where there is heating and lighting, for example, are a very significant burden, and these civilians also need every penny. Under these circumstances, I know that Péter Ovádi feels that this is unpleasant, and I am sure that you will receive the phones from the civilians for an uncertain period of time. Now, this is where it belongs, this is where it's supposed to be, so we can get an answer. I'm very interested to know when you'll get this money. Unfortunately, what I see is that I'm following a lot of animal welfare NGOs on Facebook, trying to find out about their activities, and now I've randomly looked at a few pages again: almost all of them have a cry for help on their side. And I also know that obviously, civil society organizations for animal welfare have to ask for it all the time. Why? Because otherwise there is no and in the last 12 years there has not been a transparent, normal public financing system, but rather it is customary to ask citizens constantly. To some extent, that's okay, by the way. So I am not saying that citizens should not contribute to this, but I feel it is disproportionate that these civil society organisations now carry out virtually a public task, saving the sick, injured, stray, shot, animal-torn dogs, cats, guinea pigs and even livestock, horses and goats, I will practically mention this on the streets of the settlements. In this respect, Budapest is a little different, but in the countryside there are very, very many stray animals in smaller settlements, especially in the eastern part of the country, so these civilians save these animals, and indeed, they are extremely resourceless, and they would need a predictable state funding. And that's why I'm telling you that they're basically doing a government job, so they're actually doing it instead of you, instead of the government. Now, there are lawn-master establishments, which are subject to specific rules, and which, in fact, is part of such a state-government system, but unfortunately, the practice shows that these lawn-master establishments also have respect for the exception, because there is an exception for most of them that functions poorly, they keep animals in bad conditions, and they often sleep because there is a lack of space. I have just read in the village of Edelény practically calling for anesthesia to the local government, because there are so many dogs in the streets of the settlement that they can no longer take them. Of course, animal rights officers give each other the alarm chain so we can get the dogs out of there quickly so it doesn't become that they destroy the poor, who can't do anything. And who's gonna solve it again? It's the animal rights guys. And by the way, this is Mr. Nacha just now, I don't know... This is a municipality supported by Fidesz, but wasn't that what I wanted to point out just before Mr. Nacsa again how to say the opposition? I'd like to say that, as you said, it's a joint matter and it concerns everyone, well, it really affects everyone. Fidesz municipalities are also affected by this problem. And I have to tell you that I was on the east side of the country this January, and I found a small dog by the side of the road, away from a settlement. It was obvious, there was no collar or anything on it, there was no settlement nearby, I didn't leave it, I collected it, and I tried to make a phone call to the clerks of the local municipalities, where there was a place where I could drop it off, where it would be safe. And I'm obviously not going to say that squirming and cursing on purpose, well... that they're not..., they're not in a contract with a pedigree establishment, and they're not, and they can't, and I'm going to take it here, I'm going to take it there... So, it's not solved. And you can't put that in the hands of the local authorities alone, it doesn't matter what the political adjustment is. The municipalities are simply left alone with this task, because they do not have enough resources to operate these pedigree settlements normally. I'm asking you very nicely to fix this. And frankly, I have some doubts that this foundation is going to solve this. It would be nice if they tried to find other ways to do that. By the way, I brought the dog home, and after all, we found him a farmer here in Budapest, so the dog was saved; I will not leave the animals to their fate. But regardless of a well-intentioned citizen... not everyone can do this to get you home now, and that's how you deal with it. It would be good if this were to be ensured, on the spot, what should be done with stray animals, which is humane, and not about being killed afterwards, because obviously you don't want to do that. So, unfortunately, what I see is that you are unable to take care of this stray situation, the civilians are carrying out these tasks. But I can see they're dealing with it. Last year, I had a question or apologies, not last year, but in June, I just mean, during the previous session, there was a summer break, when Minister of State Farkas told me in his reply that earlier, when the Animal Protection Action Plan 2020 was being prepared, the national chief animal doctor also indicated that it was not possible to keep the confiscated livestock in a temporary accommodation and that, therefore, a proposal was made for the establishment of accommodations, and that the chief veterinarian had made a proposal to keep the confiscated animals temporarily. And in the national animal protection programme, according to the management of the field, cooperation with civilians is much cheaper and more cost-effective than building and maintaining an independent reception facility. There was a shelter like this, the Dharma Horse Sanctuary Foundation, which would have been suitable for keeping livestock confiscated from all over the country, but you missed this opportunity. They made an agreement with them, and then they broke it down, and they didn't pay them the money that the foundation said they should have, because they tend to state horses. But it doesn't matter what was in the past, in the present, it would be an opportunity... because, unfortunately, there is a case in the case of livestock, whether horses, goats or sheep; unfortunately, we also know about a sheep flock launch that happened this year. So there would be a reason to humanely confiscate these animals and to keep them in these reception facilities. But they haven't been able to build that possibility yet. And by the way, there's another one, the Equus Lounge. They also perish in practice in the holding of confiscated horses during such legal proceedings, and they have to sue the Hungarian State to pay them their wages. So I'm not saying that you did this on purpose, but I'm saying that something here in the regulation is not good, and I think you should see these problems, too. It's obviously a big responsibility to be government commissioner in a two-thirds government, because you people believe that you can do whatever you want, because you're used to steering this country by two-thirds. Well, here's the noble task in animal welfare. Here too, you could really solve these problems. I think that has been said, but I would also like to say a few things. On the one hand, okay, let's make it a foundation, but I beg you to tell me why you're getting the money to run from 2024? Is this a misunderstanding? Maybe I got it wrong. Why can't he have money to run from 2023? I understand you have to give a fortune to establish it, but what happens in 2023? So there's still a lot of time, and the animal control civilians need help about yesterday. So I don't understand why you have to wait a year. And the other thing is that, indeed, which are already listed here in part, and I would also like to mention a few things, so please don't forget these, that, on the one hand, it would be very good to repair the pedigree settlements. The creation of the animal protection guard has been said, which, in some way, in cooperation with civil society organisations, in cooperation with a certain department of the police, either by giving police a more effective animal protection training... Because it comes back from animal rights civilians again, unfortunately, often that there are very kind, very benevolent police officers who are obviously trying to help them within the legal framework, but unfortunately, there are also people who have no idea what the legislation says. (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.) And for real, animal rights civilians, if they're not smart enough, technically, even in animal cruelty cases, there's no intervention, and again I'm just saying, it's kind of a matter of luck who they're hooked up with. I think that this could also be improved. And then, uh, you guys talked about thinking, about keeping animals responsible. Thank you very much, you did the right thing. The opposition parties, we, we have asked earlier that it is indeed, in the National Basics, it would also be somehow good to get into it. Obviously, the national neutering program is very important. The Hungarian village program was mentioned. I think that this is not a bad start, but it is not just in the settlements below 5,000 people, and I think that this envelope will be necessary again. The lack of neutering is a very, very big problem. In the same way, the fight against illegal reproductive material has been said. I think that, as Zita Gurmai mentioned, it would also be important to help with the veterinary care, some kind of state dotation, because really, even in Budapest, I have to say that it is very difficult to get into a weekend veterinary care in Budapest now, but in smaller settlements outside Budapest... Okay, I know, I understand that hospitals, so hospitals for people, are becoming more and more problematic, but I don't mean small villages, but even in rural cities, if you don't give it to me, God, something happens to the animal on weekends, it's kind of a big problem where you run to. And it's one of those things that I think there should be some kind of state-government intervention on this, too. We believe that we have suggested to the budget earlier that a national animal protection fund should be set up, which could be used to finance various animal welfare tasks, including support for animal protection civilians. [[15.00]] If you want to do this now through a foundation, but so be it, then really spend the foundation's money for the right purpose. By the way, I still have a legislative amendment in place in connection with the support of civil society organisations, which I hope, soon, well, it would be a good idea for the honourable majority of the government to include me in a series of subjects. Of course, they don't, but I'll tell you right now that our proposal is that 1 percent of the tax that can now be given to civilians and churches should be not 2 but 4 percent in total, so you can give an extra 1 percent to civilians, but to different civilians, so you can give 2 to 1 percent to NGOs. I think civil society organisations need more support. And fourth percent, I'd like to suggest that you go to trade unions, also on the basis of the citizen's decision. This is part of our proposal. And the other is to return it so that the individual can reduce his tax base by 75 percent after his public donation. Once again, it would be a help that, for example, if I wanted to highlight animal protection organisations or even other humanitarian NGOs, but I wanted to highlight animal protection organisations, someone to donate, it would somehow reduce the tax base, so to say, people will be given a positive feedback after their donation. The other issue is that I think that, unfortunately, in this crisis, let us say it: because of this government austerity policy, people will have less and less money, so right now, when civilians, animal rights, need a lot of help, unfortunately, people will not be able to donate enough, because they will not have any money. inflation is skyrocketing, the overhead is skyrocketing, so unfortunately, this is not going to be enough. That is why there is a great need for the 500 million you have promised, Mr Ovadi. And one final thought: we are always talking about co-animals, but I think it is very important that we talk about livestock as well, and not only about confiscated, tortured farmed animals, but also about farm animals that are otherwise kept for food purposes by the industry. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] , the food industry... My time's up?
u2022-10-04-96	Yeah.
u2022-10-04-97	Then I'll press the button and then I'll continue. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of Dialogue and Momentum.]]
u2022-10-04-98	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Rebecca Szabó. I salute my fellow Members. I now give the floor to Mr István Szabadi, the lead speaker of the group of our countries.
u2022-10-04-99	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Madam Secretary, Your Honour, Commissioner of the Government, Indeed, there is no brighter opportunity to talk about animal protection on World Animal Day, and as the first green national radical party in Europe, the Hungarian Movement is committed to environmental protection and animal protection, which is based on our Vihradat programme itself. In our view, a society is best characterised by how people in it care and experience, how they do for the environment and animals. We therefore stand in favour of the strictest punishment for animal cruelty, the elimination of fur farms, the strict control of livestock farms and so on. Fidesz only discovered the importance of animal protection in the tenth year of its governance, as in 2021 our joint case was launched with the slogan "animal protection" to address the shortcomings of the animal protection policy of the past decades. As of January this year, they claim that one of the most stringent animal protection laws in Europe has been put in place in Hungary, according to which up to five years of prison can be imposed for animal cruelty. In addition, animal poisoning is punished more severely, they act more strictly against propagating material, and participation in animal fighting is also a criminal offence, which is extremely right. At the same time, rules for the capture of stray animals were laid down in a regulation; more stringent rules could be applied for the use of dog control facilities, which can also be performed by local authorities through an agreement with the animal shelter. Mob facilities shall provide accommodation for stray animals for 45 days instead of 14 days; they shall keep a detailed record of the animals and shall operate a website. The regulation states that a permanent ban on dogs is also prohibited in Hungary. You are proud that both the law and the regulation have been the result of a wide-ranging and several months of social consultation, even the Prime Minister has completed the online questionnaire. Zsolt Nyitrai, Prime Minister's Commissioner for Priority Social Affairs, pointed out at his press conference before the elections that the government is basing its public work on dialogue on priority social issues, as well as the support of animal defenders and animal lovers can count on government support. That's all well and good, that's why I listed it, but it wouldn't have hurt to ask for the opinion of society, including animal shelters, even before the regulations made in the summer. Increases in overhead prices, food prices, feed and feed prices and medical costs have a significant additional burden on shelters and animal protectors. They can't sustain themselves. It is not on the side of a shelter that they cease their activities because their financial resources are depleted. At the same time, citizens' financial burdens are gradually increasing, with no money left for their pets, so the demand for animal shelters may even increase. According to the view of the Hungarian Movement, if the government really felt responsible for animal protection, then it would also have to maintain public health protection for animal shelters. Particular attention should be paid to the fact that on 11 July 2022, Mr Péter Ovádi, who has been Minister for Animal Protection as of October 2020 and government commissioner this year, asked the government an immediate question: "What would it mean if the Left abolished the reduction of the rent? It's called, which was withdrawn after the regulation was issued. Péter Ovádi, Minister for Foreign Affairs, stated after his appointment that he would try to ensure that animal torturers actually receive imprisonment; this requires precedental judicial decisions, since the abuse of animals is the first step towards committing violent crimes against people. Dear fellow Members, According to the MiHazák Movement, three-quarters of years have passed since the entry into force of the new Animal Protection Act, but there are serious problems with the application of it, since there are still everyday relationships with animals, atrocities and tortures. There should be much more effective action on animal cruelty, as the Commissioner said, animal cruelty and cruelty to humans are linked. Recently, a man strangled a vizsla in front of his master, unfortunately, and a few months later, the same dog-killing man killed a man in a bar fight. So this proves what the Commissioner said. Even though the law has been tightened up, the liberal judicial practice currently in force still does not provide enough deterrent force against the torture of animals in our country. The MiHazák Movement demands and demands that prosecutors and courts impose stricter penalties on the perpetrators who have been accused of animal cruelty in the course of the judgments, and that the perpetrators of animal torture be put behind bars for years. Before the elections, Commissioner, he said that the impact of regulation was visible, because, for example, the number of animals in the chain was reduced. I would like to know, let's say, how you found this, because in Hungary dogs are not registered, there is no way to know how many dogs live in a settlement, how many dogs they have on an annual basis, let alone how many of them are kept in chains. I look forward to answering that question as well. In the pre-election spending wave, the government supported animal protection by HUF 1.5 billion, from which the municipalities of civil animal protection organisations, the dog control sites, the small settlements of 5000 people and the small settlements under it could benefit, as well as a great emphasis on animal protection thinking and education. Civil society animal protection organisations could submit applications for HUF 500 million for spaying, housing and operating expenses between 20 June and 20 July 2020; the aid amount was between HUF 500,000 and HUF 10 million. The application was submitted by the state-owned Herman Ottó Institute Nonprofit Kft. However, on 27 September it was published on its website that the invitation to tender had received such a large amount of tenders that the announcement of the results had been postponed for an unforeseen period. Of course, it is not possible to know what is really going on in the background, so Mi Hazak Movement is asking, and considers it particularly important that these funds go where they really are needed, so we ask that the government establish a transparent tender system for this purpose. Not only should civil society organisations in their interests receive support, but also, in the context of real competition, professionally, the best should be the winners, so that they may be able to obtain support more widely. [[15.10]] Based on this legislative proposal, the government plans to outsource the public tasks related to animal protection from the Ministry of Agriculture to a newly created foundation, which would be called the Animal Protection Foundation. The Foundation will be set up in order to perform effectively the tasks related to animal protection, which will cost more than the Ministry would have had left. The government must ensure the foundation's assets and, surprisingly, it will start providing support for the local elections in 2024. In other words, the substantial work on animal protection is likely to start at that time. The question arises what is the point of setting up the foundation now, if you do not immediately add support. The implementation and supervision of animal protection applications will be the responsibility of the Foundation, but we would not be surprised if Herman Ottó Intézet is contracted by Nonprofit Kft. in the same way as the Ministry. The form of foundation is certainly also necessary because of the 1 percent donation and other donations, but it will not be an immediate and serious source in the beginning. It is also unclear who the other objective of the Foundation, the awareness of responsible livestock farming, will be achieved. The foundation will fall under the Ministry of Justice, but at the end of last year the government gave HUF 250 million to the Ministry of Agriculture, which, with the help of the University of Veterinary Medicine, should be devoted to shaping and educating the animal protection approach and informing the public. According to the MiHazák Movement, the biggest problem in animal welfare is the irresponsible attitude of the population to animal farming, and therefore the requirement of responsible livestock farming should be imposed at a legal level, as long as the population is characterised by irresponsible livestock farming, there is an increasing need for shelters, especially in times of crisis. In addition, animal rearing should not start as an adult, but as a child. In order to develop a culture of livestock, it would be useful to have group sessions in the organisation of educational establishments from early childhood, in order to develop a system of values related to responsible pet or livestock farming. We therefore agree that the aim of the Foundation is to raise awareness of the responsibility of keeping animals, but we do not consider the instruments outlined to be sufficient. The operation of the information portal, professional conferences, the organisation of national communication and sensitivity campaigns, the promotion of scientific and educational activities, the development and coordination of training programmes, and the adoption of international good practices all sound good, but they only affect a narrower range of livestock society. Sensitivity to responsible livestock farming is most needed among the population of society that is falling apart and living in extreme poverty, as, unfortunately, animal cruelty is exponential. Most stray animals in these areas breed mushrooms because of lack of spaying, and live in vomit, malnourished, chained, or free, gangbed. The MiHazák Movement therefore misses the tasks of the Foundation, that they did not think about how they would find people living in extreme poverty and in disabling regions, because they do not follow Internet portals, participate in professional conferences, scientific activities, and even in the current system of education, they cannot or do not want to fit in. Or will the Foundation's top five staff members personally visit, for example, the no-go zones in Miskolc or Kerepes, to raise responsible livestock in the area? [[Nacsa Lőrinc: That's London!]] In 2020, it was one of the plans of the Commissioner for Government to have the police conclude contracts with local civil society activists, even to go out together in such cases. However, this idea has probably not been implemented because the police currently lack the capacity to maintain public safety, let alone to protect animals. Overall, Mi Hazank Movement can support the bill and the establishment of this animal protection foundation, but we would like to draw attention to how it will do a meaningful task by 2024 without operating support. So we would suggest that it be possible to add support already in 2023. Furthermore, the Ministry of Justice should assist in making precedent and deterrent decisions in the application of the new Animal Protection Act. The Ministry of Agriculture should cooperate with the Ministry of Interior, which manages both the area of education and law enforcement, in order to ensure that animal protection awareness-raising reaches all sections of society. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-10-04-100	Thank you very much, Congressman Szabadi. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I don't see a two-minute speaker on the monitor. I give the floor to the next representative, Mr Péter Ovádi.
u2022-10-04-101	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I thank my fellow Members for their contributions. By the way, it seems to me that our common concern in Parliament is animal protection, and we are really trying to have a professional debate with each other. As I see it, DK alone will not support the establishment of the foundation, but I hope that by the time we get to the vote, DK may change its position in this. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Come on!]] It is really about creating a foundation that will be based on professionalism. After all, we have tried to do everything we can to bring the profession and civil society organisations to our side, and what my fellow Member has said is very true that our legislative proposals have also been here, before Parliament, trying to coordinate with civil society organisations all along. I think this is very important, and I think that is what Mrs Rebecca Szabó did when she wanted to create the programme in Budapest. I think communication is very important, especially in the field of animal protection. We also know that what has been dissected here is that animal welfare is not uniform, but we still need to listen to everyone, we need to go to everyone, and everyone's opinion can be important, because we are not talking here in two or three years of time, but in a 30-year time frame. Since then, these civil society organisations have been working very well, and I think that when I walk the country, I have to listen to animal defenders everywhere, because they face different challenges, whether in Miskolc, Sopron or Veszprém, or even in Budapest, here in the capital. Congresswoman Andrea Hegedüs mentioned that she hoped that we would not distribute this resource politically. When we gave support to 67 civil society organisations, I think a lot would ask for it when we say that this was assessed on a political basis, because I said how important it is how long and what kind of activity they have been doing. Here, too, we have to distinguish between the fact that someone only operates shelters, a pedigree establishment, but someone is very good at saving, or calling for responsible livestock, but they are all very important and very important to us. And when we look at it, we're gonna confront it a little bit to give it all the support that, let's say, the foundation is gonna get, for civil society organisations, it's not supposed to be opposed to how important it is to call for responsible livestock or science in animal protection. We must not only solve animal protection today, but also in five years' time, ten years' time, and there the call for responsible livestock farming has a very important role to play, and then we need to solve as few problems as possible in that period. So I don't think we need to confront each other, but support both at the same time. We were just talking about training. Minister Judit Varga, we just announced animal protection law training in Miskolc, where she had a record number of applicants. This also shows the need for these professionals, but we also need these professionals, not only civilians but also professionals, so that we can do very good animal protection. First of all, I thank Mrs Zita Gurmai for her support for the bill. Yes, there have always been proposals from the opposition. As it turns out, we also try to do everything we can to step by step with regard to animal protection. [[15.20]] I would just like to point out one example: even though we want to spend a lot of money on neuterization, we also need a veterinarian. You, me, civilians can't neutered. So even if we try to put more money on it, we can do as much as the system can. And it is very important that we follow these steps and move forward in this respect. The animal police have come up with a lot of them. I'm still saying today that I don't support the creation of the animal police, precisely because then we'd take the NGOs out of the system. I mean, if there's an animal protection department in the police department or anything, they're exactly the ones that might be able to provide a lot better for civilians. Therefore, I agree with our fellow Member of the Parliament that cooperation between the police and civil society organisations can continue to be a solution and a pledge of this matter. Thank you very much for your contribution to my fellow Member, Ferenc Varga. Thank you very much for the support of Jobbik. You have often highlighted the importance and support of civil society organisations. We're really going to try to get ahead of this and acknowledge their work. I will turn to Ms Rebecca Szabó and thank you very much for her contribution. You haven't said it yet, but I think you're going to support the foundation's bill; we're going to advance that trust. I do not question that in Budapest you want to do everything you can for animal protection NGOs, because we cannot do well in animal protection in the country if the capital does not perform well. There are most civil society organisations here, and I also ask you to initiate programmes with the City Council where we can support these civil society organisations, because it is very important that animal protection is also in the capital. I don't want to go into politics, I just want to say that I want you to pay attention to Scented Road a little bit, because it's very important. There was such a thing as moving out, not moving out. I think he could use a little attention. Maybe we can move our case forward. We need to continue the program of the Hungarian village, as the spaying program is one of the most important cornerstones of animal protection. We also say that the best stray animal is the one that isn't born, and that can only be achieved by neutering. We've talked about the vet's office several times. I'm talking to the MAOK about this a lot. Here, too, we need the veterinarians to take it. This is the first step that we should go up, so that we can achieve that. I don't think we have to act with the power of the law here. By the way, it's a quagmire soil in this regard. I also thank my fellow Member, István Szabadi, for his contribution. Thank you for your concern, and, of course, we will do everything we can to ensure that the civilian tender is implemented, which has been asked by several people. That's why I'm going to work. When I said it, I thought so, and I think that this HUF 500 million should be paid as soon as possible, because civil society organisations applied for it, they made their application to obtain this resource. This is very helpful, because it is a pre-funded proposal, and civil society organisations are very much counting on it. I will work on it, and I will ask the government to support these civil society organisations as soon as possible. Overall, it is very important to state that the Board of Trustees of the Foundation will be composed of members who will represent the professional things. I assure Mrs Rebecca Szabó that they do not want to think in a building, because it is in the bill where the seat will be. We want to help with animal protection and provide as much resources as possible to those organisations, to those programmes that move forward in the field of animal protection. Thank you very much, everyone, and I hope that the DK parliamentary group will vote in favour, and, if so, we can also agree unanimously on this as on the amendment of the Criminal Code, because we have a common concern for animal protection. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-04-102	Thank you very much, Congressman Péter Ovadi. The next speaker is Rebecca Szabó, Member of Parliament, Dialogue.
u2022-10-04-103	Thank you very much. I just want to finish some of the thoughts I've just started and respond quickly. Congressman Péter Ovádi, Commissioner of the Government, did not say when this money would be paid to the animal protection civilians. I'm sure you'd like to be paid, so my goodwill is there for you, but I respectfully ask the government representative that if you promise 500 million, you pay it. I hope it's not that we don't have the money. Or is this also subject to a payment restriction? I don't mean it's gone because you have it. That's a penny in a country's budget. Yesterday I also mentioned: I read a day or two ago that one of the government's companies paid HUF 3 billion to buy National Sports in the last few days. That's a much bigger amount, six times. If suddenly you can buy the National Sports, I know it's the Prime Minister's favourite newspaper, then there's only such a thing as animal protection and all the country's animal protection NGOs. I would very much ask that one-sixth of this amount be made available to you, because it is a matter of life and death. I know that Mr. Peter Ovadi knows this, but the rest of us here may not. That is why I am telling them: it is a matter of life and death for the civil society organisations that protect animals to receive their support. They're facing a very difficult winter, people are poor, there's restrictions, gas prices are higher, electricity prices are higher, and they're gonna be ruined. They're gonna stop saving, and the stray animals are gonna flood the streets, and then there's gonna be dog police and killing. So, that's terrible. That's not what I want for us and for you. Only then pay for this money, it's one of them. The other one's the vet's office. Of course, I totally understand that you're obviously gonna have to check with the vets, but we didn't think we were gonna force them to do it, but rather with some kind of dotation, a positive state incentive. Obviously, this must also be discussed, and I hope that there are ways to do this. Animal Police, Animal Control. I used the word animal protection guard. We were thinking of civil society organisations that could do the same. In Budapest, the Újpest Animal Protection Patrol Service is a civil society organization that has developed very effective and very good cooperation with the police and is truly professional. The police obviously have their own driver's license, which is not going to be taken over by a civil society organisation, I know that, but this kind of enhanced cooperation could be helped, supported, and even specifically targeted applications and trainings launched. The capacity of the police is obviously bound by crimes relating to people, but I see that cooperation in this respect is also beneficial to the police, which is also helpful to them. I therefore believe that this could be developed in this direction. I would also like to mention what civil society organisations often ask for, the victim status of civil society organisations in the case of animal crimes. In many cases, it is a problem that, from the point of view of law, an animal cannot be injured. I'm not a lawyer, but I've been trying to find out that he's considered an object, because the law doesn't treat animals as an independent legal entity. It would be very important that civil society organisations that meet and address certain criteria can represent the animal's right to victimize in animal cruelty cases. It has been proven in many processes that this would be very useful. Again, I would say that it would also help law enforcement, the authorities. I'd like to list a few more cases as a matter of fact. On the one hand, I would consider it very important that wild animals are gradually removed from the circuses, so that there is no way to perform circus shows with wild animals. More decisive steps should also be taken to spread and support biological mosquito control. It's not right to ex-chemically eliminate mosquitoes. Very rarely, in some cases, it may be possible, but it is harmful to the insect world, so it should be destroyed as much as possible. The Dialogue is a green couple, and I think the fur industry is done. I know that this also offends economic interests, but I think that it should gradually lead to the breeding of animals kept exclusively for furs. I don't think it's necessary to run around in chinchilla fur, it's not a fundamental right. The hunt has already been mentioned. It's a very big topic. I would also stress that there was a special campaign in the Dialogue earlier so that dogs wouldn't be so easily fired. We don't have time to explain this any longer. Obviously, this cannot be banned overnight, but it could be limited, or it would be necessary to introduce the identification, chip, and collar of a shot dog to the local notary. I'd limit the lane in which a dog can't be fired from the interior of a residential area. It is well known that there was a dog launch in Budapest, not in the internal area, when the dog was shot from a hiker's side. Unfortunately, it wasn't a case like this. I think we should do this, too. I still consider it important to limit bee killer neonicotinoids as chemicals. In 2018, there was an EU restriction on this, but unfortunately the Hungarian government did not support it, although the protection of bees and the protection of pollinators are also very, very important. [[15.30]] And I would like to say, even in the context of large-scale livestock farming, that I know that this is also a very tough economic issue, but the 21st century is a very difficult economic issue. In the first century, we must strive to ensure that animals that eventually become food can live a somewhat dignified life. However, it would be very important for a government not to support large-scale, dumping-like livestock farming, but to encourage small-scale, land-based agriculture and grazing livestock farming. Not all farm animals are grazing, I am aware of it, obviously the pigs do not graze, but in any case support an animal farming that does not cause so much horror to the livestock. And it must also be supported, for example, that meat-free days, healthy and high-quality foods, but meat-based nutrition is not the only thing that the 21st century provides. We have to follow him in the first century. Overall, I think that humanity needs to gradually reduce its consumption of meat, otherwise it will not be sustainable. Obviously, it is very important, in parentheses, and I know that the main point of anyone who is starving is to have something to eat, and I am not going to do that here, because it would go far beyond this bill, but I must also mention the fate of livestock. And speaking of Budapest, believe me, there's a lot going on in Budapest about animal protection. We have also consulted civil society organisations, dealt with biological mosquito control, and we would have been very happy to deal with the financial support of civil society organisations, especially as regards neutering, but after the government does everything it can to deprive Budapest of its resources, and in practice, from public transport to public lighting, Budapest has to finance everything without receiving the right support from the government, it cannot take extra costs beyond its power, such as financial support from civil society organisations. I would just like to say that I thank you for the Government Commissioner's proposal, but we are paying attention to the ebrendry colony, I must say that since Gergely Christmas is the mayor, the management of the ebrendry plant, his new management is paying particular attention to animals, the farm search is going very well there. If you look at it, they have a new website, they regularly communicate on Facebook, on the website, and they really do have every effort to find a host for the animals there. They also cooperate with civil society organisations and organise training courses for workers there. So their budget is very tight, and it would be better for the government to know, let's say, support Budapest in this too, but what the financial framework allows them to do. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2022-10-04-104	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Rebecca Szabó. I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed, and if the rapporteur wishes to take the floor, I will give the floor to Mr Répássy, State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice.
u2022-10-04-105	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to respond briefly to the comments made. In particular, I thank the rapporteur for his support. By the way, Commissioner Péter Ovádi answered all the questions that were raised at the moment in the debate. And what further proposals have been made, so there have been proposals that I think are compatible with the aim of the bill, so I think that it is only possible to expand the animal protection toolbox that appears in this proposal, but this is only one of many tools. So we are also aware that this foundation is just a tool between several animal welfare institutions and animal protection devices. So thank you for your supporting contributions, and I ask that you finally vote in favour of the bill submitted to Parliament. Thank you very much.
u2022-10-04-106	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Répássy Róbert. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. A general debate will follow on the bill amending the laws relating to certain declarations of assets relating to the control of the use of EU budgetary resources until closure. The government referral T/1311. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Répássy Róbert, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame.
u2022-10-04-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, As has already been said between the walls of the House, two weeks ago a difficult, but extremely constructive and forward-looking conciliation process between the Hungarian government and the European Commission was completed within the framework of the so-called conditionality mechanism. These negotiations were successful, since the Commission concluded that the proposals submitted by the Hungarian Government will adequately address the concerns that led to the launch of the conditioning procedure. This will allow negotiations on the reconstruction fund and cohesion resources to be concluded as soon as possible. Thus, if the government fulfils its commitments, the conditionality procedure can be completed before the end of the year and our country can move to 2023 without losing funds. I must point out that the Hungarian Government remains committed to implementing the measures, in line with the timetable agreed with the Commission. Accordingly, already at the end of August, the Government started to implement the measures undertaken, and to this end the Government has already put forward several proposals to this House. This line also includes the bill to be discussed. Dear Parliament, The proposal before this House amends the provisions of the Act on Parliament and certain sectoral laws relating to the declaration of assets in the context of the modification of certain laws relating to the control of the use of EU budgetary resources. Here, please allow me to note what Mr Tamás Deutsch, Member of the European Parliament, said the other day in a more luxurious way than I, but I fully agree with his thoughts. In the summer, the rules on declaration of assets for MEPs were incorporated word for word into the domestic legal system. The Commission has now expressed its concerns about this, so the Commission does not seem to believe that the rules on the European Parliament are transparent. This finding is difficult to understand, but can only be taken into account, so we are restoring the basic procedural elements of the previous well-established Hungarian legislation, making annual declarations, closing declaration of assets, while at the same time combining the content of the declaration with the rules governing the Members of the European Parliament and the Commission. At the same time, I am confident that, in view of this, Hungarian legislation will serve as good practice for the European Parliament. The proposal changes the rules of procedure in respect of those obliged to make declarations of assets in accordance with the rules agreed by the Government with the European Commission. Thus, in the case of public officials who make declarations of assets under the rules applicable to Members of Parliament, it will also be mandatory to make declarations of assets in respect of their family members again, and the obligation to make annual declarations of assets instead of the obligation to report changes, as well as the obligation to make a final declaration of assets. The transitional provisions of the relevant laws state that the declaration of assets under the new legislation must be made for the first time by 31 January 2023. By that date, the rules of declaration in force before 1 November 2022 shall apply, i.e. they shall be subject to a change notification obligation. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this does not prejudice transparency in relation to family members, since family members' declarations of property must be kept until 1 August 2023, so the necessary data are available. Thank you for your attention, and I ask this House to support the bill. [[15.40]]
u2022-10-04-108	Thank you very much, Mr Répássy Róbert, rapporteur. The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mrs Mónika Dunai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2022-10-04-109	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, This proposal is now also an excellent proof of Brussels' double standards, inconsistencies and balloon peeling policy. In order to reach agreement with the European Commission, the proposal sets out old and new rules for declarations of assets. I would like to remind my fellow Members that, in recent years, Hungary has received a number of sharp criticisms from international organisations about the fact that the Hungarian rules on declaration of assets are not appropriate. For this reason, in the summer, the rules on declaration of assets for MEPs were actually incorporated word for word into the domestic legal system. We wanted to make sure this was appropriate. But let's see a miracle. Now the Commission has expressed its concerns in this regard. What does that mean? Ladies and gentlemen, This means that, word for word, the Commission believes that the rules on the European Parliament are inadequate, not transparent, or transparent. The Commission's thinking is indeed very difficult to understand and very difficult to follow. We can't do anything else in this situation, but now we are restoring the fundamental elements of the former, well-established Hungarian strict regulation, which, once again, had the strictest transparency in the declaration of assets in Europe. In addition, the content of the declaration was developed and proposed by the government by combining the rules governing domestic MEPs and the Commission. I am confident that, in view of this, Hungarian legislation will also serve as good practice for the European Parliament. I am very curious when MEPs will meet. I wonder when they dare to take over this strict regulation, and I wonder when they dare to confess, when they dare to be transparent, or just talk about it? Under the domestic law that is now being negotiated and which will come into force, the Member is obliged to attach to his declaration of property a statement of the same content of his/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/his/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/his/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/his/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/its/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/his/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/his/her/her/her/her/his/his/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/is/is)))))))))))))) as being, the Such a rule does not apply to MEPs. Why not? In addition, Hungarian politicians are obliged to make annual statements, contrary to the EU system, where only if the Member considers it necessary. Why only then? Another substantial difference is that while the domestic asset declaration system is based on complex structure of assets, the EU only defines income bands for MEPs, as they do not have to indicate specific amounts. Why not? In addition, according to EU standards, MEPs do not have to declare property, high value movable property, financial savings, loans and debts. Why not? I ask the question: when does the EP meet the transparency of Hungarian old-new declarations of assets? When will the Hungarian, now adopted old-new system be put on the agenda, when will this be accepted, and when will they dare to stand up to the requirements of transparency? I look forward to that day as well. And our fellow Members of the European Parliament are asked to submit a motion for a property declaration system with the same content as the Hungarian word for word, and we would like to see when this will actually be adopted. Waiting for this day, I hope that they learn from our example, if they say that this is something to be created, then show them that they are also involved in this story. Ladies and gentlemen, We'll step in, we'll accept this bill we've just tabled. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-04-110	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. I now give the floor to Mr Zsolt Gréczy, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2022-10-04-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The problem is that the Orbán government has once again embarrassed itself. It is not that, as my fellow Member, Mónika Dunai, said, the European Union has used a bad declaration of assets system that is slendrian compared to the Hungarian, and could actually leave those MEPs who would have done something wrong to the fire or be sorry! They would have stolen it. On the contrary, there is the whole system, the Western European legal system in every given country in the European Union, based on the imprisonment of corrupt politicians, the whole system being built. The problem with the legal order in Hungary is that there is no rule of law in Hungary. The European Commission is asking Hungary for these corrections because it sees EU money being stolen in Hungary. They also see that in every situation in which the European Commission or the European Parliament draws attention to Hungarian decision-makers, you are always trying to turn the story around with the European Commission's stupid congregation, the European Parliament, those people in particular, the point is that somehow the Fidest must always be followed by the whole world. That's not how the world turns out. The world is turning out to exclude Fidesz from the European People's Party. The world says that the European Parliament condemns Hungarian relations and the Orbán government by three quarters after two thirds. The same world vision also appears in a situation where you generally talk about sanctions, for example. You are now talking about sanctions as if these sanctions didn't go to Russia, while just looking at the news portals, it says how different state organisations in Russia are asking for sanctions to be lifted because they're ruined. Russia is in recession, and here you make it look like Russia is a prosperous economy, and the sanctions are actually hurting Western Europe. This kind of worldview that you represent is what the European Union, the European Parliament and the European Commission are fed up with. You don't even realize what sentences you're saying anymore. It is said that Russia does not suffer from sanctions, that you stand on the side of peace, that American speculators have invaded the opposition and that the West has shot itself in the foot. As if we were in the Hungarian Parliament in 1951, I expected from the benches of Fidesz that when Ernő Gerő spoke, he would press a button to give his opinion on this. This worldview, this worldview, is what the European Commission, the European Parliament and the European decision-making organisations in general have had enough of. You here like to criticise the European Parliament and make it look like the left is hurting the Orbán government. No, the European People's Party, your former ally, is the largest faction in the European Parliament, of which I understand even the KDNP is still a member, so KDNP is a member of an organization that now condemns the Orbán government weekly. Well, why don't you just step out of there? [[15.50]] The same is the case with regard to the declaration of assets procedure. The point is that what you have accepted this summer, on the basis of a proposal from the European Commission, is indeed similar to that. But the current situation that you are restoring is still not enough, according to the Democratic Coalition. It is similar to what may or may be called a declaration of property, but according to the Democratic Coalition, this is still not enough. For example, the declaration of relatives' assets is still unavailable, cannot be traced back to this day, and there is no register or Internet portal where, for example, Parliamentary Members and all public-law dignitaries who are forced to make a declaration of assets would be comparable to the size of the increase in wealth from one year to another. A Member of the European Parliament in any other country in Europe is in fact a loss in legal terms if a person's declaration of assets suddenly shows huge sums of money from one year to the next, or at least at least takes the risk of being struck by justice. The problem with the European Commission is that the legal service in Hungary is not safe, and the prosecution as a prosecutor's monopoly also means that there is no legal certainty in this matter that pro-government politicians have free access to EU funds and that they are taking it home nicely. Overall, this is the problem with the European Commission. You may be preparing to submit well to the European Parliament to accept Fidesz's declaration of assets and the law that you are adopting here, but it will end up laughing at you again. By the way, these types of actions do not, by any chance, help the European Commission to make the necessary payments to Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-10-04-112	Thank you very much, Congressman Zsolt Gréczy. I now give the floor to Mr János Harghitai, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2022-10-04-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, One would think that if we were discussing rules for us, of course, not only Members of Parliament are affected by the declaration of assets, but we are, in principle, trying to be a little objective. Since I am trying to do this, I obviously do not want to respond in any way to what we have heard from Zsolt Gréczy, because that would take me very far. I, too, think that the proposal that is in front of us goes back to the Hungarian system that we Members of Parliament, who have been here in Parliament for a long time, have been practicing for years and, on the other hand, takes over some of the elements of the declaration that is now in force and used once, and takes over some things from the declaration of assets for European Commissioners. A few months ago, we copied the rules on the European Parliament at the same time, since that is where we get the most criticisms, not from the Commission, but the criticism of the rule of law is basically from Parliament to Hungary and the members of the Hungarian Parliament, so we well-intentionally copied their proceedings. But, as Mónika Dunai clearly pointed out, the European Commission itself does not agree with the procedure followed by the European Parliament, so it encourages Hungary, and I have no problem with that, to bring back the old declaration system much more. In fact, I would add that we will enrich even the old one when we bring some of the rules on European Commissioners into the Hungarian system. The former Hungarian system was nothing more opaque, it contained nothing less data than in a real rule of law, but it was still critical. We are now basically taking another step towards the old one so that we can agree with the European Commission. I see this opportunity, but at the same time I am sure that the European Parliament will continue to do everything in its power to prevent this agreement from being reached between the European Commission and the Hungarian Government. But let's be well-intentioned, change the property declaration procedure. However, before I point out some of the aspects of the asset declaration procedure, the movements, I will bring back to you what is behind all of this, and these are the rules of conflict of interest. Because the system of declaration of assets is not only floating in such a way, but is also based on a system of conflicts of interest in the European Parliament, in the Hungarian Parliament, and, obviously, on the basis of the logic of the regulation in relation to the representatives of all other states of law. The rules of conflict of interest tell a Member of Parliament what he can do in addition to his representative's activities, and what he cannot do, because of what he does, his income comes from, and this income is obviously presented in this declaration of assets. My fellow Members know the Hungarian system perfectly. The chapter on Members of the Parliament Act, which was created in 2012, clearly describes what a Member of Parliament can and cannot do. To give you just one example, and to mention this example on purpose, because I bring it from the Hungarian Parliament: a Member of Parliament cannot perform veterinary activities, but he can teach in college, he can earn income as a violinist, and he can do activities as an ancestor, he can be a member of the government, and he can earn income from it. [[Dr. László György Lukács: This law is so broken!]] Basically, if I put aside activities that are not related to government functions now, I can say that it can only carry out educational and artistic activities and that it can still have an income in addition to the activities of its representatives. So strictly by law, we have a two-thirds law. What is in the European Parliament, on the other hand, how are conflicts of interest rules regulated? I quote to you the appropriate legislative article from the European Parliament. Then pay attention to the comical nature of the situation:. If the personal interest of an MEP does not have an appropriate impact on the performance of the tasks of its Members of the European Parliament, then there is a conflict of interest. This is the concept of rubber which regulates conflicts of interest in the European Parliament. If, in this concept of rubber, the European representative were to take the necessary steps to resolve the situation, he would do the following:. If a Member finds that there is a conflict of interest in his case, he would immediately take the necessary steps to resolve the situation. To remedy this procedure in accordance with the European Code. In other words, it is left to the MEP to judge himself that a conflict of interest situation has been created in his case, which is strictly governed by a law. In our case, looking at our asset statement, anyone can initiate a conflict of interest proceeding against us in the light of conflict of interest rules, which could result in a loss of office. It has not occurred in the practice of the Hungarian Parliament, but Hungarian law gives us the opportunity to do so. There are no such procedural options in the European Parliament. So where we receive great criticisms of the rule of law, these soft rules work, and these soft rules are based on their declaration of assets procedure. Turning to our rules, we can easily deal with the issue, because the annex to the Parliamentary Act regulates how we have done so far and in the future we will do a declaration of assets procedure. This Subpart applies to real estate. It should be noted here that the law now in force, which is still based on the system of MEPs, has taken this out of the system, since MEPs do not literally make a declaration of property, they do not account for their real estate, their movable property, but we will do so again in the future, following the old Hungarian practice, as has been said, and we will also make annual declarations of assets. [[16.00]] However, there is also a narrowing here. I don't know, but there is also a reduction, and this reduction refers to the rules on declarations of assets for European Commissioners. If my fellow Members look at point 1, that is, point 1 of the property statement, where we account for our properties, and now let's talk about the most important real estate, residential properties, we have reported all of our properties. Now in the declaration of assets, there is a reduction, and he says that the properties in which the Member lives, his family lives, his children, his wife lives, should not be accounted for in the future, because this rule has been adopted under the rules of the European Commissioners. So they provide information about their own properties, but in which they live their lives, they do not. For the record, this is the kind of statement we all have on the website, so I don't really see the point of this narrowing here. The situation from a year ago shows that state of affairs for me, but I should not do so in my nearest declaration of assets because of the reduction, because we are taking over the rules on European Commissioners here. Obviously, in the future, we will not only account for our properties in the portfolio, in a narrow declaration of assets; motor vehicles, vessels, aircraft, other movables, securities, savings cooperative deposits, cash, account claims, other large assets, and I still have to talk about debts, whether public debt, debt to a credit institution or private debt. The logic of the whole follows the old system, which we know well, and is much richer than any state that is considered a European rule of law. The next part of the declaration of assets is the income declaration. Here we will keep the practice that we have already taken over with regard to MEPs with this band declaration system. Then we declare in part (c) our economic interests and other interests in section (d). I would like to draw the Government's attention here to the fact that it might be appropriate to clarify the whole Annex 1, because the headline in Annex 1 is about a declaration of assets, an economic interest statement, and we are not only making an economic declaration of interest, but also making other declarations of interest. So if we're gonna be accurate, we're gonna put this on the front page of the asset statement. Here I am thinking about our membership of the Association and everything that might in some way affect our parliamentary representatives' activities through the network of interests. In summary, I can tell you that we are returning to the practice that we have practiced for a long time, and I think that we have all done well. This system is compatible, let alone with the European Parliament's system, which is much richer compared to any European country's system. And I said another sentence, and I repeat: the system that we are building takes over the elements of the rules on European Commissioners, which, by the way, are stricter than Members of Parliament there, and combines these three systems, all in order to reach an agreement between Hungary and the European Commission. If I move from being president of the immunity committee, I can tell you that I do not mind in any way that we return to a richer system than we did yesterday. Members who have nothing to hide and I think that Hungarian Members of Parliament are like this can and must be able to come to the public of the country by any system of declaration of assets. Thank you for your attention. [[Mónika Dunai applauds.]]
u2022-10-04-114	Thank you very much, Congressman János Harghitai. I now give the floor to Mr Zoltán Vajda, the lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2022-10-04-115	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Colleagues, I would like to talk about three things about this law, and I am trying to be structured. The first, briefly, is how, in my belief, we have come here, that you have brought this bill before this House; by the way, you have said this roughly factually, expressing your own feelings very nicely. That would be the first thought I'd like to make. Secondly, I have some concrete comments on their draft law; and the third, perhaps not surprisingly: I will appreciate what I think this draft law is and what it can be used for. (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.) The first is how we got here. I really listened with interest to the thoughts that seemed terribly sincere, either to Mr Répássy, and then to Mrs Mónika Dunai, and to János Harghitai, as Chairman of the Committee on immunity. I'd just like to say one personal thought first, and I'm sure the law doesn't. If there's any topic that I want to settle with someone else, because it's important for me to agree on, it doesn't matter what topic it is, and that other person has a few requests for me to fulfill them in order to make a deal, then if I really want to settle with that other person, then there are two things I'm not gonna do: I'm not scolding the other person, and I'm not gonna stress that I'm just gonna be forced to meet his expectations. I have heard from you, all three of you, as I have just said, saying out loud, why they are bad, what they want, insulting the Union's expectations of why they are bad, what they are asking for, and stressing that they are only forced to bring them here because they are demanding it, but that is not good. I'm telling you, away from the draft law, and away from the subject, I'm sure it's not the right thing to do if someone really wants to agree with another party on something. So, how did we get here? We have come here by calling for more and more tough action against Hungary, certainly compared to the last decade. I would also like to clarify Hungary in a way that is more against you, the Hungarian government. They love Hungary, and that is why they are trying to turn the Hungarian government into a better way in some way. And the latest step is to withdraw 3000 billion forints. We also need to see that you have just said how hard the European Union Parliament has shown. In its last report, 73.5 percent of the Members who cast the vote stated that Hungary is not a state of law, but an election autocracy. If I can bring here a half-sentence of personal sentences from our discussion with the Harghita MEP in another forum, at the budget committee meeting on Monday, where the Member spoke of the overwhelming majority of the European Parliament representing another side, then let me tell you that 73.5 percent is true, then the votes of the People's Party are also included, not the Balliberals, I do not know what other signs have been voted on, but 73.5 percent is included. So, these are the circumstances that need to be taken into account when examining the content of the bill. The question is not only the content, but also the ability to improve the state of the rule of law in Hungary. And even though I promised to give my evaluation at the end, I will say one sentence of evaluation here, that to this question, whether this regulation will substantially improve the rule of law in Hungary or not, my answer is that it is definitely and unfortunately not. Let me make some concrete comments then on their draft law or on their proposal, because once again, the aim would be to ensure that European Union funds arrive in some way, the resources that we all think or apologize for, I am sure on my behalf, on behalf of my group, I can say that we are entitled to Hungary, but let us accept that the decision-makers in Brussels, who are watching over the EU taxpayers' money, want to give them only to a country where you know that the money will get to people and not the government will live on it. [[16.10]] So, what's the history of this proposal? Well, on the recommendation of the pro-government representatives, in June 2022, T/369. You have ruined the transparency of the declarations of assets by demanding much less information from the parties to the declaration of assets. I remember well that at that time, when the bill was presented, Máté Kocsis argued that these were rules which were otherwise applied in the EU Parliament and even in Germany, so that there would not be an objection to the rule of law. Well, it is important to point out that in Hungary there were no consequences of a breach of strict declaration of assets rules. We can also give concrete examples, otherwise, without naming the Member. Once again, let me make it clear to my fellow Member from Harghita that you said that, let me say, the Member may have two other types of income that could be artistic activity or teaching activity. Well, I can get one of those from the second chair on the left, who has excellent inventors' incomes, I'm sure he can make a brilliant, big income out of it, and I'm sure he'll work for it. So, the rule of law excuse did not come from what had to be written in the declaration of property, but from the fact that the declarations did not reveal the actual wealth of politicians, could leave out details without consequences, could hide data, and partly as a result, corruption remained undiscovered, or if, let's say, the declaration of property had turned out to be something, then the low efficiency of investigations into corruption had left them without any consequences. So in short, the problem arises from the fact that the declaration of assets cannot fulfil the function it serves, that is to say, that the propertyisation of Members can be monitored by anyone in such a way that, in the event of anomalies, they have actual legal consequences. Making these declarations of property even more opaque certainly did not help. And then there is this present bill, which must be examined in the light of previous changes in the declarations of assets, i.e. through the fact that the declarations of assets are not fit to fulfil their functions. The extension of an unfit asset to several persons or the increase in the obligor circle does not lead to a meaningful result. Thus, the proposal is substantially inadequate to improve the rule of law in Hungary and to increase transparency. This proposal uses a very specific solution for property declarations, in particular for family property declarations, because family members' declarations of property are not public. This would be justified in itself, let us say, for the protection of personal data, but on the one hand it is a problematic legal institution that we are talking about, and on the other hand, in relation to the proceedings against the family member's declaration of property, the proposal chooses the solution that the competent parliamentary committee, your committee, the immunity or constitutional proceedings may be introduced during the declaration of assets procedure. [[Sic!]] by the members of the committee. Therefore, this declaration of assets procedure may be initiated by anyone, but it is necessary to indicate by means of a statement of fact relating to the specific content of the declaration of assets, which specifically indicates the contested part and content of the declaration of assets, but only a member of the competent committee may access the family's declaration of assets during the procedure relating to the declaration of assets. So in a sentence, if I understand correctly, the proposal requires the originator to indicate, let us say, a problematic part of the property declaration, that he cannot even look into the family member's declaration of property, and it is questionable that he could at all object to the family member's declaration of property. That would be my general comment on the plan. In summary, I would like to say what I said earlier in a sentence that, in my view, in order to achieve the objective of the proposal, that is to achieve the full and long-term acquisition of EU funds, this is completely inappropriate, because the extension of a system of declarations of assets that is already wrong and without consequences will certainly not lead to this result. This has only formal value, it certainly does not serve the transparency of the Hungarian state. Before I say thank you very much for listening, let me make a personal comment. I am going to leave you here in this debate, but please do not think that I am not interested in the debate; as they say, I am going to perform an urgent public task, we are holding a public forum. We hold resifórums, you know, because Hungarian people find it difficult to pay the rent you promised them that we would not have to do higher, and what we will do is give advice to the people. I'm sorry, people are waiting for me at five o'clock, but I will look back at the content of the debate with interest. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2022-10-04-116	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László György Lukács, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2022-10-04-117	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! I would like to put the meaning and the underlying content of this draft legislation in a slightly different perspective from those before me. This is necessary, in my opinion, because no legislation can be taken out of the whole legal system and interpreted in itself. It is rather strange that it is the Minister of Justice who is doing this, and the pro-government representatives have certainly, at least until now, thought to be in favour of it. I sincerely hope that if you listen carefully to my argument system, you will review your position. It is not that we should not, unfortunately, touch on the declaration of assets system for many times, and it must be recognised that the current rules, but before, were not suitable to prevent any abuse. In my opinion, the current proposal will not create clear relations either, and it also has serious contradictions with regard to the whole legal system. Ladies and gentlemen, As you know, at the end of December 2007, a law was adopted to address the transparency of public funds and is still in force. This legislation discriminates between public officials excluded from the aid and not excluded from the aid, such as Members of Parliament. This is the law 8. § (1) (b) and (c) provides that if an application is submitted by a Member of Parliament or any member of his family, the fact of this shall be published on a website operated by the Government. You know what I mean? Therefore, according to this legislation, it should also be public information if it is to apply for funds available through the tender procedure for the declaration of assets, whether from public finances, from EU funds or from a foundation created by a 100% state-owned organisation. It would therefore be appropriate and logical to include information on applications already submitted in the declarations of assets. I think that, using the language used by the above-mentioned law, it would be expected that all public officials who are not, so to speak, excluded from public funding should indicate this fact in the current declaration of assets. And in this context, allow me to refer to the relevant provisions of the law on legislation:. When drafting legislation, it must be ensured that the legislation is incorporated into the legal system. Paragraph 4 (b) states. Almost everyone, however, knows the saying, at least the beginning, that it is good to fish in confusion, but it actually continues this way: but it is necessary to make a round in time. Well, dear fellow Members, I think it would be appropriate not to think about when and how they can make a roundabout, hiding from the public, from the public, but how to finally create transparent relations. However, this is not the way you are going now, nor is this the way you are looking for. Dr. János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee on immunity here, said almost three months ago that, in relation to the system of declaration of assets raised to the legal level at that time, the motive is that you wish to bow down to the high conditions of the rule of law dictated by the European Parliament. Finally, allow me to present the proposal before us, perhaps most serious for the lawyer's eye, a funny contradiction, if you can put it that way. I am obliged to highlight this because it is an exclusive example of what kind of work their immediate compliance with the Commission has resulted in. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: It is, of course, a commendable thing in itself. They do so, however, according to the explanatory statement, in accordance with the rules agreed with the European Commission in the context of the monitoring of the use of EU budgetary resources. But the Act on Government Administration 3. Paragraph 3 (c) states, for example, that the political senior leader is the political director of the Prime Minister. Please, let us ignore the fact that the person in question is also a Member of Parliament and, as such, must make a declaration of property, because legislation should not necessarily be personalised. [[16.20]] And then I am obliged to draw your attention here, either to your helpful intentions, or to the attention of the political director at all times, that, as all political top leaders, the aforementioned Public Aid Transparency Act 2. § (1) (d) shall be deemed to be a public official excluded, i.e. he shall neither be eligible for or eligible for funding. How, then, is it possible that it is precisely because of the legislation that has been drawn up in connection with the control of the use of EU budgetary resources that it must make a declaration of assets when it cannot not only receive or apply for such support? All in all, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I propose that the draft be freed, with our help, from serious professional contradictions, taking into account the provisions of the legislative law. That is why we are proposing amendments so that such anomalies can be eliminated, we propose and support them. Let me say this in a sentence to what has just been unfolding here, and for eight years now, I have been watching the debate on conflict of interest, and so let me also speak on behalf of the number of attorneys now in decline. I find it extremely unfair and detrimental that a lawyer as a profession is incompatible with the work of the Members of Parliament, especially where we make legislation, where, if a law has a problem, a lawyer can bring it in here by removing problems in the application of the law, and he can propose amendments to the legislation that we have created, whether it works well or not, but can in any case change it in a credible and well-meaning manner based on experience from practice. If there really was a need somewhere to avoid conflicting with one of the highest branches of the legal profession that I have considered, lawyering, then this would be the place. I believe that I am speaking here also instead of those who do not know from the pro-government benches, because it cannot be said to them that if there was ever a possibility to review conflict of interest rules, if there was only one possibility, this conflict of interest rule should be removed, it should be given the opportunity for those lawyers, and we can safely say pro bono, to provide free legal representation that facilitates their professional development and which helps their representatives work, thereby increasing the quality of legislation in Parliament and helping all of us to work together in public life by improving the quality of the laws adopted here in Parliament and increasing the level of debate. Thank you very much.
u2022-10-04-118	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr President Novák, the lead speaker of the group of our country. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-10-04-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The war of freedom is over, the government is kneeling down to Brussels. The amendments to the law, the dictators that are being pushed through the Hungarian National Assembly, as well as the national self-determination, are coming from Brussels. This is extremely humiliating, but the biggest downfall of all legislative amendments to the current Hungarian government is that, after replacing the hypocritical, corruption-enhancing declaration system with an even less transparent system in July, the EU declaration system would have to be called even a sleek troll in this sense, but perhaps legislation should be continued with more professionalism. In view of all of this, it is particularly spicy that, after a few months, they are able to apply the EU's example of European Parliament once again to the previous regulation, which is now referred to as the old, well-established system. But then, in July, why did they throw it in the trash? Not just because, with the current legislation in July, the obligation of family members to make declarations of property has been abolished, the exact amount does not have to be indicated to Members, but only the income band, there is no need to declare the incomes, loans, debts, real estate, large-value movable property, savings. So, in fact, the shame is that it can now be called a declaration of property, where there is no need to talk about wealth in one word, at the most, about income, but only about a band of it. But what hundreds of millions of dollars or even billions of dollars of wealth a pro-government or Balliberal opposition oligarch has, there is no need to say a word about it, and it is not ashamed to call it an asset declaration system in the system currently in force, which you voted on a few months ago. Of course, both the new, currently in force and the old and expected to be in force again contain a number of errors. As an example, it is not possible to search; so this is not, to put it mildly, a XXI. On the one hand, we can see pen-written, often illegible declarations of assets, because the current system allows this, and on the other hand, the electronic filling system of the Parliament looks like that after being electronically filled in, we print it, sign it with a pen, and then scan it. But not even with character recognition, as they did ten years ago on Parliament's website, but directly not even with character recognition, so that they couldn't find it by accident, it's harder to look for it with search engines or any IT device or software. Of course, the most important thing is that even if they restore the obligation of family members to make declarations of property, it is unacceptable that it is essentially encrypted and kept in the Parliament's safes, because this was the previous system, and this is what you are proposing again, which is unacceptable. The MiHazák Movement urges that, in the case of a person living in a household, in a community of property, the declaration of property of the politician's relative should be made public, not kept in the safe of Parliament, encrypted. We have seen examples of the registration of property in the name of a minor relative, and we may have a number of tricks, and we will therefore put an end to this proposal to amend it again, although you voted against it in July, but we are trying to do this again. And we have an even more juicy proposal, which we are not going to overlook, and that is to say, that Members of Parliament and their families may have to declare any other dual or even multiple citizenship, so that it can be clearly seen who has what constraints and who, let's say, has built a kind of escape route for himself, say, an African banana republic. We do remember the case of the former Secretary of State, Deputy President of MSZP, Gábor Simon, who has not only fallen by hundreds of millions of forints, which we still do not know is that it was a bribe from the MSZP or his personal corruption income, we still do not know. Just as it did not reveal how this passport came to be added from a particular banana republic in Africa and served its purpose. If we knew that someone had such a nationality, it would at least give us some thought to why he would build himself such an escape route, let's just say, or perhaps an offshore business, obviously. So we would like to propose this proposal once again as an amendment to your attention. And speaking of diplomatic passports and MSZP, I can see that you don't like it here for MSZP colleagues, but let's talk, because you were here... Or do only DK colleagues now show solidarity with their former party? Well, in any case, we can also remember the famous case of Zsolt Legány, who is also diplomatically passported... He was no longer a Member of Parliament, but somehow the Fidesz government still served him with a valid diplomatic passport. These mergers should also be investigated. In any case, although he didn't have a diplomatic passport, the MSZP's former MP got busted years later, smuggled cigarettes, found 11,000 packs of cigarettes in his car, but he wasn't there, or he was there, but he didn't know it. It's a very lifelike explanation. He smuggled cigarettes on the Ukrainian border using his diplomatic passport. So I think, yes, we need to investigate these. Then we could mention that we shouldn't run so far, from here on the opposition benches, Szabó Timea has been accused more than once by the CIA agency, he's been suspected like this. As last time, the president of Jobbik, Márton Gyöngyösi, was named CIA agent by Jobbik's last hero in 56 or, well, he's been kicked out, he's gone, Levente Murányi. In any case, the last time he called Márton Gyöngyösi, the current president of Jobbik, a CIA agent. Thus, the service of foreign interests has been raised in connection with many. Or, for example, there is the case of Peter Márki-Zay, so let us give you one last example. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: He was a candidate for Prime Minister of DK!]] His foreign citizenship, his dual citizenship, was only revealed after the primary election, after his election as Prime Minister candidate. So you've kept the electorate practically from other people's citizenship. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Klára Dobrev is also a dual citizen!]] So you should see this clearly, and it's very spicy that he has never sworn to the Hungarian Fundamental Law, to the Constitution, only to the Canadian, because he was born into Hungarian citizenship, but he swore to the Canadian. [[16.30]] So this raises questions, and the minimum is that we want to see it clearly. Therefore, we would include this under the obligation to make declarations of property, and as the names of the relatives should also be stated, so should citizenship be declared. We believe that this is a basic proposal, this is a more or less modest proposal, by the way, but this is the position of our country. Let's just say, if you look at the Israeli example, you don't just have to make a statement there, but if it turns out that someone has another nationality, you'll lose your other citizenship or your parliamentary mandate. So our proposal is rather moderate, which only wants to be clear about the possible other nationality of Members. We are presenting this to you as a kind of compromise proposal, respecting that you tolerate various CIA agents and dual citizenships in Hungarian politics. Unfortunately, in view of this, given the power situation, for now we would only demand with great respect that voters at least have a clear view of possible other citizenship. Finally, I would like to draw attention to a legal problem, as all amendments to the legislative proposal appear as an addition without predating the repeal of the provisions currently in force at least in relation to the date indicated there. I think that there is something to be done on this proposal, but if only the two amendments mentioned above are taken into account, so the publicity of the family's declaration of assets, because we are talking about a community of property in the case of politicians, we want the publicity of the declaration of property of family members living in a household, as well as the compulsory declaration of any other nationality of Members, it could also promote transparency and the suppression of political crime. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-10-04-120	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2022-10-04-121	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is a DK pace, honourable Member, what you are doing, because it is precisely DK who is attacking, for example, citizenship across the border. Since we have given our Hungarian brothers and sisters across the border citizenship, we cannot attack the institution of dual citizenship. You are now in the position of Slovak and Ukrainian, soul on it, you can do such a thing calmly. He moved to say that exactly those Hungarian brothers living in Transylvania or Vojvodina, for example, are Romanian and Hungarian citizens. It was in 2010, that amendment of the law made it possible to unify the nation. Zsolt Gréczy has been attacking this since then, but exactly from the moment the unification took place, we cannot attack the institution of dual citizenship on the basis of our principle. It's too bad our country has come this far, I'm sorry. On the other hand, I would like to draw the honourable Member's attention to the responsibility of the Member's mandate: to fill out the declaration of property in such a way that it is true, no matter in what format. The ridiculous thing the European Commission is now pretending is not to recognize its own, but it considers ours to be good. You, together with the entire Balliberal opposition, have been attacking the Hungarian property declaration system for years. When we replaced it with the European Union and partly with the German, it was the European Union who said that it should not be, yet yours was better what was before. Well, we're going back here, I think it's a dog comedy, but if that's what it takes, we're in front of it, just like we've had our declarations of assets here for years, and they've been on the website, which, for example, has to include a laptop for its representatives; that's what I would recommend to the Member. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-04-122	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr. President Novak in two minutes. Here you go.
u2022-10-04-123	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Nacsa Lőrinc can do better than that, so I'm gonna need you to pull yourself together. For example, we operated the Kettosallampolgarsag.hu website to create dual citizenship of Hungarians across the border when Fidesz did not cross a blade of grass in order to have dual citizenship, even though there were two-thirds votes, even during the MSZP-SZDSZ government, after the referendum initiated by the MSZ. So, I think that Parliament would have had an obligation, even if it was not legal, but had a moral obligation to put in place the dual citizenship for which Fidesz did not do anything until it came to the government, unfortunately, even though in various two-thirds votes, such as the unread vote on the EU Constitution, it could, of course, have made this conditional. As far as making a declaration relating to the declaration of assets is concerned, it is possible to make an exception, of course, to the Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin, if you consider it necessary. In my opinion, this is not necessary, so anyone coming to the Hungarian Parliament, the church of the nation, would, of course, undertake to have a Romanian citizenship as a Transylvanian born, and there is nothing to hide about it, and it would obviously not be a secret to the Romanian, Slovak, Ukrainian authorities if one of their citizens came to the Hungarian Parliament that it had Hungarian citizenship. So I think that you should not try to inspire Hungarians from abroad here, because we have a very good relationship, and I think it is rather your shame that, although we could call the Hungarian Parliament a national assembly from 2014, it was never considered necessary for a real foreign Hungarian to be sent to the National Assembly. The closest we were to this was Gyula Popély, who almost got to the church of the nation. The person you usually point at is a Transylvanian Hungarian who moved to Budapest. So I think that it would really be justified and it would be good if the Hungarian Parliament were also members of foreign Hungarians. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-10-04-124	Thank you. Dear Parliament, As no one has applied for a further two-minute speech, I now give the floor to Members in the normal time frame; first István Apáti, Member Mi Hazank Movement. Here you go.
u2022-10-04-125	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In recent weeks, I have seen that Congressman Nacsa is constantly in a mood of discontent, or at least trying to wash the left-wing opposition and the opposition party to the right of Fidesz, the Hungarian Movement. I would ask you to break off with this bad habit until it is so rooted that you will no longer be aware of it when you make a comment, to blur these opposing forces on different moral and political bases together. Indeed, what you said could, on the one hand, be resolved or avoided by placing it in an exception circle, but what my colleague, Mr President Novák, has outlined here is not only interesting from the point of view of property declaration, but also not the most interesting or most serious in this regard. It is safe to call this a matter of national security or national security risk, because, for example, exploring it would be extremely interesting and instructive for all Members to say that, perhaps, Péter Márki-Zay's Canadian citizenship could not be the subject of CIA strings [[Nacsa Lárinc: Why not Dobrev's Klara?]] 'Cause maybe we've heard of CIA methods like this, 'cause they're running Canadian citizenship off-limits to some high-ranking or low-ranking co-worker. Otherwise, it could be raised not only from the point of view of the declaration of assets, but also from a conflict of interest point of view, that, where appropriate, certain public-law offices, with the exception of those occupied by the Trianon peace dictatorship, should not be held up or returned to these baseless arguments, which are also nationals of other countries. For example, what is going on with Péter Márki-Zay, for example, is that, let's say, he took an oath on the Canadian Constitution, and he may not only have a public, political, but also an emotional, moral commitment to other countries, in his case specifically Canada, that really raises those concerns [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Bulgaria!]] In the event of a Hungarian-Canadian conflict of interest or a Hungarian-North Atlantic conflict of interest. Or I hear Congressman Nacsa yelling here that Klára Dobrev may also have Bulgarian citizenship, and this raises some concerns, regardless of whether, again, with the exception of the territories attached to the Trianon peace dictator, there really is a Member of Parliament, State Secretary, Member of any other nationality, dual or plurality, or of some senior state leader, who may not be primarily concerned about the declaration of assets or propertyisation, but about national security concerns. So it would be worthwhile to have a profound political debate about this, whether the Hungarian Parliament does not want to tighten the rules of conflict of interest in this sense, precisely so that people supported by either the CIA or other secret services could not gain political influence, by chance, be state leaders of high rank. [[16.40]] I know it's a very delicate subject, and you don't really like to talk about it, but for our country movement, it's not a taboo issue. Nor should we be honest with you, ladies and gentlemen, whether we look at the July regulation that has been changed to dew-weakness, or with the bad Hungarians that have been readjusted to pressure in Brussels: we are looking at undone rules, and it does not tell us much about the financial situation of a Member. It's kind of like less or much more paperwork to ask someone, "Dude, did you do something wrong, do you have any illegal assets, disposal over black money?" No. Then you're free to go. There's nothing wrong with that. Thus, there is little to be done here, without a comprehensive, genuine propertyisation test, either in the case of Members of Parliament or in the case of those with a higher office or in the case of those with a higher public authority. Undoubtedly, what was accepted in July did not really reach a level below the minimum level, because when we talk about income bands, we did not have to account for any movable or immovable property, then it would have been almost all the same, it was just one step away from completely abolishing this system. Now, to no small surprise, even under pressure from Brussels, this will be brought back in the same way. But to give just one example, reflecting what Commission President Hargitai said: if someone resorts to the trick of officially registering several of his family members who have previously lived in a common household for permanent residence in various properties, would it be that, when it comes to residences of family members, only a family house or an apartment would be covered by the exception that it does not have to appear in the declaration of property? Because obviously this can also be explained by the sanctity of private and family life, and the rest of it is sublime, whether with human rights principles or constitutional freedoms, but if, say, one or more of your spouse or one or more of your children are registered in different properties, these family members establish permanent residence there, not only one, but also a large number of property of high value, individually and individually, of high value. Let's be honest, at the moment, the strange thing is that the press has the power, or power, of the most powerful asset management review that it has left. An investigative journalist can find out more unpleasant things about Members, regardless of the party position of these Members, really completely independent of what we can learn from the various declaration of assets procedures. It is also worth considering which other activities of interest are listed in the work of its representatives, whether we further narrow down in this respect, tighten further, or, in the case of certain occupations or professions, I deliberately do not want to say specific professions, because I do not want to be quick to make a statement, perhaps we can be more agreeable or the majority of governments can be. Technically, I can't remember the last 32 years being corrected if I'm wrong, who were already Members before 2010, there's not much to know about a serious breach of obligations linked to a declaration of assets. So anyone who failed, or even had a sustained increase in blood pressure due to constant pressure, wasn't exactly like that. Indeed, once it can be improved, amended, supplemented by not too powerful legal institutions are these. If it is a truly independent tax authority or a designated body, no matter what we call it, not every four years or at some intervals, because that other side of the horse requires and conscientiously conducts property studies, it may reveal a few interesting things or an official increase in assets that is not proportional to demonstrable income. As otherwise, the current system misleads the press, or, for example, less familiar or completely untraveled journalists in land ownership, for example, in the outskirts of land, are confused with this story because they tend to refer to the proportion of property acquired several times at different times in one and the same agricultural property as if it were more real estate. In other words, if a person acquires a share of property in a forest or ploughing or pasture area, say, four, five, six, eight, ten contracts, in an undivided common-owned area several times, and if we add up that after eight contracts, we may be talking about only a few hectares of space or territory, the less thorough journalist may seem to be six, eight, ten or who knows how many property owners he owns, which is far from the same as the representative actually has to report. So even such exaggerations may occur. And the fact that journalists often cannot, let's say, calculate the share of the property in the idea, how much of the total area of the property in question is the representative's specific property, because many times several tables of tens or hundreds of hectares are really insignificant, they can again be misleading. Now, I'm going to tell you the other extreme, when, in any case, developments that may seem to be a serious increase in wealth or wealth actually represent just a few hectares of land, depending on whether the journalist is sufficiently thorough or superficial, and there is no one to enlighten him in this regard. By the way, I must admit that it was masculine, with the strength of the novelty that I heard here from Congressman Luke, because it means that the rules have been much stricter and more restrictive according to a regulation that has been in force since 2007 than most Members may have known. So I would like to ask either the Secretary of State or the President of the Commission of Harghitai for a clear resolution on this matter, whether now or later, because it could obviously take a more serious time to do exactly what a Member in office, whether starting on different applications, has already submitted a proposal, what other declaration, reporting obligations he may have at the time of receiving the aid, or what exclusional reasons he may have, because it has a significant influence on the participation of an in-Office Member in different tenders. Thank you very much.
u2022-10-04-126	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Gréczy, DK Group. Here you go.
u2022-10-04-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I have two or three brief remarks. One: if the relationship between dual citizenship and political parties has already emerged, I would like to point out that I still remember the Fidesz, which, in 1990, left the Hungarian National Assembly and was the only party. No one else has gone out to this word, "Trianon"; Fidesz felt that this was very embarrassing and they prefer to withdraw. I also remember when János Áder said that those who accept the consequences of taxation here should receive Hungarian citizenship. This is your future President of the Republic. And I also remember when Viktor Orbán was already Prime Minister when, in 2001, János Martonyi, then Minister of Foreign Affairs, wrote a letter to the Venice Commission announcing that the Orbán government had no intention of introducing dual citizenship. So I would just like to say that it will not be good to always try to adapt our own to the current worldview of Fidesz. Just because someone else is changing their cloaks doesn't necessarily mean that everyone should do it. Finally, a brief comment on the property declaration. Indeed, as many of my opposition fellow Members have said, the problem is that there is no consequence of a bad declaration of property or an inaccurate declaration of property, and no one has ever failed to say that they have lied about any property, property or anything like it, investment. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] So I think that there is definitely a way to move forward. This kind of tightening up, compared to the summer, is welcome, but the Democratic Coalition is of the opinion that this could still be much better, more detailed, for example by providing access, tracing, comparability and accountability to family declarations on a legal and political basis. Thank you very much.
u2022-10-04-128	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask if someone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[There's no signal. Nacsa Lőrinc: You should have.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. [[16.50]] I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State that, as rapporteur, he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor.
u2022-10-04-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm not cynical in saying that many valuable thoughts have been made. I really think that this declaration of assets debate will follow the history of the entire Hungarian Parliament. I myself took part in several of these debates, and about twenty years ago, I even led an ad hoc committee dealing with the growth of Members' wealth. So I've listened to a lot of such debates. And it is quite unusual that we are about to introduce a third declaration system within a year, but I started my speech, by keeping our national sovereignty and within the framework of our self-determination, the government has agreed with the European Commission, and I think that it is not too expensive for us to correct our declaration system. What the government has tabled is not entirely the same as what we have previously repealed, and which has received many criticisms, but also combines the elements of property declarations that have been developed by the Hungarian Parliament and partly by the European Union Parliament and Commission. So this is a mixed system, which, perhaps not least, is added as an important element to the control of this declaration of assets. So the new options are still ahead of us, in the sense that the reality of the declaration of assets really needs to be audited, so to speak. This is in the interest of all of us, because those who make a declaration of wealth, not only in the event of a conflict, in the event of an attack related to it, but also in the case of an audit, so to speak, for all time, that his declaration of property corresponds to reality. So I think it is in our interest to make this amendment. Dear House, I believe that if you consider the point of this proposal, namely the agreement with the European Commission, then I think that we can bear the fact that this year we are introducing the third declaration of assets, although only in January next year such declaration of assets will be made when we are making a declaration of assets, or at least according to the old, repealed law, everyone would have made a declaration of assets. So I ask you to look at the purpose of the proposal, to see agreement with the Commission, and to help the Commission to overcome its doubts. Of course, we will draw the conclusion from it that we also demand that the same standard be set against other Member States or the parliaments of the European Union, but I think that this is not the time, but it is time for the adoption of the law to help this agreement. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-10-04-130	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law between Hungary and the Principality of Andorra on the avoidance of double taxation and the publication of the Convention on the prevention of tax evasion and evasion in the field of income taxes will follow. The government referral T/1201. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Norbert Izer, Minister of State of the Ministry of Finance, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2022-10-04-131	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, The Convention with the Principality of Andorra on the avoidance of double taxation on income taxes and on the prevention of tax evasion and avoidance is hereby established in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 19/2018. The mandate was given by Prime Minister's Decision No. The Convention was signed in Andorra la Vella on 8 October 2021 following negotiations between the two parties in Budapest. On the Hungarian side, following the signing of the Convention, the submission to the National Assembly as a bill in the 73rd issue of the 21st year issue of the Hungarian, 1221/2021. It was made possible by a government decision. The main objective of the Convention signed with the Principality of Andorra in the proposed legislation is to avoid double taxation in the field of income taxes and, together with that, to make taxation predictable in bilateral relations. The importance of the Convention is to exclude double taxation of the income of individuals or businesses by determining the scope of the laws of which Contracting State has the right to taxation in respect of, for example, business profits, income from employment, dividends, interest, royalty-type income. In addition, the Convention allows for a reciprocal conciliation procedure for the purpose of resolving possible tax disputes where taxation does not comply with certain provisions of the Convention. The Convention also provides the competent authorities of the Contracting Parties with the possibility of fully exchanging tax information in accordance with current international standards. It complies, in substance, with international practice, the OECD Model Convention on Income and Property Taxation and the principles and rules adopted in its commentary. The conclusion of the Convention will contribute to the development of economic relations between the two States, and we can conclude a treaty with one of the last European states with which our relations in the tax area have not been orderly so far. In order for the international treaty on the agenda to become part of internal law, it is necessary to recognise its binding scope and publish it in law. In view of the fact that the Convention concerns an exclusive legislative object, it should only be published by law. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, Based on what has been said, I ask you to support and accept the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-10-04-132	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Congresswoman Boglárka Elijah, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2022-10-04-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The general goal of Hungarian foreign policy is to find friends and allies for our country at international level. Andorra has demonstrated on several occasions that it is worth working together not only in terms of objectives, but also in terms of achieving them. Firstly, we were in favour of protecting national minorities. Secondly, during the epidemic, he left his gates open to all vaccinated Hungarians, regardless of the ideological classification of vaccinations by the West. Thirdly, we are in a similar position on the issue of the global minimum tax; to mention only a few. The agreement with Andorra will help create and preserve jobs, encourage investment and keep companies' taxes low. At a time of energy and economic crisis due to a misguided Brussels sanctions policy, these are not the last aspects. It is also important to note that in the world's trade competition, bilateral agreements that can widen the spectrum of our relations are not negligible for the Hungarian interest, as the more we stand on our feet, the more stable we are. So we can say that in Andorra we have found not only an ally in favour of the sovereignty of nations but also in support of our economic goals. And let us not forget, of course, that the Czech Republic, which presides over the Council of the European Union, has clearly expressed its wish to place great emphasis on negotiations on an association agreement with Andorra, among other things, in the field of foreign affairs. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.) We are therefore not only on the same path in this area, but also on the basis of the proposal before us. I therefore call on my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-10-04-134	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. I now give the floor to Zoltán Vajda. [[For signal:]] He's not here. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: This is the opposition.]] Then I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpa, please. Because in Parliament, speaking is a condition of presence.
u2022-10-04-135	Mr President, Dear House, Indeed, if they fall out of my way, I'm prepared. I'm always dressed to take part in a professional debate. I would like to say that there is a common minimum here, and we will support this proposal, and I think that perhaps it would not be worth a word if the fellow Member or experts who spoke before me did not mention other factors on which I am obliged to state my position. [[17.00]] The proposal before us on the avoidance of double taxation is a perfectly good approach, and should have been fully dealt with much earlier in Europe as a whole. But better later than never on the ground, even in the difficult hours of the crisis, it is worth dealing with. I'm with you. But as I read the word "tax avoidance" in the title, something started to drive me crazy. You're gonna feel terrible when the government puts the term "tax avoidance" in the title of a bill. Obviously, not only does the government decide what comes under the title of a proposal, but it's his fault for tax evasion. The fact is that we have a proposal before us regarding the Principality of Andorra and against tax evasion. At the same time, this government ignores tax evasion in an institutionalised manner in Hungary, and I have fellow Members who have been blessed with great courage. Lőrinc Nacsa is one of them, we often inseminated each other's thoughts in debates, we respond to each other. I am missing your agility in finding explanations: why is Hungary being plundered? How can a large car manufacturer, if any, make a huge profit in Hungary, take a lot of it out of the country untaxed to the parent company, and end up paying 0.87 percent tax on all its realised revenues, about a billion-dollar scale? The thing is, the company doesn't pay 1 percent of the taxes, and you make up for it with non-refundable funding from taxpayers' money. Well, if it's national governance, I'm not telling you what I'm doing... The fact is, in addition to settling tax evasion, it would be a dog's duty to settle the situation of your true strategic partners, the multi-business community. Not to pull them, not to hurt them, but to involve them in the scope of public burdens. If it were indeed a national government, as it certainly is not in this regard, then it would not tolerate these companies looting Hungary. Because these companies are making a thousand billion-dollar profit, and they're taking most of it out of the country untaxed. With its 0.87 percent tax commitment, the car factory I mentioned humiliates the Hungarian companies that do not receive grants such as Audi, Mercedes and its associates, which do not receive job creation support, which is not always pushed into its hall, and yet these Hungarian small and medium-sized companies guarantee 66-67% of the jobs in Hungary. So I'm asking you not to assist in tax avoidance of multinationals, not to create an extremely favourable climate for this, because while the multi-national tax is supposed to pay 9 percent, the Hungarian employee's wages are about 45 percent withdrawn; obviously the rates are changing here, and there are some lucky years when the situation seems to be more favourable. But even if we were looking at the corporate tax rate, nine percent would be the tax burden of the multi-company, if we weighted it with your non-refundable subsidies and the consequences of the amazing servile service that you do in this country for multi-company companies, we see that we are very far from public burdens. I understand that you have placed Hungary on a very low shelf in the international competition. They also said at management level that they want to compete with the code of work that is sufficiently flexible and with the low wages of Hungarians. They are trying to do this reciproka at home, and their communication here is about leaving 1.7 million employees out of wage statistics, and then they say that the average salary in Hungary is supposed to be half a million, which people who do not believe, because we know very well that micro- and small businesses are missing out on the measurement of the HCSO, but it certainly sounds good. And one more thing...
u2022-10-04-136	Congressman, I'm sorry, I let you talk for five minutes. You didn't talk about the subject in these five minutes. Now, with all due respect, I ask you to try to get to what is on the agenda for the rest of the time, between Hungary and the Principality of Andorra... and I will not go through with the title because I am not stalling. Here you go.
u2022-10-04-137	Mr President, the T/1201. I was talking about the items in the title of the proposal No.1, including double taxation and tax avoidance. But Congresswoman Boglárka Illés mentioned the issue of a minimum global tax, and I would like to say in this connection that it would be much more courageous to involve multi-enterprises in the scope of public burden-sharing. On this proposal, I said at the beginning of my speech that, of course, we support it, but not by abusing the framework of the general debate, just by taking advantage of it, I also tried to respond to the manifestations that were said, which undoubtedly put the subject of the debate within a framework. Thank you for your attention.
u2022-10-04-138	Thank you very much, Congressman, and thank you for returning to the subject. I now address Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go.
u2022-10-04-139	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, To avoid Presidential reproof, I do not now respond to the words of Mr Dániel Z. There could be an interesting debate in this, and I have my own opinion of what he said. It is a pity that we cannot now hear what Congressman Zoltán Vajda has to say, although he has spoken. Let it not be that he has quit the MSZP in the last ten minutes, just like the others; let us hope this is not the case. So the purpose of the bill before us is to bring into law the National Assembly's bilateral agreement between Hungary and the Principality of Andorra on the avoidance of double taxation in the field of income taxes, signed on 8 October 2021, and to the attention of Dániel Z. Karpat on the prevention of tax evasion and tax evasion. So it's not about tax evasion, it's about preventing tax evasion. With regard to the Pyreneus Mini State, from 2017 the World Championship Qualifier may have a rather sad and bad memory for all of us, but this bill is now much more important and much more positive than the World Championship Qualifier match that was lost at the time. This is about bringing continuously developing Hungarian-Andorra relations to a new level. The cooperation between the two countries is without conflict, and it is smooth. The two countries support each other in international organisations, such as the sovereignty of national minorities and the sovereignty of tax rulings. Andorra is a predictable and stable partner of our country. The current legislative publication of the Convention on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion will make a major contribution to financial security, predictability and strengthening mutual investment between the two countries. In terms of the content of the convention, it complies with domestic and international practice, and we hope that it will contribute to the relationship between the two countries, to increasing economic and trade relations, so that the KDNP fraction will support the legislative publication of the Convention. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-04-140	Thank you very much, Congressman. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I ask my fellow Members that someone would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Norbert, Secretary of State, if you would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Norbert Izer: No, thank you.]] He doesn't want to. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Next up is the 2013 XXXVII on certain rules for international administrative cooperation on tax and other public burdens. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/1305. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Izer Norbert, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance, author of the item on the agenda. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-10-04-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, The basic objective of the bill before Parliament is the 2011/16 on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation. Directive 2021/514 amending the Council Directive fulfilment of the obligation to harmonise legislation resulting from the Council Directive, which would be subject to the legislative amendment contained in the bill. The extension of the scope of the Basic Directive to certain transactions via digital platforms, with effect from 1 January 2023, will further increase the international automatic exchange of information between tax authorities, which will contribute to the more effective tax assessment of tax administrations. The regulation also includes a number of additional and clarification amendments to the basic Directive, in particular as regards the joint controls carried out by Member States' tax authorities and certain data protection rules. [[17.10]] On the basis of the legislative amendment implementing the directive, digital platform operators acquire and register information on individuals and businesses selling through the platform and on transactions made through the platform, such as real estate or car rentals, the provision of various services of a personal nature or even the supply of goods, and transmit them to the Hungarian tax authority by electronic means at regular intervals. The Hungarian tax authority sends information on sellers resident in another Member State to the tax authority of another Member State in the framework of an automatic exchange of information, so there is a reciprocity on this issue. The proposed amendment takes over the joint control introduced by the Directive as a new form of procedure, whereby officials from the tax authorities of two or more Member States jointly carry out the tax control, where inspectors may participate in the procedure in another Member State. The new regulation will settle the related internal procedure, the specific time frame for responding to the request for joint control, the rights and obligations of officials involved in the joint audit and the entire process leading to the preparation of the joint audit report. Under the provisions of the Directive, the amendment also includes data protection rules, which also serve to comply with the General Data Protection Regulation of the European Union and to improve the protection of taxpayers' rights. By extending the scope of automatic exchange of information with EU Member States and third countries, the bill provides more extensive tax cooperation tools to identify and manage certain forms of tax avoidance, tax evasion and tax evasion. The amendment thus contributes to tax transparency and thereby to the proper application of international and EU tax cooperation rules, as well as to the fulfilment of our country's legal harmonisation obligations. As a result of the amendment, the Hungarian tax authority may use additional means to detect hidden incomes and to ensure the tax revenues of the budget. Honourable Members, Based on what has been said, I ask you to support and accept the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-10-04-142	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Gyula Siberényi. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-10-04-143	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, XXXVII of 2013 on certain rules for international administrative cooperation on tax and other public burdens on the table of this House. T/1305. The purpose of the bill is to comply with the obligation to harmonise legislation resulting from Council Directive 2021/514 of 22 March 2021 amending Council Directive 2011/16/EU on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation by 31 December 2022, which may be amended by the legislation contained in the bill. This regulation must, of course, be transposed into the Hungarian legal system by 31 December 2022, as has already been shown. In particular, the Directive requires operators of digital platforms to obtain, record and transmit, at regular intervals, by electronic means, to their tax authorities, specific information on individuals and businesses selling through the platform and on their transactions through the platform. The tax authorities of each Member State shall exchange this information automatically in the context of the exchange of information, sending important information on sellers who have come to their knowledge and are resident in another Member State. Dear House, The reporting obligation covers both EU and third country digital platforms. Reporting platform operators are: resident for tax purposes in a Member State; or registered under the legislation of a Member State; or established in a Member State; or resident in a Member State. If the operator does not meet any of the four conditions above, but allows the so-called activities concerned to be carried out by sellers who are obliged to disclose data or who generate revenue by renting property located in a Member State, that platform operator shall also be required to provide information. In addition to the personal service and the sale of goods, the activity concerned therefore means the renting of the property, the parking lot and the means of transport. The most recent amendment to the Administrative Cooperation Directive is therefore also subject to reporting by Amazon, Airbnb, booking.com and other multinational platform operators. For digital platform operators, regardless of the number of countries in which they provide services, it is sufficient to provide data in a single Member State on the income generated by suppliers using the digital platform. Platform operators who do not have a tax resident or establishment in any EU Member State should register and provide data in an EU Member State to ensure fair competition. Dear Parliament, As a novelty of the Directive, automatic exchange of information has included income from employment, income from senior officials, life insurance products, pensions, income from real estate, income from royalties. In the area where intellectual property income is generated, the high mobility of the underlying assets makes it common to transfer profits, which could give rise to tax fraud and tax evasion. Therefore, the Directive also provides for the issue of the tax identification number of the persons concerned in the framework of the automatic exchange of information. With regard to sanctions, it is the duty of the Member States concerned to enforce the reporting obligation to ensure that due diligence procedures and data requirements are implemented. In the event that national provisions adopted pursuant to this Directive are infringed by the platform service provider, Member States should exercise their national competence to ensure that they are effective, proportionate and dissuasive. As digital platforms operate in a wide geographical range across countries, Member States should act in a coordinated manner in cooperation with each other. Ladies and gentlemen, In my speech, I highlighted some of the important elements of the bill that need to be adopted in order to transpose the directive into domestic legislation. In the light of what has been said, I believe that the bill before us contains provisions that must be supported, and I therefore call on my fellow Members to support the adoption of the bill, like the Fidesz fraction. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-10-04-144	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr László Varju. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-10-04-145	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Dear House, As EU legislation follows the model rules issued by the OECD in 2020, which establish frameworks for those selling through a digital platform in the field of a sharing economy, due to our tax harmonisation obligation, this amendment plan will implement the adoption of EU legislation in Hungary, and therefore the Democratic Coalition, in the context of our view that European cooperation is essential, is expected to support this regulation as a starting point. I would also like to emphasise that this is also necessary because digital development offers more and more complex opportunities for tax evasion and tax evasion, which is why, if we act against this, we consider it important. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2022-10-04-146	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-10-04-147	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I'm not gonna surprise you, either. If Fidesz and DK supported something, how could I not support the adoption of this directive? Especially because I consider it useful and important that the Parliament fulfil its obligation to harmonise legislation resulting from a European Council directive which has been adopted and amended once. Our task now is to legislate this directive; here we are setting up a single reporting requirement for digital platform operators for the internal market. I think that it is known to everyone, or that everyone has used one or more of these digital platforms for booking accommodations, domestic and foreign bookings, or in any other case, and we often see that when, for example, an amount is deducted from our card, this is realized in something completely different than the capital of the European Union. [[17.20]] These companies are constantly changing their seat, and therefore I consider a joint EU action to be justified in order to protect the internal market, and therefore the KDNP faction will also support the transposition of the Council Directive into the Hungarian legal order. Thank you.
u2022-10-04-148	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2022-10-04-149	Thank you very much for the floor. Recently, proposals for various regulations and directives coming from the direction of the European Union have increased somewhat. Obviously, the directives have the freedom of action of the legislator to determine the way in which the transposition is carried out, since it is not directly applicable. I welcome the possibility of such a European system. Indeed, many and many companions have been fishing in confusion lately. What I do not understand, and this is a really weird topic, is why in the case of various digital service providers, content providers, the government is not a little braver. So what we see is that there are a lot of companies operating in Hungary, making profits here to a very large extent, and not really taking part in the public burdens mentioned. If you can choose not only the portfolio wisely but also the country of deemed or perhaps real taxation, then certainly Hungary will only be the victim of this process. It can also be seen that, in the case of a large number of services, Booking, Airbnb and Others should also examine the nature of the service themselves, not only that the various financial transactions are carried out in appropriate circumstances. For example, I am very irritated by the fact that this government does not have a visible Airbnb concept, while the fact that this service can be continued alone has taken out more than three thousand properties from the sublet market in Budapest, has caused a strong supply shortage in one market, has greatly contributed to the price rise, so the operation of Airbnb has contributed greatly to the increase in rent prices to 170, 180, 190 thousand forints. It cannot be done as the government has tried to say, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, that we leave this to the municipalities, and then they will solve it, to the needy, bled-out municipalities who are in need of the minimum payments of these companies. So I see that it would be a central national legislative task here, not only to examine the orientation and regularity of various financial transactions, manoeuvres, it is very important, we support this, but it would also be essential to examine these services themselves from the point of view of national economic usefulness. If we were able to hold long debates on the apartments of the Buda Castle on the front of housing, and I think we did the right thing, then we should also do it, for example, in relation to an Airbnb. We see that these different providers are increasingly changing the alleged location for the provision of services in the digital space. Where they pay taxes, and sometimes we don't see them at all. There are also very positive examples of this in the surrounding countries. I encourage the government to address this deficit if it has a sense of lack of revenue at this time of crisis, by involving the companies concerned in public burdens, in addition to the fact that it is basically a directive of the Council that is positive. However, it is noted that, in accordance with the Council Directive, its wording is sufficiently general, high and thin in certain areas. It is the legislative responsibility of the people sitting here to upload this content. So I propose to develop a much more radical package of laws, where we will also examine the activities of the service providers concerned. And where we find that national benefit cannot be shown, we must think, obviously not about banning and banning companies, because the government is very often falling into the other extreme, in the case of Uber, that is what happened at the time, but about putting the whole sharing economy issue under public burdens and common rules. I think that's where the future lies. Thank you for your attention.
u2022-10-04-150	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. The lead speaker of the group of our country is Mr István Apáti. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-10-04-151	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would immediately ask the Secretary of State whether it is a complete coincidence in time or the many demands in Brussels, together with the others, at the same time, to bring this bill directly before the House. I consider both of them to be lifelike, but by reason of my innate curiosity, I would be very interested to know which of the two is closer to the truth, or which of the two is very well answered, Mr. Secretary of State, because of course it may be a coincidence in time, but I am taking advantage of the suspicion that if the Hungarian Parliament had been able to spare it so far to put it on its agenda, then perhaps it would have been possible to do so. The pro-government majority is not always so sensitive to every deadline. I want a clear answer to that. Undoubtedly, it can be supported until it complies with the obligation to harmonise legislation, increases transparency, and can be an excellent antidote against tax evasion at international network level. At the same time, the question should be asked, where appropriate, in order to protect our own entrepreneurs, Hungarian entrepreneurs and Hungarian private individuals, how long does the imaginary knife run in the sense that, let us say, the rules of exemption for such sales, service orders, rentals, exchanges or other transactions are determined where. Obviously, I am referring to the smallest businesses or ordinary people, individuals who do not necessarily make a living, or may count on a small amount of income from this as an additional income. As an undertaking, this is neither their main activity nor any additional activity. So what are tax exemptions or reduced tax rules so that, once everything becomes transparent, those who may try to earn income in a totally legal and fair way do not grow under a heavy tax burden. Because again, as long as they are trying to detect or facilitate serious VAT or other frauds, and thus the Hungarian state budget is getting serious extra income, it is absolutely fine. There is another issue here, in addition to the definition of tax exemption or preferential tax rules or ranges, which was pushed here by Dániel Z. Karpát. I see that Jobbik was very fond of the program of our country's movement on the digital special tax. It's commendable that you're trying these ideas. If he likes it, there is nothing wrong with that, so we are happy with all the support, only Jobbik has moved again or three stages later than Mi Hungary, because we have long placed it on our flag in our period outside Parliament, which says that the large digital multinational tech companies should not only be subject to stricter taxation, but also to special taxation, because we have suffered here almost two calendar years, even two calendar years, in connection with the Covid madness or the Covid dictatorship, and then the Russian-Ukrainian apology broke out, the Russian-American or Russian-West war in the Ukrainian territory, which continued to ring into an even higher inflation, higher than before, and partly resulted in an energy crisis. In such a situation, when the Hungarian state needs every single forint, let us not only think about those forints and now stress, I am talking about small businesses and individuals who have little income or income, let us say, in a tax year through activities on such platforms or platforms. The state, the NAV and the international tax authorities, co-operating authorities, search their pockets for every euro cent and every single forint or penny, but large digital multi-tech companies, which, in terms of forints, make tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of billions of dollars a year and leave them to run and dare not address them. I understand that these companies have a tremendous ability to assert their interests, a great influence. I also understand that if, let's say, the government does not want to open another front in a situation like this, because if these companies sniff out that Hungary wants to subject them to special taxes, they will obviously use their entire relationship system in order to ensure that the Hungarian government never succeeds. But now, when every forint is needed, for example in the Rezségvédelmi Fund, let us say that, in addition to the special taxation of large NER entrepreneurs, it would also be important to pay separate taxes to digital multinational tech companies, if we are talking about international cooperation, independent decisions or solutions in national jurisdiction. For when such a proposal is seen by a man or a simple opposition representative, the sense of justice must break from a Member of Parliament by elemental force, so that if they want to make visible the least or least profit from the smallest transaction, they must also pay hard taxes to those who operate these platforms, these surfaces, for the sake of fair and proportionate public burden. [[17 .30]] So here, in addition to fulfilling the obligations of harmonisation, I would like the government to fulfil the obligations of this kind, including legitimate expectations of the public, and I stress that for the sake of justice. Thank you.
u2022-10-04-152	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I ask my fellow Members that someone would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Norbert, Secretary of State, if you would like to answer the questions that have been raised. [[For signal:]] Yeah. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-10-04-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Yes, I would like to respond briefly to these two points, not to abuse the patience of this House. In the same direction, both Members, Mr Z. Carpathian and Mr Apáti, have proposed that we be braver in relation to the taxation of digital companies. It is important to see that this proposal is a directive transplant, and it is also very important to know that Hungary has always been one of the first to transpose the directives. Thus, the 7th amendment to the directives on tax avoidance is the administrative cooperation package that is now before us, which has always been transposed in time by Hungary. So what the same thing in time causes means is that it needs to be transplanted now, so we are doing it. We really believe it is important that, in the international tax evasion that serves Hungarian interests, we keep it as low as possible and we try to involve international actors in the burden-sharing. To be even more effective or even more powerful, you must obviously see this, but the smallest companies have much less resources in such a way that they cannot apply tax planning or tax avoidance techniques, and it is even more true that digital companies are horribly or extremely mobile. So it is very difficult to tax them locally, because they can move their servers overnight, anything to another Member State. Thus, both the OECD and the European Union have recognised that digital companies can be taxed either in a very specific way or globally. In addition to global taxation, both the OECD and the EU have broken a spear, which is practically the first pillar of the Globe international amendment to try to tax digital, large tech companies worldwide. It is practically the only way to have the same rules on the world stage, but it is clear that this work is moving very slowly. This is what we are waiting for, too, for this first pillar to mature itself and for these rules to be implemented. In fact, very few countries have been able to come forward with individual solutions. What was a good solution was, for example, advertising tax in Hungary, and I suggested that a unique solution could also involve tech companies in taxation. The individuality of the advertising tax was that advertising published in the Hungarian language was the subject of the tax, and in this respect we found a unique tax item that the Court of Justice of the European Union was not able to dispute the correctness of this, so we were able to tax advertising in Hungarian even if it was printed in print media, so on paper and even if it was published in digital media. Thus, virtually the largest digital companies have been involved in taxation and tax paid in Hungary are all the largest platforms and all the largest digital players. And when Mr Apáti talked about how we can focus on the small ones: the philosophy of Hungarian tax policy over the past ten years is to whiteen the economy and to reduce it by tax, a sustainable tax reduction. So we were able to operate very favourable tax regimes for the smallest companies, which could otherwise support their economic activity for years. So I think that this process of turning the sources of whitening into tax cuts is a well-established recipe. I think that once the economic situation is resolved, we want to return to this path. Yeah, I think there's one more point to consider, the tax transplants. So here on the deadline, I think I have responded to the suggestion of the Member that it is being transposed now because we have always transposed these proposals for directives among the first ones, in the proposals for tax avoidance proposed by the OECD and the EU, Hungary has always been the leader, and I think that this is how we intend to continue to do it. So if there is a directive transposition that increases the tax authority's asset system, which reduces the toolbox for international tax avoidance, we will be the first to transpose it in the future. Thank you so much for your attention.
u2022-10-04-154	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the proposal for a decision amending the heading of the central budget in relation to the Integrity Authority will follow until closure. The government referral is H/1314. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I now give the floor to Mr Péter Benő Banai, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2022-10-04-155	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, At the end of September, the Government submitted a proposal for a decision amending the heading of the central budget in relation to integrity. The aim of the proposal is to establish a central budgetary framework for the new integrity in November. In order to create a new chapter in the budget for the so-called constitutional chapter, it is necessary to amend and supplement the heading of this year's and next year's budget law. It is important to note here that the function and organisational structure of the integrity authority has been submitted to Parliament separately by T/1260. It was included in the bill on control of the use of EU budget resources. The motion was accepted today by the Parliament with 150 votes in favour, so it is decided that integrity can be established. Integrity is an autonomous administrative body, completely independent in the performance of its tasks, subject only to laws and to direct EU law, which cannot be directed by another person or body in its function, performing its tasks separately from other bodies and without any influence. The task for the authority can only be imposed by law. In view of the fact that the newly established integrity authority is founded by the Parliament after the adoption of the Central Budget Act as a central budgetary body whose budget revenue and budget expenditure constitute a separate chapter in the central budget, the new chapter may be created by the Parliament on the basis of the current Public Finance Act because of its independence from the government. To sum up, the Parliament is only entitled to supplement the budget heading by means of an individual decision before you. I therefore ask you to support the proposal for a decision and to accept it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause.]]
u2022-10-04-156	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Gyula Siberényi. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-10-04-157	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The proposal for a decision is in line with the legislative package initiating the establishment of integrity from November 2022. The aim of the new authority to be set up shall be to take action in all cases where, in the context of the use of EU funds, the bodies responsible for and competent in the control of the use of EU funds have not taken the necessary steps to prevent, detect and correct fraud, conflicts of interest, corruption and other infringements or irregularities which could adversely affect or affect the implementation of EU financial assistance. Given the need for integrity to function independently of the government, it should receive a separate chapter in the budget. The adoption of the proposal for a decision is precisely for this purpose, since it contains changes to the heading of the central budget. At the same time, the parliamentary decision calls on the Government to provide the necessary resources for the establishment and operation of the institution in parallel with the possibility of operating the institution. Ladies and gentlemen, The Government aims to further strengthen the sound financial management of the EU budget and the protection of the European Union's financial interests by setting up the Authority. In view of all this, I would like to ask my fellow Members to adopt the proposal for a resolution. Thank you. [[17.40]]
u2022-10-04-158	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr László Varju. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-10-04-159	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I think that, in line with our previous announcement and our behaviour, it is also worth making a point that the Group of the Democratic Coalition will not support this proposal. We are not going to support it, because it is a pretense measure that should be replaced by meaningful solutions. But in our view, or in addition to that, I would like to give you some specific details, since, because of the way in which the office is set up, the lack of coordination, the internal contradictions of the bill, the complete non-compliance with clear and impartial procedural rules, the future institution can only be regarded as a powder and a formal solution. Let us consider some more detailed excuses. The rules on conflicts of interest for officials of the Office are unheard of, simply copied from the former law a certain pass on bodies with special status and the status of persons employed by them, in particular the conditions for public officials, even though the authority should be much stricter according to the specific activity. Let's look at some examples, even some of the reasons why we are not going to vote in favour of this bill, since the president of the Fidesz SAO, on his proposal, can appoint the President of the Fidesz Republic, so what is the point of all this, what has changed compared to the previous ones? We will not support this solution. As a matter of fact, I would like to add that I am simply giving an example that it is not incompatible with the membership of the board of the public trust fund, its supervisory board, and with the office of trustee in the public trust fund. Nothing is incompatible with you, the conco between you is divided, distributed, that is all the story is about. According to another point, the Authority shall take appropriate measures to prevent, detect and remedy situations which may be considered as an objective conflict of interest in the exercise of its powers and in the performance of its duties. This provision is also completely unacceptable, and appropriate measures cannot be verified or accountable, so the Secretary of State cannot convince me that this would be eligible for any reason. Further legal nonsense in relation to public procurement may be considered: in the event of an infringement of the contracting authority in connection with the recommendation of the authority, the authority may initiate the procedure of the competent body or court. This is therefore absolutely unfair, because failure to comply with a recommendation cannot constitute an infringement, but if there is an infringement, it must be sanctioned regardless of any recommendation. At the same time, the Board of Directors of the Authority is appointed by the President of the State on the proposal of the President of the SAO on the basis of a recommendation from a so-called suitability committee, as I mentioned earlier. The members of the eligibility committee will, sooner or later, have to be assigned here by a fitness committee to be appointed by the head of an audit body for European grants for five years on the basis of an international open and public tender. That is, the Balázs Dencső, who has been leading the Directorate-General Auditing European Grants since 2010 as a trusted man of Matolcsy, is the Hungarian National Asset Management Ltd. It is therefore almost impossible to exclude political considerations from the mandate of members of the eligibility committee. It is also of concern in this paragraph that the conditions, procedures and criteria for assessing the international open and public tender that will apply will not be defined. I could tell you this for a very long time, but there is one thing I can say to you: your initiative to change the central budget's heading in terms of integrity is unacceptable, and the simplest thing would be to withdraw it, to take seriously what the Democratic Coalition faction has submitted to you, which, by the way, would indicate a little seriousness in the direction that you want to change your theft index in substance. Start by joining the European Public Prosecutor's Office. As long as they do not do so, the zero result and the unsupportable stamp must be attached to this bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2022-10-04-160	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-10-04-161	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I would like, first of all, to give Mr Varju a tip that, when he updates his CV, he will leave out the position of Chairman of the Committee on the Budget, because you clearly do not know what the budget's title is, because he did not talk about it very much, and the bill is about it. It would have been worth talking about. But if you've said a few things, let me respond. He said it was a pretend action, a pretend action package. For DK to advertise itself in a multimillion-dollar Facebook advertisement that the most European party has not yet joined the European Union, as you are now. This is the bill agreed with the European Commission and the related laws. DK's bill, which you have submitted, is not agreed with the European Commission, and the government's bill is off. That is the huge difference between the two legislative proposals, honourable Member. One is a package of legislative proposals tabled as a result of months of constructive dialogue, and the other is your political provocation, so there are two huge differences between the bill we are discussing and the bill you are submitting. We have already discussed the establishment of integrity, we have already held a debate on the bill submitted for agreement with the European Union, and we have even agreed today on the standard control request, just today was the bill with which Parliament turned to the Constitutional Court. The current bill is before us because, under the Public Finance Act, only Parliament can create a new chapter within the budget. Therefore, this is a parliamentary power, which the Ministry of Finance cannot resolve in its own power, so it turned to Parliament that if we set up such a new authority aimed at a clearer, more transparent, simpler and more equal distribution of EU funds, and that is what this authority will supervise, this new chapter will be included in the budget. It is therefore important to note that this current bill is a technical bill, which has already been the essence of integrity, and I think that we will be able to argue enough in the future, honourable Members. In the context of the use of EU funds, integrity will take action in all cases where the Authority considers that the bodies responsible for monitoring the use of EU funds may not have taken the necessary steps. Integrity is an important institution for agreement with the European Commission, so it is also necessary to create a budget chapter for this, and KDNP will therefore support the establishment of the budget chapter, as will the establishment of the Authority. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-04-162	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member of the Parliament. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-10-04-163	Mr President, Dear House, I sincerely respect the efforts of the pro-government people to get the EU's money for Hungary. Let's start by saying this isn't about some kind of charity or aid. It really pisses me off when I hear from liberal circles that we need some kind of Western aid package, and if that doesn't come, then it's just gonna be nothing but nothing. Of course that's not true. However, I blame the government for providing the Hungarian markets and the Hungarian national economy either to the European Union or to multinational companies in general, for not only not asking for the price, but keeping Hungary at a clear resource disadvantage. [[17.50]] To date, this government is indebted to its own promise, to an EU balance sheet, which, where appropriate, can organize what is going out of Hungary against incoming sources, and now even the resources are not coming in, so the situation is very irritating, because Hungary, as a full member of the Union, is contributing to a lot of things, the common acquis. Let us add that by breaking down labour market barriers, many well-trained Hungarian workers enrich Western European national economies, and we do not really see the return of this in the system. And now, even because of the incredible corruption of the Fidesz government, the EU resources we have are still floating in the air. That is why I say that I respect the efforts to recover at least part of what is due to this country, by no means aid, no charity, Hungarian taxpayers and Hungarian citizens have worked for these resources, and that is clearly what we deserve. I am obviously less reassured by the fact that the head of department of the Prime Minister's Office has been appointed to set up a directorate to monitor the legality of EU funds in parallel with what is now in the package. So you can see that in several areas you're trying to make it look like there's more crews here working together to watch over the resources. But it is also worth considering the resources involved. There's 3,000-3500 billion in professional press here. I say that this can end even worse, but even when Hungary began to re-invest its own foreign exchange loan in connection with foreign exchange bond issuance and other issues, the Hungarian government made it a sign, we saw the ominous signs that there could be an amazing lack of funds here. Once again, we are saying that if these EU funds fall out, they will remain loans typically from the eastern background or from the Far East, and if they do not succeed in loans with relatively expensive or unfavorable conditions, then I think that the Hungarian Government will and will return to the IMF. And I find the dangers of this extremely great. Not only do I prevent this government from doing this, but I urge you not to rush into the arms of the IMF's hugging claws, sorry for the slip of the tongue, because the price of resources there is indeed being asked very, very hard. The economic era before 2010, which is not at all well-placed, proves all the negative impressions of this. I see that there is already a kind of education in the press, a kind of conditioning in the direction that, if there is no EU source, you will obviously say that because of the evil of the Union and there are no mega-loans in the Far East, they will contact the IMF, if appropriate. However, I urge you not to do so. It is obvious that, in itself, with regard to the amendment of the heading of the central budget, I would not have, nor can I have any objections, it is entirely logical that you want to demonstrate now, and if this step brings us one step closer to achieving the resources that we need, then I can support it. So I am not at all as negative as the opposition positions we have already heard, but I do miss the rest of the proposal, so I am missing a package. The issue of investments of major importance for the national economy has also rightly been criticised, and I do not see a submission in this respect to settle these issues. I would add that, in the context of priority investments and in the case of special economic zones, it would also be necessary to ensure that the generated tax revenue is actually allocated to the community in or around which the production unit or unit operates. This has not been fully achieved either. And further criticism was received, which dealt with the powers of control of the economic competition authority and the ability to better understand the use of resources. At the same time, I would be calm if three conditions were met, and that concludes my speech as a speaker. On the one hand, I would like the Government to think of joining the European Public Prosecutor's Office in such a way that we can have full insight into the use of EU funds, not only in a transparent manner and not only in the Western European way. But I wouldn't be satisfied with it, but I would only sleep in peace if a national anti-corruption authority stood up, but it is one that can create an integrated system with the European Public Prosecutor's Office. From then on, the market for EU funds and public procurement, i.e. a total transparency could be ensured over virtually the entire public money system. This shouldn't be a total control, it should be a searchability, transparency. Obviously, I will not expect the miracle from the directors and department heads appointed by you, but I will expect an opposition representative to have access to these systems, if necessary, in the exercise of his right of control. Obviously, no one wants to explore business secrets, but they want to see what any citizen with good intentions can see and help their country's national economy to thrive. So these two pillars can build on each other. My third condition is most important: this government must not escape to the IMF, should not accept economic conditions from abroad, should not in any way accept any more dictatorships, because now this period can be tempting for you, since many demands for the Union are now being accepted, implemented, transposed, brought here in the form of a bill; my request is not to the IMF. Thank you for your attention.
u2022-10-04-164	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the group of our country is Mr István Apáti. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-10-04-165	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I have to agree with Daniel Z. Carpathian. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Again?]] that turning to the IMF would be a fatal mistake on the part of the government and a serious loss of image. If I remember correctly, after the elections were won in 2010, then or in the year 2011-12, when he was sent home, the International Monetary Fund was banished, the Prime Minister boasted a long time how great a success this was. Now, ten to eleven years from now, to the point that, in the absence of EU funds, Chinese or other loans, they would turn to those who had been grindned down, it would in all respects be a much more serious moral, political and financial defeat than it is now. I really hope they don't get this far. As you can rest assured, our country's movement is not one of the countercopies. We do not take EU funds by bombing a supply line, as the vast majority of the left-wings do, so that they will be able to spot us well with the Hungarian government. They will not see the government, but the Hungarian people, Hungarian employees, Hungarian businesses. That's what you need to be smart about, and that's what you need to grow up with. Here again, the balliberal side is losing enormous proportions and direction. But it should also be said that this proposal would obviously never have been made if the country had not been so exposed to the loss of EU funds and would not need the EU funding of 3000-3500 billion which would not be suspended now, its disbursement would not be in danger. Here, the Hungarian Government must be highly criticised, as the Prime Minister has repeatedly said a few years ago that the Hungarian economy stands on its own feet. We remember these sentences, don't we, honourable members of the government? We do not need Brussels grants, preferential or normal loans [[Nacsa Lőrinc: That's right!]] The Hungarian economy thankes you very much, you're okay, you're okay. I wish the Prime Minister had been right. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: He's right!]] I wish you were right. Now we see that this is not the case. Of course, you can refer to the Covid crisis that has been typical for the past two years, and you can refer to the consequences of the war. That's partly true, but that's all there is to it would be a huge twist, a lie and a slip. If we only think of inflation, honourable Members, inflation also ran before the outbreak of the war. The first hats were introduced long before the war broke out, so don't act like bad football players who, if the game's not working, all external factors are wrong, from the referee to the air, but not them. So they don't play what they have done very often in the last 12 years, that you are responsible only for success, for failures, defeats, losses, and for faulty decisions, even though the vast majority of the past 12 years have been governed by two thirds. If, in practice, they have come out victorious in every major political struggle, election, then they should also take responsibility. The truth is that what we see here in terms of integrity is a faithful impression of the uncritical takeover of incompetence in Brussels, because I am quite certain that it will not work well for a country, and that corruption will not be reduced by the fact that we also publish the regulations of the regulations, in the majority of the tables and shelves we produce authorities, committees, various regulations, we blow bureaucracy to an amazing size, and we are taking even more amazing costs into our necks. I would very much like to know, Mr Secretary of State, how much this will cost the Hungarian taxpayers. [[18.00]] I wonder how much operational expenditure will be, I will be wondering what personal payments will cost, including public burdens, and I will be very interested to know how much profit this authority will make if we can interpret it as a profit in any way, how much money has been saved by possible corruption acts, what crimes have been discovered, or, let us say, what wealth recovery has been achieved as a result of criminal proceedings. We shouldn't invent hot water, they've invented it before. Police, investigative prosecutors, the prosecutor's organisation itself, in some cases authorities with secret investigative tools, powers, or, let's say, the public procurement authority, would be abundantly sufficient, without the need for completeness, because the existing or long-standing control authorities and structures would be sufficient to prevent corruption or to detect at least part of the corruption that has occurred. Nothing will change, nothing will be better because Brussels is now asking for an organization called integrity, because this alone will not improve detection and will not reduce corruption. Corruption would be reduced, and I have already said this in previous debates, if we could change the system of public procurement rules most effectively, the law on public procurement or the rules on the level of regulation related to the Public Procurement Act, or at least the existing procurement rules much more effectively. I have said several times, I know that it is more difficult to apply it now in an inflation environment, but in a normal economic environment, it would be very effective to set specific cost limits even when planning investments, or to impose criteria, especially for priority public procurement, especially for works, where employment of local workers is the strongest criterion of criticism and only those who are able to win employment of local workers. This will be a key factor in the coming years, as rising, significantly increasing unemployment is expected, and this reduction in unemployment can be an effective tool if the employment of locally resident locally resident workers becomes a key criterion for criticism in the case of works. Much less money would be left in the corruption channels as a reserve that could actually be distributed. In the case of public procurement, it is also true that practically everything is decided in planning and preparation. If there are few reserves left in the system that can be thrown apart between political and non-political, economic or other actors, then practically the snake's fangs have been removed. But if they allow budget over-planning, allow investment to be overpriced, they do not initially include in public procurement procedures defence-related, anti-corruption, defence-like rules that a medium-skilled professional or official public procurement consultant could carry out, then you can set up authorities every month, set up departments, set up any system of organizations with a budget of billions or tens of billions, achieve nothing, achieve nothing. And I am not saying that the public procurement rules are omnipotent, but I claim that thousands of billions of forints have been spent annually in Hungary since about 2004, on public procurement channels since our accession to the EU. If this system of rules and related law were not to be complicated with newer and more organizational systems, authorities and rules, but would be simplified, and a common sense of common sense could be used to design the budget related to public procurement procedures, a common standard could be built up, much more than it would be achieved by incorporating such completely useless authorities, which are typically based on Brussels thought worlds, which can be said to have fulfilled the obligations imposed on them by the Hungarian government, and we will now have access to or access to thousands of billions of forints of resources, but believe me, this may be an easy way to reassure the professional or political conscience, but I will explain to you that our expenses will only increase our problems. Nothing in itself will be better and nothing will change. Thank you very much. [[István Szabadi applauds.]]
u2022-10-04-166	Thank you very much, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I ask my fellow Members that someone would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. For a two-minute speech, Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa applied. Here you go.
u2022-10-04-167	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. This has been said so many times today and in recent weeks from opposition representatives, how the inflation figures and the evolution of energy prices were already before the war, to make this clear once and for all, because you are constantly accusing us of this. So what happened was that energy prices started to rise in the autumn of 2021, which led to inflation. Why did this happen? Because Brussels wanted to introduce it, and the climate tax was on the agenda that anyone who has a house, who has a car, who has an apartment, and who uses it, should pay extra taxes. The climate tax was priced by the market, so that the gas price of the 25 euro megawattor at that time went up to 100 euros and sometimes 150 euros above the gas price. It was nicely corrected back to about 100 at the beginning of the war. After the war began, there was a great wavering, because the market was scared that one of the greatest energy powers was involved in a war, and even attacked Ukraine about Russia, so there was an ascension, but then it went back. And do you know, Congressman, when did the high gas price start, and when did the real increase start, which has driven the price of gas to almost 300 euros and four times the price of electricity? The sixth penalty package. That is why we are talking about sanctions. And don't let us know that we defended Hungarian consumers three months before the war, because we put in a gas stop and we put in a food price stop and we put in a interest-rate stop, because then inflation started up because of the faulty Brussels decisions, and energy prices went up. They're related to each other. The story didn't end. That is why we are asking you and the other opposition parties to help us fight sanctions, specifically in the fight against energy sanctions, because the development of stock exchange prices at the electricity price and at the gas price clearly shows that it has started to skyrocket since the sanctions packages. That is the problem, honourable Member.
u2022-10-04-168	Thank you very much, Congressman. István Apáti also asked for the floor for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2022-10-04-169	Thank you very much. Dear Congressman Nacha, There is truth about the evolution of energy prices, and I am willing to acknowledge that, but the rise in food prices is also linked to the very bad treatment of the Covid madness, the Covid crisis, the Covid dictatorship, if you will, and this Covid crisis, often with measures that conflict with each other on a monthly or weekly basis. Thus, the rise in food prices has been constant since 2020 and there has not been a climate tax in the area, nor have we heard such phrases in the turn, when food prices have already flown and become increasingly unmanageable; plus you have applied an election budget by 2022. Before you start attacking below the belt, I would like to say that we are pleased that there is more money left than the Hungarian people, that we are happy with the various welfare measures, that perhaps the timing or the extent of these measures was a little excessive, that it might have been possible to define them over several years, smarter and more moderately, and that, in the end, it would have been better for the tax-paying citizens. But you have entered into force an election budget, because what is very difficult or never to find out is how much money has been spent on either mobilization or certain less legitimate activities in connection with the elections, and these... [[Nacsa Lawrence: Zero.]] Well, then you're either naive, Congressman, or you're either good at denying or you're good at bluffing. This parliamentary election cost the Hungarian voters enormously. Obviously, you were aware of the need for serious austerity measures, which, of course, you kept secret from the Hungarian electorate, because you probably wouldn't have achieved nearly such a good result. This has also contributed to the fact that the country is in such a situation. I'm telling you again, was there or is there any truth to what you've just listed here? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] But don't act like you're always responsible for success. Take responsibility for the difficulties and the cause of them! Thank you. [[István Szabadi applauds.]]
u2022-10-04-170	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Gyula Szeberényi also applied for a two-minute speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-10-04-171	Thank you. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to comment on the proposal on the agenda in a unique way, because the analysis of the elections has already been discussed here, and Mr President has listened to these comments with great calmness and patience. I think that the most important argument in favour of the proposal before us is that it was not just the two of us, the lead speaker of the KDNP and I, but none of the opposition representatives spoke against it and could not make any objections. [[18.10]] Obviously, they have used the opportunity to raise their favourite themes and say them here, but I would like us to return to this agenda, so I will continue to ask for your support, because this is about amending the heading of the central budget. I ask that we vote in favour, like all the political groups, Fidesz and KDNP. Thank you.
u2022-10-04-172	Thank you very much, Congressman. For the sake of accuracy, and for the sake of fairness, I note that you will read your speech to Congressman László Varju, which does not match what you just said. Thank you very much. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Péter Benő Banai, Minister of State, as rapporteur, if you would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2022-10-04-173	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I think that on the proposal before you, one of the key points was said by Mr Lőrinc Nacsa when he said that it was a technical proposal. So what we are discussing here is indeed a draft parliamentary resolution that creates the possibility for integrity to have an independent budget. If the Parliament decides to establish integrity, then this authority, as a body independent of the government, must have a separate chapter in the annual budget. Here I could finish what I have to say, I promise that I will not abuse the patience of the Honourable Parliament for a long time, but allow me to respond in three points to what has been said in the debate. The first is that integrity is needed, there is no need for what the purpose is. I am expressing my personal opinion, and I agree with the opinions that it would be possible to remove and reduce corruption without this authority. Let me quote the European Commission's statements. There is a document called the Single Market Scoreboard, which was published by the European Commission on 20 December 2021, which assesses the state of public procurement and where irregularities generally relate to public procurement. The Commission has classified the Member States in three categories. Hungary has entered the average category in the field of public procurement, with countries such as Germany and Benelux in the middle category. There are nine countries where the situation is unsatisfactory, such as neighbouring Austria. There were only five countries that came into the right category. So the European Commission itself sees, in the field of public procurement, that I repeat, we are together with countries such as Germany and the Benelux countries. Within public procurement, Hungarian data on non-bidden procurement is extremely low, and when it comes to corruption and theft from the left-wing benches, in addition to recalling, say, the case of metro four, let me say factually that the proportion of negotiated procedures without notice was still 15 percent in 2010, this fell to 6 percent in 2020. Why, then, is the authority needed? I believe that there is a complete national consensus that there must also be zero tolerance to corruption. If the European Commission considers it appropriate to achieve zero tolerance by setting up a new organisation, and this is a prerequisite for obtaining the EU framework for Hungary which is otherwise due and has already been adopted by the Council and Parliament once, it may be appropriate to set up this authority. MEP László Varju criticized the EUTAF and its leader regarding the establishment of the authority. Let me say, in fact, that the Directorate-General for Auditing European Union Grants is acting on behalf of the European Commission on behalf of the European Commission, contributing to the establishment of integrity independent of the government. This organisation, this organisation called EUTAF, I repeat, is acting on behalf of the European Commission. The European Commission has proposed that the EUTAF help set up the organisation. EUTAF is completely independent of MNB Zrt., so it does not operate in a corporate form, in the form of a budgetary organ. His head, Balázs Dencső, has no political attachment, no party member, and if the Member looks at his CV, he can see that he has been working in the administration for several decades, regardless of governments. I trust that this will also confirm that an organisation will be established under the name of integrityability, which will be able to meet all kinds of tests and independence. How much will this organization cost? Congressman Abbot asked the question. As it will function as a budgetary body, it will be included in the monthly budget reports each month after it has been set up, how much this organisation costs. The plan is to create an organization of about 50 people. You have to get up from the end of the second half of November, obviously not immediately with 50 people. Employees receive their salaries according to the rules applicable to employees of organisations with special status, i.e. as other constitutional organizations independent of the government, and the law negotiated before Parliament is about the fact that the President of the Authority will receive 80% of the salary of the President of the Hungarian National Bank. So there will be an accurate account of how much this organization costs. However, we are talking about hundreds of millions in scale here, and I think it is a necessary investment to repeat that we will receive all the resources we are entitled to. How is the balance sheet, the EU balance sheet? This was asked by Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian as a question. EU support for all period 2021-27, excluding the amount of RRF credit, agricultural support, all kinds of aid, together, amounts to EUR 40 billion. That this is scheduled to be used: in next year's budget, we have calculated that a total transfer of approximately HUF 2500-2600 billion can be made to Hungary. This means all the support. On the other hand, Hungarian deposit can amount to HUF 600 billion in magnitude. So if you look at the salon narrowly, it's positive. I agree it's not a gift. This is not a donation, Hungary is entitled to use these grants. Now, if we interpret in an extended way what the price of EU aid is, what the balance sheet is, then there is no doubt that the so-called GDP/GNI indicator has a substantial difference, i.e. a number of companies based in Western Europe, which have companies in Hungary, realises profits, and the transfer of profits is, by definition, a source produced in Hungary but used abroad. I think the point is to reduce this difference, to increase the added value of Hungary, and not only to invest in Hungary, but to have strong Hungarian companies that can also appear abroad. At the same time, I would warn against combining this kind of balance sheet with EU funds, as it is a historical gift, with privatisation after 1990, with many bona fide initiatives, with privatisation, unfortunately, it is a historical fact that our economic structure is such that the fate of foreign-owned companies is extremely strong. I just classified it, maybe it's wrong. I believe that, regardless of EU membership, this economic structure is difficult to change, so I repeat that I do not consider it appropriate to count the balance of EU aid with the GDP/GNI balance. I agree with the statement that the core countries of the European Union have benefited from the fact that Hungary is a member of the European Union, because thanks to the principle of four freedoms, many investments have been made, or thanks to the principles of four freedoms, Hungarians have been free to work in Western Europe. I think the key question is what direction we are going. Economic policy goes in the direction that the growth of the Hungarian economy exceeds the EU average. This has been achieved every year since 2013. In recent years, the Hungarian real wage increase has exceeded the EU average, so there is a substantial economic and income catch-up, and I hope that more and more strong Hungarian companies will invest and transfer incomes abroad, which will strengthen the Hungarian population, the Hungarian income owners. [[18.20]] That's my closing thought. Many here have already made proposals and recommendations on the direction of economic policy in relation to sovereignty. I repeat, the proposal before you is a technical follow-up to the establishment of integrity. Integrity is needed so that we can actually use the EU funds for Hungary. Our aim is to use these resources to expand the Hungarian economy in a pure and non-corruption manner, to increase incomes, and this is necessary to maintain the sovereign economic policy that we have been pursuing since 2010 in the next period. Yeah, times are tough. Who is responsible for these difficult times, whether the economic policy of the last 12 years is responsible or the external situation, to answer that, please look at Eurostat data on the performance of the Hungarian economy, and please see that the yield of ten-year-old sovereign debt in the United States is three times higher than the level of one year ago, see that most people in Germany are forecasting an economic downturn next year, see that inflation in the Baltic countries has been above 20 percent in recent months. If you look at this international outlook, then I think you can all find an answer to the fundamental reason why, in this difficult situation, we are all working to ensure that the Hungarian economy can move on under such conditions. Thank you very much. [[Lőrinc Nacsa and Dr. Gyula Tamás Szeberényi applaud.]]
u2022-10-04-174	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. First, I give the floor to Member László Varju of the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-10-04-175	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, On October 4th, we celebrate the World Animal Day, the principle of which is that animals make our lives happier, enriching our daily lives as fellow helpers and friends. We can also have a historical look back on this, as everything that is happening came up for the first time within the framework of the Environmental Conference held in 1931, so that the idea of World Animal Day would appear. October 4th became the chosen day because it was the day of the death of St. Francis of Assisi, and it was also a day of remembrance. This day is a tribute to the patron saint of animals, St. Francis of Assisi, who is already the XIII. At the beginning of the century, he declared that we must love everything that surrounds us, whether it is alive or lifeless. The principle of World Animal Day is that animals make our lives happier than I mentioned. Humanity's activity has inevitably changed the Earth and the biosphere, significantly altered its environment, and unfortunately caused the extinction of many species. World Animal Day is a good opportunity to focus on reducing the damage that has been caused so far, and if the environmental changes caused by man have already crossed critical boundaries from an ecological point of view, it is important to be informed about and to do so. A positive attitude to the environment is developed in environmental education, in addition to obtaining adequate knowledge. I spoke yesterday about a good example of this, such as the Rex Dog Home, which I spoke about yesterday in connection with the 30-year-old birthday and by the way. In 30 years, 25,000 animals were rescued, neutered, or adopted by their helpful and sacrificial work. From the outset, special attention has been paid to shaping the animal protection approach. Today, however, we would like to show the other side of the coin here on this day, when, in vain, the sacrifice work, for some reason in the eyes of the state, turns to the opposite of what I was talking about earlier. For some reason, it becomes an enemy to do this sacrificial work. So on the other side of the coin, there is another organization that I would like to point out that if you like, I am speaking on behalf of 8700 concerned taxpayers. 8700 taxpayers who have offered 1 percent of their personal income tax to an animal rescue foundation that saves, cures, care, placements and in many cases manages dogs that seem unlikely to be saved, whose last chance in their lives is this activity. We're talking about animals with spinal cord damage, paralysis, accidents. Their activities are reported daily by newscasts, videos are made, followers can make sure that their donations are used for what. Not only do they save animals, but they spend a lot of money on their treatment, care, food, and housing that people have offered. Currently there are 150 orphans, including more than 40 paralyzed dogs. They are under constant control by official bodies. The last so-called follow-up NAV study at the Foundation was in November 2020, when everything was found to be okay, and it was found that the donations received were used for purpose. In addition to my festive comment, I am not going to address the specific organisation here, but I am going to ask the Minister with a written question, because this year they did not receive the 1% support. I must indeed draw your attention to the possibility of giving the competent minister this speech and the letter a meaningful answer on what grounds and on what grounds and without prior information, notification or investigation, the 1% support of 8700 citizens will be withheld. I will expect an answer to that, and I expect an answer from the competent minister. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2022-10-04-176	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, It is also the rapporteur from the DK Group, Mrs Andrea Hegedüs. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2022-10-04-177	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, The city of Miskolc must carry a huge bag from 2019, loaded with stone, and the Fidesz government will make it even harder. Under increasing burdens, people will crack, and they will drag this sack of Miskolc on the ground, not on their backs. One stone is inflation, food price increases, energy price increases, and overhead increases. After that, the rocks arrive next to the rezhihandanda band. Your series of missteps are causing the air to run out around you. It may be the government's problem, but it's our burden. I didn't bring the stoned, rocky metaphor today, because I'm talking about the stones of the watch tower of the Castle of Diósgyőr. At the foot of the Beech, in a beautiful environment, the XII. From the century onwards, a fortification, the Gothic castle rises from the days after the Tartars. He lived in the time of King Louis the Great, and then was a gift from the wives of the royal Highnesses. There is nostalgia and emotional charge attached to this structure. Miskolc expects the public's concerns around the castle to vanish into thin air. People in the city are aware of the need to live with innovations and learn to accept them, but many do not like the modernized view of the old castle. The most recent pejorative sentence that revolves in the public mouth is:, Castle stood, now Disneyland. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, One problem is the sight, the other is the financing, the third is the deadline, and the fourth is the static stability of the fourth tower. In recent years, for 13.5 billion forints, it has been transformed more and more strongly in front of our eyes within the framework of the modern city programme. I wonder if it's for the better. Or does the Fidesz make a torso out of it? While the view of the first phase of the renovation was favorable, there are many questions and exclamation marks at the reception of the second phase. You have not only a limp in your government, but a dissipation of taste. Maintain the historical Anjou-era unit. The deadline for the project is the end of 2022, which is very, very much here, but gravel is in the machine. One of the towers had static errors, and the work stopped. To continue, it would take 2 billion forints. The total amount has so far been 13.5 billion, plus the 2 billion cost has increased to 13.5 billion. Platonic question: How much more important could this money have been spent? If they had planned carefully, professionally, it would have been possible, for example, for energy rationalization, paneling, road, sidewalk, sewerage, public transport financing. [[18.30]] Professionalism and socialisation should have complicated the construction process along these lines. Our King Louis the Great, the Balassa family and the owners of the former wedding gift, Queens Katalin, Anna, Mary and Beatrix, do not spin in their graves, so as to reassure the Miskolcs who respect our historic memorial places that the extra funding is on the way to the wedding dress of the queens and will be available by deadline. The castle is not party property, and it cannot be anyone's personal property. Let them know that the fate of our national values has the right to interfere with those for whom it is being rebuilt. Therefore, the Miskolcs expect a guarantee: the unstable tower will be stable, worth the past of the sight, 2 billion HUF will arrive and will be handed over by deadline. Miskolc awaits information from the Fidesz government commissioner of the castle, Dr. János Kiss, who is also a Member of the Parliament of the district. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Laszlo Varju applauds.]]
u2022-10-04-178	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, From the Jobbik Group, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, the notary of the Parliament, is coming. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-10-04-179	Mr President, Dear House, The book festival, which for publishers and book readers, is one of the most important meetings each year, ended in the last few days. I would like to say that in an emerging crisis, in the beginning and middle of a crisis period, culture and book reading have significantly less resources and attention than in peace periods, and it is also very important to point out that, in many cases, although publishers can still work for their survival, they are forced to charge their publications, due to the price of materials, paper prices and energy prices, where appropriate, so that an average book can cost up to HUF 6-7 thousand in an average bookstore. Obviously, this is priceless for non-official, but also for Hungarian citizens who live on a real average salary. I would note here that among the book buyers, those teachers whose devalued salary has been increasingly difficult to obtain quality spiritual food have appeared highly over-represented in comparison to their social numbers. I held a press conference at the entrance of the book festival to send a message to authors, publishers and readers that there are people who listen to them, and that only the tax collected by the government this year in excess of last year would be eligible for the whole sector of around 800-900 billion, 1 percent. Book publishers would be supported primarily by a guaranteed purchasing system, where a publication passed through a professional filter, if it meets all the criteria, would be purchased in a certain number of copies, so that the publisher could work from a zero-sum situation to promote its profits, the habit of reading and the publications themselves. And the purchased copies would be available free of charge to all librarians with a library ticket, obviously taking into account the quantitative limits. At the same time, we see that this indirectly supports the book-reading audience, because if publishers can breathe a little, it may be easier to compensate for the dispersal of raw materials, overhead and paper prices. In the long term, I would say that we would not dream a great deal with it, but a Hungarian paper factory and the Hungarian hinterland are desperately lacking in order for these publishers to really operate in an independent way. It is not uncommon that my favourite newspapers and books have been pushed out in the Highlands and Southlands in recent years, but it is quite certain that if the pressure is placed further away, the positive economic effects will not occur in Hungary, and the positive externalities that are actually here will not appear. I would also like to note that, although I am somewhat alien to the world of e-book and e-reading, we need to move forward with age, and we have also developed a support programme that supports the purchase of e-book readers, especially those in educational institutions, and on the other hand we consider it very important to make these tools more accessible. I would like to say that in a world without books, perhaps none of us want to live, regardless of politics and party standing, that quality spiritual food must be affordable, accessible. According to our calculations, in the long term, the damage caused by the lack of reading and the weakening of the resulting competences is of the magnitude of ten billion forints, and the few billion forints that would now be able to save the entire industry and save its activities for the future would be a great help. I would like to add that we have also developed a package for publishing companies to compensate for the costs incurred by their employees as a result of tax restrictions. In this industry, particularly many of us have worked on jobs, and the number of our retired compatriots or fellow countrymen working in third jobs was very high. We have looked at how much worse these workers and publishers are, and we would like to compensate the total amount from the state hat for the publishers and, of course, indirectly, for the workers. In this way, I would like to make sure that the reader, who enters a bookstore, does not meet books prices of HUF 6-7 thousand, but those closer to reality, with affordable ones, and, indirectly, we want to support the whole audience in providing quality spiritual food, because, as I said, none of us might want to live in a world without books. Thank you for your attention.
u2022-10-04-180	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Member Dócs of the Group of our country has applied for a speech after the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-10-04-181	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mostly the people of Nográd are the losers of the crisis. I'm sure you're all aware that Nógrád County is our last county, most of the time at the end of the line, except for the race of the EU's most backward walks, in which we managed to win two podiums: the Salgótarján and the Bátonyterenye districts. The most depopulated county is ours, which has fewer people, such as the city of Debrecen. Active age people are trying to get along either because of the proximity of the capital city or abroad, but even the generation that is growing up is planning its future elsewhere, since there is no vision for young people born here. Although we can be a touristic great power, we don't have a meter of motorways, our existing infrastructure networks are the worst and the most backwards in the country, we don't have a higher education institution, so we don't have any intellectuals, we don't have a bath, we don't have a normal club, but we don't even have a major domestic investment. Although we should normally come here rather than go to people, because we are a county blessed with good gifts, but the political leadership of the last three decades couldn't do anything about it, and instead of making positive records, they are still stalling with negative overthrows and taking away the possibility of catching up more and more. Instead of taking advantage of our excellent opportunities, they degrade our county to a component assembly plant, where now you can't work for nothing. We are almost used to Hungary being among the most backward counties of Nógrád county, but that does not mean that we do not have to do everything to create a sustainable, mature and future-oriented county for the next generation; so we will not, so we will definitely slip off the edge of the gap. The county has lost its main pull, mining, livestock production, fruit production, industry built on it, and its industry, which, in recent decades, should not have been reduced, but developed. Thus, it is not difficult to figure out why young people prefer to move to more developed counties or abroad. [[18.40]] Unfortunately, in this process, an image film made in the days will not be able to help, although it is nice to see what beautiful landscapes and how much value we have in our narrower country, but this only results in a more painful departure from the county. Maybe that's why it's so shocking to see our territory depopulated, losing their young. While our land is the cheapest and the property prices are far below the other regions, while our average income is the lowest, the most expensive is the price of natural gas offered by Tigas, but in many cases the price of other utilities and services is similar. The people of Nógrád are the biggest losers of the crisis that is now becoming more and more common today, and they are afraid that they will be the least able to fight to survive. It is feared that the crisis and the life that is becoming more expensive every day will be another blow to our county's inhabitants, which may lead to the fact that emigration will take even greater proportions, since they will no longer be able to sustain themselves, their families or their properties, but instead, leaving everything behind, they will look for a better place to live, unfortunately, in a foreign country. The county of Nógrád is beneath the entire country, but it is not the fault of the inhabitants, but the leaders who abandoned this region. Our Hungary Movement and I personally intend to have a different future for both the county of Nógrád and Hungary, for our country, and therefore we will do everything we can. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-10-04-182	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for all your daily work, thank you for keeping the record, thank you for the work of the staff of the Parliamentary Office. Parliament will resume its meeting at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. I'm closing this meeting. Good night, everyone.
