u2022-11-09-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good morning, fellow Members. I warmly welcome all of you and welcome all of you who are monitoring our work today. The 12th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and Dániel Z. Carpathian notaries will be here to help me. Dear House, In 2009, the National Assembly recognised the Hungarian sign language as an independent natural language, then two years later, in 2011, with the adoption of the new Fundamental Law, its protection and recognition rose to the highest level. In 2017, Parliament unanimously declared 9 November to be the day of Hungarian sign language, recognising that Hungarian sign language is as valuable as any spoken language in the world. Our sign language is not only a living, changing and developing language, but also has the same national character as our mother tongue. CXXV of 2009 on Hungarian sign language and the use of Hungarian sign language. As a result of last year's amendment to the Act, great progress has been made in the access of deaf and hearing students to education and in the field of employment through the provision and extension of the available sign language interpreter service. In addition, it has been realized that we are the first in Europe to take a state-recognized language exam in Hungarian sign language. Ladies and gentlemen, There are currently over 60,000 people in our country with hearing disabilities and over 10,000 deaf people, but the use and use of sign language goes well beyond this community, the amount of people who require this service. It is in the common responsibility and interest of all of us that our fellow citizens have an equal chance of learning in the education system, an equal chance to appear in the labour market, and, if necessary, to provide sign language interpretation services in all areas of public administration and justice. The national network of signal language interpreters financed by the State since 2002 also serves all these purposes. Thanks to organisations and creative communities active in the field of culture, more and more cultural events are becoming available and enjoyable for hearing-damaged and deaf people, thus expressing to all of us what our legislation states that Hungarian sign language is indeed part of Hungarian culture. Today gives us the opportunity to emphasise the importance of Hungarian sign language and to pay tribute to the value-creating and culture-forming work of the third largest linguistic minority in Hungary. Let us take the example of a united community of deaf and hard - hearing, caring for one another, and helping one another. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]] We now have speeches before the agenda. Member Antal Csárdi has applied for a speech from the LMP Group before the agenda. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-11-09-1	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Our biggest problem today in Hungary is that the two or perhaps the two most important supporting legs of society appear to be ruined, isn't it, the education system and the social system, and I know that there is a difference of opinion between pro-government and opposition representatives, but let me present in a few sentences the reasons why I came to this conclusion! We know exactly what a wave of protest is about educators' wage increases, the reform of NAT and the guarantee of equal rights in relation to educators, and I think it is clear that these demands are real and completely independent of party policy. This independence, I think, is proven by nothing more than yesterday's church schools organizing an awareness-raising educator's graduation, where hundreds of teachers from 34 church schools demanded the immediate wage arrangement of teachers, the reform of NAT and the free textbook selection. I think that it should be said clearly that, as said yesterday at this educator's graduation, the Hungarian country can be made great not primarily by the sword, but by culture, a quote from Kuno Klebelsberg. I think that this is the case in this House because you have made twice a wage increase in the Armed Forces this year, and there should be no misunderstanding. I think that's okay, I just think that if there was money for this, then there should be, and I know exactly how there is enough in the budget to settle the teachers' wages. I think the numbers speak for themselves. Since 2016, teachers' wages have lost 40 percent of their value, and I am convinced that the appreciation of teachers should not only take place at the level of words, but also at the level of their salaries. But I think that we also need to say a few words about the social system, at the same time, because these two things are ultimately linked, where, when you amend the social law, you said that the individual is primarily responsible for his social situation, and then, secondly, the relatives are responsible, thirdly civil society organisations, then the municipalities, and only the last in line for the state's involvement. What's wrong with that? Allow me to give you a few examples of this. A disability association in Somogy County, which supplies 1,600 people with disabilities, is in the position that their bills have increased six times, and the result is that today the provision of these 1,600 people has been compromised because you no longer wish to provide support to a social security institution for the payment of the bills. Do we remember the previous list of people to whom this civil society organization should turn? I think that it is clear that there is nothing here that you can turn to the government for life-like reasons, and the government, and I think that is the most outrageous of all, is not even willing to answer their requests. But I also spoke yesterday at IX. in the district of the XIII. in the district or in the zone VIII local government tenements in the district, where people in need live, whose rent rises from 10 to 80,000 forints. We know very well that it can be said that in most cases the socially dependents are in need, but at least it is very rare when there is a millionaire uncle behind a needy man. Once again, the question arises that you can't turn to relatives, you can't turn to the municipality whose job it is to help a family in a bad situation, apart from its own fault? Again, I'm saying that's the state's job. I'm asking you very much. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] to fulfill their task and help those socially deprived who need it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the lines of DK, Dialogue and LMP.]] [[9.10]]
u2022-11-09-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Rétvári, Deputy Minister, State Secretary, replied to his speech before the agenda. Here you go.
u2022-11-09-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You stand up in Parliament and tell us what everyone agrees with, of course, that Hungarian teachers must earn more. Everyone agrees with that. He agrees with right-wing and left-wing Member of Parliament, agrees with teacher and not educator. Pretty much everyone agrees that there should be an increase in wages. Obviously, politicians on the government side and on the opposition side have different responsibilities to promote this. You would have had the opportunity to do so in the last few weeks here in Parliament. Yes, you are surprised, Mr President, but you would have had the opportunity, because we have discussed the 17 points, most of those that are necessary for a joint agreement with the European Union, which opens up the resources that will enable us to start a teacher's wage increase from Hungarian budgetary and European Union sources, which has not been the same since the change of regime. The reason why we have the opportunity to raise wages higher than before is because we put one half in the budget and the other half in EU funds, so we can talk about a multi-annual series of wages of HUF 1200 billion. But in order for this to be on a larger scale, not only what we have planned for the budget next year, there is a surplus of 86 billion in the budget, we need this agreement for the benefit of Hungarian teachers, and also for the benefit of the country. But when we sat here on the 4th of October and the next weeks, or even yesterday, and we voted in line on these proposals, first of all about their accelerated negotiations, we could not count on the opposition. Then we voted on the bill itself, and we couldn't count on the left. They didn't vote. He stands up and says he needs more raises. Then you will sit down and press the "no" button, either you will not vote, or you will not come into the room, or you will press the "I'm staying" button, but you will not by chance press the "Yes" button when by one vote you can help to have more resources, not only the domestic source, but also the EU resource for the teacher's wage increase, honourable Member. Why don't you do it? You do not have a MEP, but the one who has a left-wing party is constantly blocking it. On the debate day, Mr. Secretary of State Latorcai took a number of steps here. It was six times that the representatives of the Hungarian left could vote that Hungary had access to these funds or not, set new and new unfair conditions for Hungary or not, and on all six occasions, the Hungarian left failed in terms of representation of national interest and representation of teachers, because it did not vote once to help Hungarian teachers increase their wages. I will continue to ask you, as I did on debate day, not to vote for anything in Budapest or in Brussels, which will keep us from drawing the funds needed to raise the teacher's wages, but to vote for everything that will help to increase the rate of teacher's wages as soon as possible. It is not difficult, Congressman, but you have not been able to jump for at least a year now, but you may have been able to do this for two years, because you always manage to press the wrong button. If you could choose to press the teacher's wage increase button to make more money available or to make this impossible, you would always press the impossible button. I began by saying that there is obviously a different responsibility for the government and the opposition, regardless of the opposition's responsibility. If you have to stand up and ask yourself that you voted in favour of those proposals, or if your parties voted in favour of those proposals that contributed to this HUF 1200 billion in Brussels, then you should be ashamed to say that we did not vote, because we always vote against the government. Because what's important to us is that we vote against the government, not that we vote for teachers. This could be a national matter. Well, how nice it would be to join forces in this. What hasn't been put together yet? For example, the child care fee has failed to work together, Congressman; you have also mentioned social issues. We were here in December 2018, almost exactly four years ago, without a month, and did you manage to press the "yes" button for the child care fee? We voted on people, families where a child who is not only 5 and 15 years old, but also 25, 35 or 45 years old, requires full-day care and care. And you've been able to vote for them to receive a HUF 200,000 allowance? You have failed to vote, honourable Member. We are constantly negotiating with teachers' representatives. The 14th strike trial took place yesterday, the fifth one since the elections. We aim to achieve 80 percent of the average wage for teachers, 90 percent for those working with disadvantaged young people, with the joint use of EU and domestic funds, so that next year there will be not a 10 percent wage increase, but a 21 percent wage increase, so that in 2024 there will be a 25 percent wage increase and not a 10 percent wage increase, and in 2025 there will be an additional 29-30 percent wage increase, thus reaching the average salary of HUF 777,000 by 2025. It would be nice if you would support this with your vote once in a while. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-09-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Madam Dóra Dúró, vice-president of the Parliament, from the group of our countries, has applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Madam Vice President. You have the floor.
u2022-11-09-5	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, He couldn't teach for two months, and so he didn't get paid for a teacher who didn't get vaccinated for medical reasons. Like many of his associates, he turned to EMMI for discharge and attached the medical certificate to all of this. We're talking about a diabetic educator over the age of 60. The EMMI rejected its request without justification and then turned to the court concerned. Of course, the court annulled the decision of the EMMI and ordered the authority to proceed with a new procedure. At a time like this, the court can't help but decide. Now, after the election, the Ministry of Interior has had access to education, so the Ministry of Interior has also taken a negative decision, but once again it has failed legally, because the person concerned has again turned to court, and within a year the court has stated in two cases that the State is unable to take a legally negative decision. This second decision was also outrageous because there was formal justification here, but they practically copied an operational tribal resolution, which, by the way, contains data or assumptions concerning the age group aged 18-59, and the Ministry of the Interior issued one of these to a teacher who is over 60 years of age, so it does not belong to the age group mentioned in the explanatory statement of the Ministry of Interior. Thanks to this educator for his perseverance and thanks to András Schiffer for his legal representation. I believe that this issue is a drop in the sea in several respects. On the one hand, when education is in such a situation in Hungary, you are able to apply such treatment to a teacher to reject his application for exemption without justification. We're talking about a teacher over 60 who's been working through school. The fact that, twice in a year, the court says to the state that it can't make a normal, legal decision is also a huge shame. And it's interesting that the left is silent about such matters. While they are enlisting to educators' protests, when they should stand up for the unpopulated, even for teachers, they somehow do not mention this aspect of the shortage of numbers. This whole case highlights the unworthy situation of uninoculated state workers in Hungary over the last few years, so the Mi Hazank Movement has launched a petition, which can be signed on our website, or we have submitted a proposal for a resolution in order to indemnify people who have lost their jobs because they have not been vaccinated. You have been telling us for years that it is the anointed representatives of science who have verified the effectiveness of these vaccines, their health, and we can trust these vaccines, and by the way, everyone else, especially the Grandma-Killer of Hungary, who questions whether they are reasonable about the closure or their statements about vaccinations, which have since been factually proven to have been false. Gergely Gulyás said in January 2020 that we know that the person who is vaccinated cannot catch the disease and can't pass it on. Now we know that Gergely Gulyás lied, it's not true what they said about them! But what is perhaps even more serious and the responsibility of the European Commission is very serious that there was no scientific background. The purchase of these vaccines, the Pfizer vaccines, was carried out by Ursula von der Leyen texting, not taking into account any health considerations, in a corrupt way, based on economic considerations, and the Hungarian government forced them on the Hungarian people for years. [[9.20]] Now that this has come to light and proven, the least they could do is apologize to people and compensate those who have suffered any kind of disadvantage because of their insanity. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause for the representatives of our country.]]
u2022-11-09-6	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, gave the answer to the speech by the Vice-President before the agenda. Here you go.
u2022-11-09-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, A politician has to be very careful about what he says, especially when there is a critical situation, say, an epidemic or when we are talking about an epidemic, because that certainly determines the decisions of many people. We have seen it not only with you, but also with other left-wing politicians. [[Dóra Dúró: I'm not left-wing!]] that they said that Eastern vaccines should be taken care of, so one or another member of their party rejected the Eastern vaccines, and this resulted in serious consequences. The exact meaning of the party's leadership's sentence is unknown, but it seems to be affecting people's opinions. You, the politicians of our country, have decided to take a completely anti-vaccination policy, fully and on all fronts, they have spoken against vaccinations. The country was full of you guys calling it a Covid dictatorship. We do not know how much you have said this out of conviction, or how much you have thought that where there is an important topic, the Crown Virus epidemic, which everyone is talking about, there must be people who are very supportive of it, some who are a little supportive, some who accept it, but there must be a small group in which you are opposed, and you need a small group of people, two hundred thousand people to get into Parliament, so you will be anti-vaccination, even though one of your party members and leaders has the vaccine in one of them, but they thought that they would take this political direction. Perhaps they really thought so, and you said on a scientific basis and on a serious virological basis that vaccinations were rejected, although I think this is a small probability, it was more of a political calculation. It's just, you know, there's consequences. There is also a consequence of a tax law, but such a health decision is even more so. They thought that if the country had decided according to your confirmed expectations and there had not been such a wide-ranging vaccination campaign, how much longer would the epidemic have lasted? With our country's policy, it would have taken longer, that's for sure. We cannot say how much more people would have been sick in three months, six or eight months, or 12 months, and how much more people would have been sick in that time, and how much more people would have been sick today, how much more people would have suffered serious complications, and how much more people would have lost their lives if there had been no vaccination and a longer epidemic. There are many kinds of emotional strings to be played, honourable Member, but if there is no vaccination, the epidemic is longer, the epidemic is more serious. In all the countries of Europe and in Hungary, we have succeeded in ending the epidemic faster by allowing people to be vaccinated. There were narrower groups where we made it mandatory, but we never made it mandatory for those with a medical condition that didn't require medical vaccination. We have always considered this rule, not blindly, in general, but in those who have no exception. Anyone with a different disease should not be given. There may have been mistakes, some cases, but there's a system of redress to remedy them. But that doesn't call into question the great rule of defeating the plague faster when we've killed it. This does not call into question the great rule that people go to the hospital because they want to heal there and not catch the plague, so it is especially important that there are security measures and that there should be vaccination in the case of doctors and nurses. Parents do not allow their children into school to be exposed to such an additional risk, but what can be eliminated as a threat, the spread of the epidemic, must be eliminated, so teachers should be vaccinated, as do doctors and nurses, so that we feel safe, so that we do not have to worry double about our child or our sick relative when he goes to the hospital or when we do not have to worry when he goes to school. That is why we have made these decisions, and that is why it is extremely irresponsible for you to proclaim a policy against this, and now you are trying to explain and prove your truth in hindsight. Then they said that the whole vaccination was just a conspiracy theory and that vaccinations wouldn't help to combat the epidemic, and now they're trying to give themselves and their supporters a moral justification. Of course, we cannot agree with the fact that the President of the European Commission or anyone else who expects us to have a comprehensive transparency, public procurement that can be well tracked, tracked, clear, reconstructed subsequently, makes decisions on any important issue in texts that should never be published. This has never been done in Hungary, all public procurement takes place in a transparent and legitimate manner. We regret that this can reduce confidence in the European Union, as people do not see the process of obtaining vaccines as transparent, but Hungary has not only purchased vaccines together with the Union, but also outside it, although you have not stood by either, precisely so that the epidemic can be completed as quickly as possible and the health and lives of as few people as possible are at risk. We're sorry you weren't partners in this. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-11-09-8	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Member Sándor Berki of the Group of Dialogue has applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-11-09-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, I don't know how much you talk to people, your constituents. [[Noise from the pro-government benches. Eszter Vályos, Bence Rétvári, Lárinc Nacsa interrupts: A lot!]] I do. [[Bence Rétvári: With our people? The president's ringing the bell.]] Not in consultation and not in messages, but in person. You can smile on it, but I'm happy to go with any of them, but I don't usually meet you while you're talking to your constituents directly. [[Eszter Vitalos: I've never even met you! Interesting.]] All right. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] From these conversations, it can be very strongly drawn that people are very concerned about their future, worry about the runaway prices, worry about the war, worry about the safety of their jobs, and greatly fear how they will heat their homes during the winter season, and, yes, fear the climate crisis, because after such a dry summer, people have learned what this means. Today, the strongest feeling in people is fear of the future and frustration. Before the election, you promised that there would be cheap Russian gas, that there would be a reduction in the rent, but Russian gas is not cheap, and your KSH says that your energy prices have increased by 60 percent. So it's safe to say they weren't telling the truth. They have betrayed trust, people feel that they do not trust in the future, they do not trust in the country, and they feel that reality is hopeless. There's a reason, I think it's safe to say. Today, Hungary is particularly affected by the energy crisis and is largely responsible for this; for example, by banning low-cost wind energy, taxing solar energy and by the fact that new solar elements can no longer be connected to the network. I believe you promised in 2010 that 10 percent of the apartments will be isolated each year. If this had been continuous and happened, then not now, but two or three years ago, because there is always an increase in the number of insulated apartments, there would be an economical, heatingable, energy-efficient, at least more energy-efficient homes for people to live in. But unfortunately, that's not the case, because you felt that you needed to build stadiums and that we would be okay with that. They've been politicizing with the rent for nine years, but we're back to talking about how people are gonna heat their homes. There is a great danger now in the countryside of what will be the fuel, how it will be available so that they do not freeze in their homes. This is not about a few people, there is no fixed energy in 600,000 households, for example, and 60-40 percent of families spent the winter in unheated homes before the current crisis, hundreds of people were frozen in the cold each year. We were forced to do so not by the sanctions in Brussels, but by your decisions. Orbán said that this was the best governance of the last hundred years. But if this is the best decade of the century for the underprivileged, what can we expect in the future? We could also mention what is related to the climate, the life of the countryside, gas cylinders, wood burning, because there are difficulties in this too. Yeah, there's, uh, reduced or refurbished wood, but it's hard to get, it's got to be paid in one amount, it's kind of a big problem. [[9.30]] I don't think this is a bad idea, so it's a good idea that there is such an opportunity to buy wood like this, but there are serious problems with its implementation itself. It should also be taken into account that there are settlements in the countryside, where there is no fixed water, for example, that should be provided. But here are the postal closures. Locking up a post office in a settlement and going 20 kilometers from there to the next post office, I think that this also makes life in rural areas difficult and puts pressure on the environment, because there is fuel to be used. But to say something good, I think that we, the Dialogue, are constructive in this, and we have expressed our support for our proposals to tackle this. Such is the 200 thousand HUF annual return certificate, which could be used for gas, electricity and firewood by anyone whose income does not exceed the average wage. Such is the energy efficiency support of up to HUF 5 million that the population could use as detailed in our proposal. Such is the adult education programme, whose participants must have at least the minimum wage. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This would help to reduce unemployment as a result of the crisis and the issue of greening. Ladies and gentlemen, It's not too late to start and fix things. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2022-11-09-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer to the speech by Mr Koncz Zsófia, Deputy Minister of State, will be given to him before the agenda. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-11-09-11	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I think that he was talking about a very important issue, obviously the situation of the people, the families, and this is an absolutely essential question: what is the situation with energy supply in Europe, how the overhead prices are developing, and obviously the Hungarian government has been dealing with it from the beginning. Since the outbreak of the war, we have been practically on the side of peace, and we condemn and always pursue solutions and negotiations that are favourable to the Hungarian people, since we are trying to reach decisions on both the oil embargo and the gas embargo that do not endanger the Hungarian energy supply. However, you must also see that this is not what Brussels has promised with regard to war and sanctions. That is not what you promised, because you said that with these sanctions, the war will end and the situation in Europe will be resolved. If you look at the press, you can see that already today European decision-makers see clearly that these sanctions are not exactly the result they may have expected at the very beginning. It was possible to read between the lines when President Macron practically expressed that it was not a friendship on the part of the United States that he wanted to sell LNG to Europe for four times as much as he did in his own country, but it is also possible to read statements about it on a continuous basis. The sanctions are causing energy prices to rise. In this regard, I would like to share only a few facts with Mr President. The price of gas rose slightly at the time of the war, but then it entered a constant level of about $100 on the gas market. The steep rise began when the oil and gas embargo was announced. It may be remembered that this happened after the elections, at the end of May, and that is where energy prices started in the summer. The price of gas was EUR 48 per megawatt in 2021, EUR 129 at the outbreak of the war, so it went up and went back there, and after the sanctions were suspended, EUR 171, and after the announcement of the oil and gas sanctions EUR 350, which was more than a seven-fold increase. So they raised the energy prices to an extreme extent, and then the loading started here, when, apparently, everyone was trying to load them into the gas reservoirs. I think it is a very big achievement that we have managed to load 86 percent and, by the way, we have bought back the natural gas reservoirs that the left has sold. This is a very important issue, because it is a matter of national strategy, and I think that it serves the safety of Hungarian people, that there is energy at all, and that we will have energy within the country. The EU has suffered from sanctions because 40% of gas consumption has so far come from Russia and must be replaced elsewhere. It can be seen that China benefits from European sanctions, the US is also in a comfortable position, but Russia's energy revenues have also been well developed in recent years. What you are asking, Mr President, we are really working to help Hungarian families in this difficult situation. I think it is a very important thing, and it is indeed an incredible effort and result of the Hungarian government that we managed to keep the reduction of the rent to an average consumption, which means HUF 181 thousand per household. It is also very important that, above the world market price, Hungarian families have to pay more favourable prices, and in this connection I am obviously also asking the Member to support investment in Paks II, for example, because these are all projects and investments that are important for our energy security, which will further reduce our gas use in the future. In addition, the firewood programme, the brown coal programme, I think they are also extremely important for Hungarian families, and what is very important is the protection of jobs. However, you must have seen, too, that during the epidemic situation, we were really trying to keep jobs. At this moment 4.7 million people are still working in Hungary, an incredible result. Obviously, if we need it, we will be working on it now, or we are already working on an action plan to protect jobs. So I would like to ask the Member to be able to work together on these common matters and to support the government's actions. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-09-12	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! From the Jobbik Group, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, the notary of Parliament, has applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2022-11-09-13	Mr President, Dear House, In general, the crisis period is accompanied by a certain increase in unemployment. We note that we are very lucky that mass unemployment is not expected in Hungary in these moments and days. [[Intercoms from the pro-government ranks, including Lőrinc Nacsa: Luck?!]] However, the problems caused by the shortage of labour cause brutal problems, and there has been a very strange dissonance, and perhaps my fellow Members who are now intervening will also understand what I mean. Only from the manufacturing industry came a signal that about 100,000 workers are missing, so they cannot fill these places with Hungarian workers. At the same time, we see that more than 100,000 migrant workers are being organized by the government, and we have another 100 000 items: the unemployment benefit system is falling out by the order of 100,000 of our countrymen who are unemployed every day, who are looking for work, who have completed their schools at home, they have already exceeded the three-month deadline that basically does not receive state aid after three months. We are talking about one of Europe's most narrow unemployment care systems. At the same time, there are hundreds of thousands of employees from abroad, and 100 thousand Hungarian workers who have fallen out of the country are far from being adequately supported, let's say, with free re-training opportunities. The government has already concluded a two-year strategic agreement with temporary employment companies with whom it has paved the way for organised third-world labour imports. Then, in recent months, six more non-EU countries have entered this area, so workers have been recruited from 17 non-EU countries, including Brazil, Colombia, the Philippines, the Republic of Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Mongolia and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. The fact is that they recruit jobs that could be filled from among their home countries. Let's just mention IT experts, because I see that the recruitment list includes IT as a profession, but in the case of 100,000 Hungarians who have fallen out of the Hungarian unemployment benefit system, I do not see a free IT training program that provides marketable knowledge. In the same way, we see that you want to recruit carpenters from these countries, restaurant workers, meat processors, checkers and even calibration technicians. The fact is that the professions concerned can be found on a very extensive, multi-page list, but we do not see that, in the case of domestic jobseekers, there is the same level of willingness to help these people with free re-training programmes, to help them to thrive in the homeland, because very many people are forced to leave the country. [[9.40]] So instead of Brazilian and Colombian workers, we would be much more open to raising budgetary support for the re-training programmes concerned. What is quite amazing, however, is that the announcement comes from many workplaces, that they threaten the Hungarian workers that if they have problems, the Asians will come instead, who will not speak back to me. And the fact is, this printing not only destroys working conditions, but also the general standard of wages. Obviously, those working from the third world are not here for a salary of one and a half times compared to Hungarians, but the break in the general wage level can be done. Even harsher is that there is a large car manufacturer that employs 50 Indian workers, otherwise in the longer term, so it is a multi-annual period. At the same time, this car manufacturer receives budget support from Hungarian taxpayers to keep jobs. Why don't you get this budget support to keep the Hungarians' jobs? Our proposal, which has appeared to Parliament several times in the last few years as a Hungarian quota, is quite clear: only a company, typically multi-company, can benefit from any kind of state aid that undertakes to have at least 95 percent of the labour force working with it as a national, Hungarian or at least an EEA national. Anyone who can comply with this 95 percent requirement will be able to argue in order to receive any kind of support from the Hungarian taxpayers. I would also like to add that I would not hold back from the idea of suspending this whole non-refundable scheme, rethinking it, opening it to small and medium-sized enterprises much stronger. But the point of my question is this: the government undertakes to provide non-refundable support from Hungarian taxpayers' money only to companies that provide at least 95% [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] they employ a Hungarian workforce. Thank you for your attention.
u2022-11-09-14	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. The answer is addressed to Deputy Minister János Fónagy, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2022-11-09-15	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, It touched on several topics, but the basis you're talking about is so important that I take the time available. I think there is no debate between us that, based on its poor historical experience, Hungarian society is basically the most afraid of unemployment to this day, so that families lose their safety of life, they lose reliable fixed income. Experience is bad. I know we get criticism every time we refer to historical examples, but, well, they say that people who don't know their history are condemned to relive it. Before the change of regime, when the Hungarian economy was facing a structural change that was targeted but not implemented, it was unemployment. After the change of regime, more than one million unemployed people were in Hungary, traditional industries disappeared, and whole parts of the country were broken down in terms of employment and reliable livelihoods. I guess there's no argument between us. The recent examples show, for example, that surveys under Covid show that you also like to refer to surveys, that even during Covid time, much of the people, the families, were not most afraid of the epidemic, but that, as a result of the epidemic, the family head or members of the family who live on wages and salaries lose their income, or if the family chose the business as a way of life, their business will become impossible. So in that this is an essential matter, I think there is no debate between us. At the same time, when criticising today's phenomena in its comments, I would ask you to take into account that the unemployment rate today was 3.5 to 3.6 percent, and in 2010 it was close to 12 percent. Today, some 4 million 700 thousand people work, essentially working with a million more people, have incomes than they did ten years ago. The real value of net average earnings has increased by 70 percent since 2010. The minimum wage has increased, the minimum wage for skilled workers has increased. The purchase value of the minimum wage, as an example of many numbers, increased by about 100 percent between 2010-22. If you take these numbers and I say that today there are about 4 million 700 thousand people working in Hungary, and you are, for example, 50 people who are not known by me, but I do not doubt that their data are reliable and mention foreign Asian workers, I believe that, under the law of large numbers, this does not define and does not affect the labour market in any way. However, what I am debating may have already been said by one of my fellow State Secretarys of State that the statements of politicians in the Hungarian Parliament are of particular importance, so I ask that we be careful with the numbers. You have acknowledged it very correctly, and I thank you for the fact that there is no mass unemployment in the current situation, but at the same time how many people are missing from the Hungarian labour market, I do not know in such an exact way. I'm sure there are surveys, I don't dispute that you have one, but at the same time this missing labour force... and that explains to some extent that some companies, by the way, have little employment or are looking for foreign workers compared to all employees, and that is in the structure of the labour force that they have. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] prepared by the Hungarian society to satisfy them. So I would ask you to take these into account when considering this issue. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-11-09-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Dávid Bedő applied for a speech from the Momentum Group before the agenda. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-11-09-17	Thank you for the floor. We have talked a lot about the failed economic policy of the government within and outside the walls of Parliament, that they are currently completely inadequate to deal with this current crisis; and also about how inflation has escaped in our country, how prices have increased in shops, and of course, that the government is pointing again at imaginary enemies instead of taking responsibility, rather than dealing with this crisis. [[Bence Rétvári: No sanctions...]] They would have had 12 years to save, to think ahead, but this did not happen, and every Hungarian now pays the price of this, the so-called Fidesz price. What we talked about much less, however, is the responsibility of the Hungarian National Bank for putting the Hungarian economy in such a situation. One of the main tasks of the MNB, led by György Matolcsy, would have been to preserve the value of the Hungarian currency, to combat inflation and to try to preserve the power of the forint against other currencies. We all know the result: historical, 20 percent inflation and record weak, low to low forints. Let's remember what the MNB was up to instead of doing its job. For 32 billion forints, Postapolota was renovated; for 55 billion they started the renovation of the central bank building; for 4 billion they bought and renovated the Castle Garden Palace; for villas, real estates and paintings they bought for billions, while buying communication advice for 3 billion a year. More than HUF 100 billion was spent on meaningless investments by the MNB. With this amount of money, every Hungarian teacher could get an immediate 20% increase in wages. One could rightly ask the question of where the Hungarian National Bank had so much money. The answer is simple: In 2015, when foreign exchange loans were forinted, the central bank sold the currency to commercial banks, of course for much more than it originally bought, because in five years it was able to devalue 20 percent on the forint. [[9.50]] Of course, as is appropriate for the Fidesz system, the family and circle of the central bank president György Matolcsy pulled billions from all the investments, purchases and communications councils. The MNB's money, which, of course, is public money, was set up in foundations, and then, as Lajos Kósa explained very well at the time, it became foundation money, and from there it quickly became private property; and then it became the son of the central bank president's Porsche collection. But if we ignore the meaningless money-spending and corruption around the MNB and just look at the professional part of it, we don't get a very bright picture. There is very little confidence in the MNB in both domestic and international markets. This is mainly due to the fact that they made almost pointless one of the most important assets of the central banks, the base rate, by separating it from one week's deposit interest. As a result, no one believes the MNB and its announcements, its actions, and they bring little results. Of course, György Matolcsy was not completely inadequate alone, he had help. Márton Nagy served as Vice President for five years and did such a good job at the MNB that he continued to be incompetent as the Minister for Economic Development of the current government? Of course there's a result. Now that the good old days are over, when billions can be outsourced to foundations, and then to friends, the crisis has arrived, and they soon realized that the MNB will not produce billions, and instead it is likely that it will close the next years with a loss of a hundred billion, which the Hungarian budget will not bear, so they will smear losses for five years, so that they will not hurt the public finances so much. And don't forget the small amendment to raise György Matolcsy's salary, because he did such a good job. He didn't get enough of the five million dollars a month and the billions that the family had outsourced. I wish I could raise the teacher's salary with that confidence. To sum up, we have a central bank and its president, György Matolcsy, under whose leadership the forint weakened by nearly 50 percent. At this weakening, his family and friends became billionaires. Nobody trusts Magyar Nemzeti Bank anymore because of their corruption cases, on the one hand because of the separation of the base rate and the deposit interest rate, and because they communicate in a mess. They could not fight inflation effectively, they allowed it to get completely out of control, and Hungarians paid one of the highest inflation rates in Europe. György Matolcsy should not be given a raise, but a paper box in which he can pack and find himself a job that does not exceed his abilities. Thank you. [[Moore in the pro-government benches. It's a rare round of applause from the opposition. Nacsa Lawrence:]]
u2022-11-09-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. I believe that criticism can also be given at an appropriate level, and you certainly do not have a degree that supports professionally and can qualify someone accordingly. [[Dávid Bedő: Once again, we see the independent leader! Thank you very much. I'll take your advice. It's an intervention from the Fidesz: It was very tough, wasn't it?]] So let's try to keep what is customary in this Parliament. Mr Balázs Fürjes, Deputy Minister of State, I give the floor for the answer.
u2022-11-09-19	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, It occurred to me that Peter Ungár didn't get any smarter today. He gave an interview to 24.hu last week; in this your ally says about you, the Momentum: I do not understand what is around the Momentum, it is surrounded by a complete mistake. Their support has declined since the election, they have internal conflicts because they cannot decide whether the president who has been elected or who has resigned. They don't have a pervasive message. I don't know what they want from the world. I don't know what they're saying. Well, Peter Ungár didn't know what the Momentum thought he wanted from the world today. We have learned, Honourable Parliament, that the Hungarian National Bank has not respected its independence since 1990 with constitutional guarantees. This is interesting, because so far, since 90, left and right, left and right governments have more or less respected the left, and the right has more respect for the independence of the central bank. I would like to draw attention to the fact that in 1994, when the first left-wing government took office, they had strong political pressure to remove Ákos Bod as the independent central bank president, but even if the previous left-wing government could work with him, respect his independence and not exert political pressure on him. Under right-wing governments, the President of the Central Bank appointed by the former left-wing government has always completed his term of office. So in the interest of respecting the independence of the central bank, I cannot argue with you, and we continue to respect the independence of the central bank. If you have an argument with György Matolcsy, keep this going. On the other hand, at the beginning of his speech, he spoke about the failure of economic policy, inflation, and the justification for it for what has been said. Then let's talk about sanctions, because you're saying it was your main statement last week that the sanctions worked, and Momentum keeps talking about it. What's wrong with sanctions? If it's economics. I don't have a degree, I never said anything about myself, I got my law degree with integrity, but I also have some experience as a former CEO in economic matters. With sanctions, I am talking about the fundamental economic problem of energy sanctions: the vulnerable, weaker customer wants to repel the dominant seller. We can't buy energy from anyone else, Europe can't buy energy from anyone else, or much more expensive, but the Russians can sell it to someone else. Well, then, what are the chances for Europe to use energy sanctions? The European Union has deceived Europeans, including Hungarians, three times in the matter of sanctions. First, when the war broke out, even in the spirit of sobriety, the Heads of Government said that they knew the basic economic situation, that we were in the position of a vulnerable, weaker buyer on energy, and that the Russians were dominant sellers, who were happy to sell to China, India, to other places, the liberated energy sources. So at the beginning, the leaders of the European Union, the leaders of the Member States, said that there would be no energy guarantee after that. Then they said it would be because he was going to bring Russia to its knees and stop the war. You didn't force him to kneel, you didn't stop the war. Russia's revenues are increasing from energy sales. Then they also said that it would not hurt Europe. Well, Europe is sorely hit by energy sanctions. Europe weakens itself, destroys its energy supply and trade links with nothing else, or we can only buy much more expensively. She also referred to it, and President Macron spoke of American-Norwegian friendship: they want to sell gas to Europe four times as much as they want to sell gas on their domestic markets. So we are not talking about energy independence, but we are trying to navigate Europe from one addiction to another, while we are interested in more gas from more sources, more energy carriers coming from more sources, more competition, and then the price will be cheaper. At last, stand on the side of Hungarian interests, say that it is in Hungary's interest to ensure that the sanctions harm us and finally fight to get the funds we need from Brussels. Break up with foreign customers sending dollars and finally stand in favour of Hungarian sovereignty! Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-09-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. From the MSZP Group, Ms Zita Gurmai applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2022-11-09-21	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. Hungary is drifting into a livelihood disaster under the government of Fidesz, you have doubled the price of electricity, you have increased gas by seven times, and you are making the forints more worthless every day, which makes it more and more brutal in the shops. And the biggest damage to this process is the pensioners. You not only stand by and watch old people working their lives without them, but also profit from them and damage them. They are winning because Fidesz gives the Pakson 12 HUF electricity for 70 HUF, you have raised the price of Russian gas that is supposed to be cheap by seven times, and on top of that, you add 27 percent tax on the already expensive bills. What if it's not insolence and inhumane profiteering? Aren't you ashamed? ! But there's more down there, because you're even damaging the needy pensioners. Have you seen how much inflation the KSH has shown? More than 20 percent. [[10.00]] Compared to this, the Fidesz government wants to give a 4.5 percent retrospective pension increase and a single 10.000 HUF pension premium. Don't you feel how humiliating this is? After all, real pricey takes the multiples of this money. But let's count how much you've raised so far. If I remember correctly, they want to give 5 percent in January, 3.9 percent in July and 4.5 percent in November. Either way, it's still less than 15 percent. Compared to this, food inflation is above 30 percent, and even more than 60 percent for bread is fidesz expensive. After that, it makes perfect sense to ask why the Fidesz government only gives the pensioners a 4.5 percent increase in November. Where is this compared to real price increases? And then we didn't even talk about the single pension premium, and there's the fidesz bullshit. In this year's budget, 68 billion HUF 460 million was planned for the payment of the pension premium, whereas the current HUF 10 thousand pension premium costs only HUF 23.5 billion, and 23.5 billion out of 68 billion are paid. I ask what will happen to the remaining HUF 45 billion. I hope the Secretary of State can give you a reassuring answer. Why don't you give that to the pensioners? Don't you guys really feel the shame of what you're doing to pensioners? ! Why is Fidesz stealing from retired people? We MSZPs tell them to give pensioners the pension increase that offsets real inflation. In November this year, pensioners will receive an 8-10 percent pension increase, and next January they will not raise pensions by 5.2 percent, but by 15.7 percent, and the Fidesz government will not save the 45 billion HUF pension premium, but also give it to pensioners! Ladies and gentlemen, What I'm about to say is not just numbers. We're not gonna decide about numbers, we're gonna decide about human lives, because it's winter, it's cold, and pensioners are gonna have to eat, they're gonna have to heat, they're gonna have to dress, but they don't have the money, because Fidesz is gonna steal them. And one more thing: before any of you start pointing back, I'll tell you it's 2022. You've been in government for over 12 years, so if you answer, you're gonna have to deal with the current situation, because pointing backwards doesn't make a pensioner's life any better, except the fidesz responder makes you look like a clown. I'm waiting for your answer. Why not give as many pension increases as would be based on real inflation, and why not pay the HUF 45 billion as a pension premium, which is in the budget anyway? I wonder if you're capable of giving a meaningful answer to this situation, or just pointing back at me as a clown. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2022-11-09-22	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer to your speech, before the agenda, will be from Mr András Tállai, Deputy Minister of State. Here you go.
u2022-11-09-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Although you forbade me from being able to, if I understand correctly, to speak. [[Defiance from the Fidesz ranks.]] The government representative of the past, but if you'll allow me, I would, though I understand you don't want your consent. I would like to warn you, because we are comparing the policy and values of the left, the MSZP with the pensioners and the current government, the Fidesz-KDNP. Between 2006-2010, when the crisis came in their governance, it was true that there was no war, and it was true, there was no energy crisis, but the crisis came, and at that time the value of pensions was reduced. They reduced it by 4 percent, and they also took away the 13th month's pension. It was a crisis, it was a difficult time, the current government can resolve it without taking me away from pensioners, even giving them what is in the law, what the current government took in 2010, and you took it away. [[Dr. Gurmai Zita intervenes.]] Let's see where you're slipping in your speech. It's not a 4.5 percent pension increase. For the fourth time this year, on Friday, November 11, this year, there will be a pension supplement, a pension bonus for pensioners. For the first time there was 5 percent on 1 January, on 1 February they received the 13th month pension, in July they received a 3.9 percent pension increase going back to January [[Dr. Gurmai Zita intervenes.]] And now they get 4.5 percent, which means that the rate of the pension increase will be 14 percent per year. [[Dr. Gurmai Zita keeps interrupting.]] Even if he's in the middle of this, it's still the same. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] 14 percent of the pension. If we look at the annual inflation rate, it will be around 14 percent. However, I suggest that you look at how the calculation of the pension premium should be carried out, because the calculation of the pension premium, when included in the budget, obviously the government calculated higher economic growth, and that is why this was done. Economic growth will be lower for known reasons, but there is growth, and pensioners will still receive a pension premium of around HUF 10 000. So on Friday, the pensioners receive three types of funds: their regular pension, the raise, the 4.5 percent increase going back to January 1st. [[Sic!]] Plus, they're gonna get the pension premium. This represents a total payment of more than HUF 600 billion to pensioners now. I think you're wrong when you're trying to attack this government by not taking fair account of pensioners. I think that this is the first government of Hungary, which accounts for pensions so sincerely and with such respect, and keeps the promise made for 12 years, which is nothing more than simple, we must preserve the purchasing value of pensions. And look how hard it is to keep up. It was difficult after 2010, when it was a difficult economic period, because you left us this. It was difficult to start the economy, it was difficult to get the budget on track so that tax revenue could finance public expenditure, including pensions, but it was successful, and when the economy was on a growing path, we still valued pensioners, and they still benefited from economic growth in a proportionate way, and every year, the expectation that the value of pensions would remain. That is the case now, when times are difficult. These are difficult times, because you, you support sanctions for what reasons, of course, will come to light, support sanctions, and sanctions will harm this country. Unfortunately, sanctions trigger inflation, trigger an energy crisis, put the economy in a difficult position, and unfortunately, Hungarian families are also in a difficult situation, but the government wants to help pensioners among other things. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-11-09-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congresswoman Andrea Hegedüs from the DK Group applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2022-11-09-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Hungary's budget is in trouble, in ruins, in the skies, millions of Hungarians are in a livelihood crisis because of the Orbán government. The forint is one of the weakest, most vulnerable money in the world, the salary is getting less and the rent is brutal. EU money is not coming, because Hungary is not a rule of law, and because they are tired of stealing their money here. The Orbán government also admits that it does not consider the security of social care important, and that everyone should take care of it as best they can. As a school leader, as a teacher, I experience the crisis of education. The Orbán government has ruined education, and for the first time in 12 years, it has entrusted education, the Hungarian future, to a Reformed minister, and then to a doctor who destroys health care, and now to a police officer. There's no Ministry of Education, there's no area for education that's gonna work. [[10.10]] Because of the lack of children's and educators, as well as the runaway utility prices, schools are closed and merged across the country. In 18 degrees, double sweater or jacket, students and teachers shivering for eight hours. So you can't study or teach. When the first Orbán government failed, the new government started working with a 50 percent increase in teacher wages. They didn't say there was no money, because the Union doesn't give. We were not even members of the Union yet, yet we could raise wages. The 2002 wage increase in 2010, despite the crisis, meant a significant increase in real wages of more than 30% compared to 2002. Before 2010, there was strike law, there was free textbook selection, the municipalities operated the schools, and they appointed the directors with knowledge of local relations. They didn't put prairies, school district leaders on teachers' necks, and there was no political pressure on teachers. Yes, in that free world, the Gyurcsány government worked. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Free World...]] Before 2010, more people applied for teaching careers than they do now. This year's footage shows that there are majors that no one else is applying for. The biggest problem is they don't listen to them, there's only the dictatorship, there's no threat, no disciplinary action, no firing strategy. If this goes on, in ten years there will be no one to teach, and if the emigration continues, the parents will have their children under their arms to flee to the dying West, then there will be no one to teach. It's all a crime of the Orbán government. You attacked the Gyurcsány government by introducing tuition fees. Let's not pretend that every six months, hundreds of thousands of forints you ordered to pay after 2010 wouldn't have tuition fees. The brutal tuition fees were introduced by the Orbán government. Where were hundreds of thousands of monthly mandatory deposits before 2010? ! Fewer people go to college now than during the Gyurcsány government. And that's a statistical fact. The demonstrations of tens of thousands of people across the country are a strong warning that they can't go on like this. DK, of course, supports these. [[Bence Rétvári: But they don't want any of this!]] It's a pleasure to see there's a new generation here that you're exactly old, repudiated, despicable, like the Fidesz used to be the party of state. Now everyone can see that the problem with Fidesz wasn't that the system was broken, but that they weren't sitting on top of it. Students protesting on the street, who stand by their teachers, also reject the entire Avít, antiquated, corrupt Orbán system. [[Eszter Vitalos: You are being rejected!]] Nor can the promising future be seen, which is what the Orbán government has judged. The shadow government led by Dobrev Klára has already agreed with the teachers' unions because there is no successful governance without real coordination. We demand that the redundant teachers be reinstated, the right to strike, the immediate 45 percent wage increase, and the unpaid overtime be paid. The shadow government would re-assess the missed wage increases to the current minimum wage. Once again, there is a need for uniform public service protection for all those working in education. It should be fixed so that teachers' classes, occupations, overtimes are paid. A review of the teacher's system of advancement should be carried out and the current system of qualification and supervision, which is inadequate in all respects, should be abolished. We act accordingly for the freedom of education [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] and the future of education. Thank you for your attention. [[Zsolt Gréczy applauds.]]
u2022-11-09-26	Thank you very much. Madam Congresswoman, I did not stop you during your speech, but I think that you should apologize for saying the word "pribék" because this should be proved. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: What about... Eszter Vitalos: He's in the shadows.]] The answer, honourable Members, will be given by Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State.
u2022-11-09-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If you are interested in the relationship between you and freedom, honourable Member, all you need to do is to turn back the wheel of time by 16 years, in this autumn, here in Budapest, in 2006 how you felt about the freedom of the Hungarian people. Rubber bullets and batons [[Zsolt Gréczy: You wanted to use an arsenal! András Nyitray...]] Cardboarding, and they're defending that period now, they're yelling at me right now, and they're saying it was right then. [[Andrea Hegedüs: The situation of teachers was better! The president's ringing the bell.]] to use political violence against the masses of peaceful people on the streets of Budapest. [[Andrea Hegedüs: This is bullshit!]] Congressman Gréczy yells at me several times, you yell at me because they still defend that Gyurcsány period. [[Andrea Hegedüs: What about education? What about the teachers' wages? The president's ringing the bell.]] You're talking about how each one of you has to override some of your decisions, but you've seen this fundamental decision with your own eyes, that you've stepped up against people with tear gas, a baton, rubber bullets, who have peacefully demonstrated... [[Andrea Hegedüs: At the time of the left, teachers received a 50 percent wage increase!]]
u2022-11-09-28	Congresswoman, I'm warning you. [[Dr. László Pósán intervenes.]]
u2022-11-09-29	It is perfectly understandable that the truth hurts the left, obviously there is no mention of it in DK forums, they live in their own shadow world or bubble and talk like that. But, honourable Member, on freedom, on the free assembly of people, on their freedom of opinion, if any of you do not speak. The other is, say, András Fekete-Győr, who sometimes barges into a newspaper when there are unattractive articles, because he believes that it is necessary to solve it by breaking the door on a journalist who does not write what he would like to read. This is your idea of freedom. Since we've been in government, this hasn't happened. No one has to fear that if you go out, you will have blood on your way home, or you will be abused in any way, honourable Member. So much for you and freedom. Let's take a look at you and the teachers. I quote from the DK's Facebook page literally, listen up! It's extraordinary! DK is the only party to vote against the package of corruption in Orbán in Parliament today. The package supporting corruption in Orbán is synonymous with educator wage increases. I do not know how corruption can be seen from your point of view if we use both domestic resources and EU funds to raise teachers' wages, but you are proud to announce in large letters on your own Facebook site that you voted 'no' to have domestic and EU funds for a teacher's wage increase. They voted against the increase in teacher's wages for the next three years, out of an unprecedented amount of HUF 1200 billion. You are proud of this, honourable Member, that in this Parliament, what you have had the opportunity to do, you have tried to prevent us from getting EU funds, and if we can get it, we can give it to teachers. It's you! That is what they said on the debate day, and they are opposed to paying for it from a budget rather than from an EU source. I do not think that anyone in this country understands why the most important objective of DK is to have only half the amount of money to raise wages and not double the amount of money, honourable Member. It's infuriating! And they're still defending their tuition proposal that they've made teacher training a tuition student. You said you needed more educators in teacher training. Look at the figures of the number of state scholarship educators enrolled in 2010: 5422. And in 2022: 6729, honourable Member. But if there were tuition fees for teachers, there'd probably be fewer applicants, and I'm sure there'd be fewer admissions, and I'm sure there'd be fewer state scholarships. Yeah, of course, it would be a government scholarship zero, because this year you would have taken away the possibility of free teacher training from 6729 students who would be able to study free of charge, and if you were, you could study with reimbursement, study with tuition. And you're still proud of it today. [[Andrea Hegedüs: No teacher!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and He was so blinded even on the left with very few fellow Members. It seems to me that DK is the leader in this, that you are able to say that here there have been a demonstration of sympathy for the Dobrev Shadow Government in the last few weeks. [[Zsolt Gréczy: We didn't say that!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to inform you that there were various demands from teachers on the street, but the most important issue for each of them, and we believe that the most important issue currently to be settled, was wage increases. That is why we are also striving to speed up and increase wage increases. Don't mistake him for that. Don't try to say it, because I think the people there would deny you that you were protested here alongside Klara Dobrev's shadow government and your shadow education minister, who was convicted of breaking into a friend's house with a group of guns and threatening them and beating them. [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] And you make him Minister of Education. And you say that this shadow government is where the people stood in protests. You didn't find a man on the entire left who wouldn't have been convicted by the court to make him shadow minister of education? ! That's disrespectful to teachers. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Zsolt Gréczy:... you're lying. You're gonna pay a lot of money...]]
u2022-11-09-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Nacsa will wait for you when you get the floor, and now you will have the floor. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Yes.]] From the KDNP Group, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa applied to speak before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[10.20]]
u2022-11-09-31	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, The Russian-Ukrainian war has been going on for nine months now, and the European Union is responding to it with a new sanction package. However, we see that, in particular, these sanctions on energy and levitated will fail, as they will bring the European economy to its knees. As a result, sanctioned inflation is increasing, energy prices are skyrocketing and food and raw materials prices have been rising for a long time. The Hungarian economy is also facing very serious challenges, despite the fact that, after the pandemic, we have experienced serious economic growth, and the Hungarian economy has been able to develop significantly during the years of the pandemic. Yes, let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that the Hungarian economy has stood up stronger from a crisis caused by a pandemic. But in the meantime, what did you do? Before and after the election, foreign support for their campaign and their various events was adopted in the order of billions. [[Zsolt Gréczy: It's not true!]] American money in the campaign of the Hungarian left. And what did they get the money for? To incite hatred, morale, and scandal. Péter Márki-Zay, who was your joint Prime Minister's candidate this year, said at an organized event organized with American money in September: "The government must be hated and united. Your Prime Minister's candidate said we need hatred and solidarity. This hatred is now at the heart of your policy. This hatred told Ferenc Gyurcsány that they would make Hungarian right-wing intellectuals a runaway in every sense, this hatred said Ferenc Gyurcsány when he threatened us with no mercy. Because of this hatred, András Fekete-Győr threw smoke grenades at the service officers, which is why the sleds for donations were set on fire in Kossuth Square, and that is why Ákos Hadházy's demonstration was set on fire in front of the public media building. Foreign-funded hatred, that's all that's left of your politics today: dollar left and hate ballet. The biggest problem, ladies and gentlemen, is that you hate us more than you love your country, and that is a huge problem, honourable Members. [[Zsolt Gréczy: This is backwards.]] That's enough about you, let's look ahead, because for many times now, it seems like we can't count on the left again in crisis, and we need to help businesses without you in this difficult situation. Fidesz-KDNP's priority objective remains, despite all difficulties, to maintain full employment, and the government has therefore taken several new economic policy measures to mitigate the negative impact of the energy crisis on Hungarian companies. The first of these was the programme to help energy-intensive SMEs, to which we will spend HUF 100-100 billion this year and next year, and the proposal has already been launched. The other part of the programme is the factory rescue programme announced on 2 November. In order to prevent domestic companies from achieving the economic recession that is becoming a reality in Europe, the government has, rightly, decided to launch a factory rescue programme. The programme provides non-refundable support to large companies for energy efficiency or energy-generating investments. A maximum of 30 per cent can be achieved in Budapest and 45 per cent in the countryside, and a company can be eligible for a maximum of EUR 15 million, and the investment carried out must be worth at least EUR 500 000. Ladies and gentlemen, The European economy is going into recession because of war and sanctions. This also has a significant impact on Hungary due to the interconnectedness of the common market and the European economy. Our goal, Hungarians, is to stay out of this. We want to be a local exception in a global crisis. To this end, we need to help SMEs and companies in Hungary to maintain their operation and to increase their capacity. The success and necessity of the announced programme is confirmed by the fact that the factory rescue programme had to be completed 20 minutes after the application was opened, as 168 companies had notified the request. In addition to these companies, 214 companies started registration, but the companies concerned were given the opportunity to apply. Most applications came from the food and metal industry, but also from the automotive and mechanical industries, a significant number of applications were made. Actors of the Hungarian economy and Hungarian workers can count on the help of Fidesz-KDNP, as we have already achieved countless economic successes thanks to the government's economic policy and the hard work of the Hungarian people. Let this be the case in the future. Thank you for listening. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-11-09-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Menczer, State Secretary, will give the answer to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2022-11-09-33	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Before I turn to economic issues, the factory rescue programme and other measures, let me respond to your comment on the left, on the left and on the dollar, on the left and on the other side. Yes, the fact is that the Hungarian left goes traditionally, traditionally and continuously abroad for help, and in Hungary the Hungarian people cannot gain their trust. That's why they're always trying to get support abroad so they can convert it into power at home. [[Eszter Vitalos: That's what they've always done.]] and, as it turns out, they have recently received not only support but not only political support from abroad, but also financial and financial support. And, yes, from now on there is no surprise that they represent the interests of those who give the money and not the interests of the Hungarian people. This is not surprising, but it is extremely regrettable, and I said it very gently at the time. The other thing I would like to respond to is that I am still a little under the influence of the Member of the Gyurcsányist, and perhaps this is also linked to what you have mentioned. After all, the Congresswoman has outlined something here, which is not to be subtle and restrained, diplomatic since I can represent the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, that the Gyurcsány era was a success and compared Gyurcsány's performance with the performance of the Orbán government. I always pay attention to such comparisons with great interest, although it may not be the right term, because the Gyurcsány period and the left-wing government had no performance, so there is nothing to compare. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Then why did you defeat Viktor Orbán?]] Or what it was was so tragic that it was a state failure, taking pensions, taking salaries, and huge unemployment. [[Eszter Vitalos: School closure.]] Here, I would like to relate to what you said about the economic measures. When the Orbán government took over the country in 2010, unemployment was 11.5-12 percent, and we decided not to finance unemployment, but to finance the preservation or creation of jobs, and we have been pursuing this policy ever since. [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] And even if this is not good for Mr Gréczy, and we have pursued this policy under the Crown Virus, that is to say, we have spent resources to preserve jobs and, where they cannot be preserved, to create new ones where possible. The result of this work and cooperation, the cooperation of the government and the Hungarian people is that there are 4.7 million people working in Hungary, which is a historical record, one million more than the number of people working in 2010. That is why it is always very interesting when the left is concerned about creating and preserving jobs, because they had unemployment in heaven. Now some specifics and some details. So as of 15 November, the government will extend the interest rate stop to loans from small and medium-sized enterprises, so that interest rates on non-state-supported, variable-interest loans will be fixed at 7,77 per cent, this decision will affect HUF 2000 billion of loans and 60,000 of businesses, and by the middle of next year HUF 80 billion will be saved. This also means that on average approximately HUF 1.5-2 million can remain in a Hungarian company's account. The second measure also makes it easier to obtain the loan products of the Széchenyi Card programme with a 3.5 percent interest rate by 1 January 2023 and a 5 percent interest rate by the first half of 2023. The third measure is that the Cabinet is currently working with the Hungarian Banking Association to ensure that credit institutions that lend more will pay lower bank taxes, which will pay less and more. This also serves to boost and help the economy. The fourth measure, to which Mr Vice-President of the Group pointed out that the government had allocated HUF 200 billion to small and medium-sized enterprises in the energy intensive manufacturing sector. This year alone, we will spend HUF 75 billion to compensate for the operating cost increases caused by a drastic increase in energy prices, and we will support energy efficiency investments in energy intensive manufacturing SMEs by another 25 billion. On 2 November our factory rescue program was launched, we support the energy efficiency improvements of the successful companies, with 30 percent support intensity in Budapest and up to 45 percent in rural areas. 200 million HUF development expansion is a condition of this, with a budget of 150 billion. [[10.30]] It was a huge over-subscription, it shows the success of the program, but as about Szijjártó [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Minister for Foreign Affairs has also reported, we will allow everyone who has started registration and, where appropriate, has not been able to finish there, we will allow him to submit his application in this programme. Thank you for asking. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-11-09-34	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi has applied for a speech from the Fidesz Group before the agenda. Here you go, Congresswoman. You have the floor.
u2022-11-09-35	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Mr. Secretary of State! Fellow Members! A terrible war has become a tangible reality for millions of people in Ukraine overnight. The security of refugees from Ukraine is of paramount importance to us. The position of Fidesz-KDNP and the Hungarian government has been clear since the first day of the war: we want peace in Ukraine. As a neighbouring country, our solidarity and support expressed at the beginning of the war is unbroken towards the attacked party. In this way, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán supported Ukraine's accession to the European Union in the European Council and urged that negotiations be launched as soon as possible to promote the creation of conditions for effective accession. We cannot stress that we Hungarians are in the interest of peace. Ladies and gentlemen, When the war broke out, the greatest humanitarian action in Hungary's history began, which we will continue as long as we need it. They're already giving help to those arriving at the border 24 hours a day. We see unprecedented cooperation in Hungary. Not only did the charitable organisations organise the assistance, many volunteered to join these actions in their spare time. At border crossings, hot drinks are served 24 hours a day, and children are often offered chocolate. They thought about babies, too. They've built equipped diapers in several places. At the border, temporary waiting rooms stood up in no time, where they could rest; these places were also provided for the reception of children. Everyone's doing their part, doing their part to reduce the shocks of refugees. The Hungarians came from the heart and voluntarily, almost without a call and helped. As an aid shipment, we sent large quantities of food, industrial goods, bandages and pharmaceutical packages so that we could provide all the help we could to those trapped in Ukraine. For refugees who are forced to leave their homes, we have established several transit accommodations and relief points across the country, and we are constantly providing for the placement of children in school and kindergarten. We have paid particular attention to unaccompanied minors, and Hungary has fulfilled its international obligations in this area in the future. But not only did help arrive at the borders, but also in Budapest at the BOK Hall. BOK is open day and night as a transit point, food and drink, medical care, toilet facilities, travel organisation, internet access for refugees in close cooperation with charitable organisations and volunteers. The new humanitarian waiting room is a 24-hour closed area for refugees to arrive by bus and by foot. There is a continuous medical care in the reception centers, and a children's corner, a baby-mama room with a diaper and a lactating room was created by Family Friendly Hungary. It is also important to mention that during the summer we have also provided camping opportunities for hundreds of children, and that we are working to provide income for those who now live temporarily in Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, After the war broke out, you could volunteer at the BOK Hall. Older people, students, they came to give up their free time, they helped. Everyone here worked together for the benefit of refugees; with fantastic faith, endurance, excellent cooperation. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank, on behalf of the Fidesz and KDNP fractions, all those who sacrifice their free time to make refugees bearable the trauma that they often had to leave their homes with a suitcase. War is hard on all of us. Thanks to the civilians, thanks to the charities, thanks to the mayors on the border, the mayor's offices. Thanks to the Metropolitan Government Office, the BKK bus drivers, the foreign police staff, the police, the police, sports clubs, who took in athletes from Ukraine, who often gave accommodation to families, they took them in for several nights. Thanks also to those who took in refugees for weeks, months. Hungary helps, Hungarians can always be expected. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-11-09-36	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Miklós Soltész. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2022-11-09-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear Parliament, Indeed, the greatest humanitarian action of the past three quarters of years has been carried out in Hungary, and if it can be described in one word, this is the cooperation. Collaboration here, in Hungary, in Transcarpathia and in the other part of Ukraine, in larger parts, in Internal Ukraine. This was created and created by a fantastic collaboration between Hungarian people, government and charitable organisations. We started with the program for the Transcarpathia of the Bridge, and here I should not highlight people, but let me highlight two people. One is Attila Tilki, and the other is István Román, who organized the five points of assistance, which were almost immediately established and achieved in Zahony, Lónya, Barabás, Beregsurány and Tiszabecs. They did a fantastic job, the charities, the people there, the mayors and their helpers, and everyone who brought the help there. And so we set up the BOK hall you mentioned, which served the help of tens of thousands of people, mostly Ukrainians. Here and along the border, we must highlight the great contribution of six large charities, the Catholic Charity, the Red Cross, the Ecumenical Relief Organisation, the Maltese Charity Service, the Reformed and Baptist Charity Services, who have participated in this huge work with professional and helpful volunteer workers and are now participating in it. Thanks to their work, we have helped more than 450,000 people in these places, so help points and the BOK Hall, whether in accommodation or in catering, health care, transportation and many other areas. And let me talk a little bit about numbers, because the opposition, especially DK, likes to lie on this issue, at least to say things that the government doesn't help, doesn't do anything. Nearly a million people have turned around in Hungary and we have helped over a million people. 31,605 asylum seekers have been granted more than 177 thousand temporary residence permits in this country. In the field of public education, more than 4,300 young people are receiving kindergarten or school care today, only a small part of which is Hungarian, most of which are Ukrainian nationalities. In higher education, in addition to dormitory placements, we have given the opportunity and provision to more than 600 students who are not Ukrainian, but who have fled Ukraine, and we are teaching or helping nearly a thousand Ukrainian students now. It should also be added that the Hungarian government is helping the College of Transcarpathia, the College of Beregszász. As you have mentioned, we have made camping of nearly 8,000 Ukrainian children in the summer, using a free so-called solidarity ticket of 845 thousand people, as well as health and social benefits, to the most serious surgery, say, in the field of health. And one of the main features of the programme for the Transcarpathia of the Bridge is the fundraising, which was unprecedented: more than one billion HUF of support was provided by people, companies and businesses. It was fantastic, it was never like this in the life of the Hungarian nation. [[10.40]] In addition, we have been able to provide more than HUF 28 billion in funding in Ukraine, with the leadership of the KKM and the involvement of the charitable organisations, which has meant the delivery of more than 2500 tonnes of goods to Internal Ukraine. And I would therefore ask what the left has done in the meantime, beyond being left out of this cooperation; Szabó Timea, for example, in March, when everyone was doing their job, brought a small grocery store into Parliament instead of, say, taking it to the points of help where people needed to be. In addition, obviously the failed policy and sanctions policy that the EU is pursuing must be avoided as far as possible, and it is our duty and our duty to continue to assist Ukraine in the humanitarian issue and area, but we will continue to say that after we are on the side of peace, we will not carry weapons and soldiers; we will not continue to participate. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] in grants that we see will not be achieved, but we will continue to provide all the help that is needed for the needy, fallen, refugee people. Thank you for your concern. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-09-38	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. The general discussion of the bill on the significance of the Golden Bull of 1222 and the Day of the Golden Bull until closure follows. Presentation by representatives of Máté Kocsis, István Simicskó, Csaba Hende, Imre Vejkey, Illés Boglárka and Judit Varga T/1778. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I now give the floor to Congressman Csaba Hende, Vice-President of the Parliament, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Vice President. You have the floor.
u2022-11-09-39	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Our proposal is not a long line of so-called Memorial Laws. We usually record events of outstanding importance, moments and moments, and the Hungarian Parliament has already recorded its commemoration and respect in commemoration laws that go back centuries. The bill is very short, it consists of only two substantive stages and an entry into force phase. Article 1 The National Assembly holds the memory of the 1222 Golden Bull and the significance of it as part of the Hungarian nation's spiritual heritage in law. , the second paragraph of Article 2 (2) is replaced by the following: The Parliament declares the 24th day of April to be the Day of the Golden Bull. April 24e St. George's Day, and according to tradition and collective memory, on this day was issued the bull with the golden seal, the pendant seal, or royal decree, in today's words, since there was no Parliament at that time, the kings formed the laws, which are crucial to our constitutional identity. Allow me to briefly quote Dr. Tamás Sulyok, President of the Constitutional Court, at a great conference in this House in the Chamber of Felsőházi on 5 October of this year, from the great talk given by the President of the Constitutional Court, really briefly. So, I quote:. The Hungarian Golden Bull is one of Europe's first letters of freedom as the expression of social contracts at the time. The Golden Bull is also an initial and most important document of the Hungarian historical constitution. It is the source of the historical constitution that has evolved organically over the past centuries, and of which another corner stone defining the life of our nation in the present is the Fundamental Law of Hungary, which is the basis of our exchange of letters, an alliance between the past, the present and the Hungarians of the future. A living framework that expresses the will of the nation, the form in which we want to live. In fact, these sentences define the essence of constitutional identity: the framework, the form in which we want to live, says the Fundamental Law, so as we place ourselves in the world, as we see ourselves in the relationship with the people around us, and as we desire public relations in which we have been comfortable and comfortable in the Carpathian Basin for a thousand years. The President of the Constitutional Court then states that the Golden Bull and the entire constitution of history are still alive and in force today, so the President of the Constitutional Court says:. When Hungary's Fundamental Law came into force in 2011, one of the most controversial provisions was Article R, according to which the provisions of the Fundamental Law must be interpreted in accordance with their purpose, the national creed and the achievements of our historical constitution. So the provisions of the Golden Bull, if any, can still serve as a standard for interpretation of the law. This is of great importance, due to this recognition, the heated debate that took place at the time during the debate on the Fundamental Law, some ten years ago, around Article R. Why is it important to stick to our constitutional identity? And then the President of the Constitutional Court says, I quote, "Today, when everything is relativised in both the social and constitutional dimensions, it is important to preserve the foundations of our identity, so that our legal culture does not become rootless. The Golden Bull is the starting point for the development of Hungarian constitutionality, which is itself a symbol of the fact that the exercise of public power cannot be without limits, that the existing social order must be protected, and that the practitioners of power must always account for the nation, but the nation must decide for its own destiny. This is the solid conviction that has determined the struggles of our stormy centuries since the founding of the state of St. Stephen throughout the thousand years. Allow me to address the Golden Bull itself. We talk about it a lot, but perhaps we read too little, we are with it as with King St. Stephen's intelligence, even on a daily basis, as with the Bible, shooting. Allow me to point out the points of the Golden Bull, recalling some of the 31 points, how modern, how current and how relevant it is to this day, and how consistent it is with our constitutional identity, the legal framework in which we enjoy ourselves, the Golden Bull, this 800-year-old wonderful document. ANNEX II King Endre already referred to the most important thing twice in the introductory part, he spoke of the freedoms ordered by King St. Stephen, and later declared that the freedom granted by the holy king was granted to the inhabitants of our country. So you clearly state, clearly, that you are building on the foundations of St. Stephen. This is the idea that, in the last thousand years, when the Hungarian interest governed this country and not the influence of external forces, it was always the solid corner. [[10.50]] In any case, the image of a house built on a rock comes to mind from the Bible that can withstand all storms. After all, let us not forget that just 19 years after the release of the Golden Bull, the Tatar threat came, and yet the Hungarian state was able to rebuild itself in the laws of the Golden Bull and in the laws of St. Stephen, the laws of St. Laszlo and the laws of Kálmán, and to become even stronger. What are these freedoms? What is the most important thing in this document? In point 2, the king states that we and our offspring want them never to be taken prisoner or abused, unless they have been summoned before and convicted in court. This is a crucial point. This is perfectly the same as the Magna Charter of England, one of the most advanced states of that time, issued a few years earlier in 1215. This is the prohibition of deprivation of liberty and any sanctions without judicial procedure. Similarly, equality before the law is a very important principle of law in point 8 when it says that the reverend should judge all the inhabitants of our country without distinction. So everyone has the same law and equal standards of justice. And finally, in the same section, paragraph 28, which states that if a person had been convicted in court, no one of the powerful would be able to protect him. So no one can be arrested without a judge's judgment, everyone is subject to the same law, but anyone who has been convicted cannot be protected from adverse legal consequences. This is an important standard that we must follow today. The point on warfare, point 7, is very important. But if the king were to lead war outside the country, the service providers would not have to go with him, unless he had his money, and after his return, he took war from them. If, on the other hand, an army breaks into the country, they should all go together. Doesn't this look familiar to you from the 12 points of 1848? Get the foreign soldiers away from us and bring the Hungarian soldiers home. And if an enemy comes at us, then we're all obliged to protect our country on the basis of our duty to defend our country. We also need to talk about a valid legal principle that is still alive today. Then there is the 30th point, which states that apart from the reed, the shank, and the king's and queen's courtesan, no one should have two dignitys. So the importance of job accumulation and conflict of interest and its first regulation will be found in the Golden Bull. Finally, and I will be very brief, the most frequently quoted point is 31, the last point containing the right of resistance. In this age, the sovereign, the absolute ruler, the king of Hungary, is surprisingly limiting himself when he says: we also order that if we or any of our successors intend to disobey this provision at any time, i.e. the provisions of the Golden Bull, on the one hand, the present and future bishops, on the other hand, and the other serfs and the country's nobles, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the basis of the permission of our certificate, they are free to oppose us and our successors without the shame stamp of any infidelity. This is the idea that will accompany our freedom struggles, but it will appear and become the basis for passive resistance after the defeat of the 48th Freedom Fight, the resistance to compromise, which eventually led to many good, many blessings, and later to many bad compromises. I brought all these illustrations to encourage everyone to take control of the Golden Bull and read it. I quoted this from this year's 6th issue of the excellent magazine Rubicon in Kornél Soviets. Dear Parliament, I therefore ask that, recognising the crucial importance of the Golden Bull, which was released 800 years ago, in the survival of the Hungarian state and the Hungarian nation, which unfortunately does not coincide, support this proposal and legislate the memory of the Golden Bull and make every year 24 April the Day of the Golden Bull. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-09-40	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to ask Minister Judit Varga, who I welcome to this House, with all due respect, to speak on behalf of the government. [[Dr. Judit Varga: Yes.]] Yeah. Madam Secretary. Here you go.
u2022-11-09-41	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and Gentlemen, The bill before us is not only an outstanding document of the development of Hungarian constitutional law, but I believe that it is also an outstanding document of the development of European constitutional law, so this bill would like to commemorate the 800th anniversary of the issue of this document, and would also like to carry this memory forward in law by declaring 24 April of each year the Day of Remembrance of the Golden Bull. As Congressman Hende said, András' Golden Bull is the defining relic of our history and constitutional identity. It is one of the achievements of our historic constitution, and it is still a valid and mandatory source of interpretation of the Fundamental Law. For us lawyers, this is a very important cornerstone, a very important fit point, a point of alignment. When I asked Varga Zs. András, President of the Curia, how he would express the constitutional identity as a former constitutional judge, said that we need to go back to our historical events and documents, and even the 150-year-old Turkish occupation is part of the constitutional identity, as this is where we can derive our constant desire for freedom. Therefore, the Golden Bull is also a rare treasure that is a deposit of our spiritual, political, and legal efforts. We are well aware, lawyers, that the Constitutional Court has stated that the constitutional identity of Hungary is based on constitutional values, which are the achievements of our historic constitution, on which the Fundamental Law and its entire Hungarian legal system are based. Therefore, it can be said that Hungarian public thinking can be described as historical today, which is more than anything else expressed in the preamble to the Fundamental Law, that we Hungarians respect the achievements of our historic constitution and the Holy Crown, which embodies the constitutional continuity of Hungary and the unity of the nation. We believe that protecting our identity, rooted in our historical constitution, is the fundamental duty of the state, our Fundamental Law, the basis of our legal order, an alliance between the past, the present and the Hungarians of the future. A living framework that expresses the will of the nation, the form in which we want to live. These sentences are incredibly powerful, and they are very helpful to us when we defend the sovereignty of the Hungarian nation in Brussels, behind the. I believe that the Golden Bull is the basis and reference point for our constitutional development, which for centuries has established and ensured the living source of Hungarian legal thinking, encouraged the search for dialogue and peaceful agreement, and committed its successors to the continuous strengthening and preservation of the nation's independence and freedoms. The Golden Bull is also a source of self - respect that confirms that we are worthy of the heritage of our fathers as well as of respect for others. It also reminds us, however, that we do not suffer, but we also write the history of Europe ourselves. [[11.00]] Ladies and gentlemen, ANNEX II András' reign, like all historical eras, had its own challenges, its own crises. The answers to these challenges are born in order and are still born today, and there is a time when a solution that goes beyond itself contributes to the constitutional development of a nation and to the further deepening of its identity. It was like this on the day of St. George 800 years ago, on April 24th, I quote: in the name of the Holy Trinity and the undivided unity, András, by the grace of God, by Hungary, Dalmatia, Croatia, Rama, Serbia, Halics and Lodomeria, the Golden Bull of Székesfehérvár, published in Csúcs-hegy. ANNEX II András' new arrangement, his estate policy, his economic system building on incomes, and his personnel policy, which prioritised Meranians, gave rise to dissatisfaction in the country, and the differences between the various noble interest groups were sharpened. So the Golden Bull was born to solve a political crisis that aimed at a comprehensive settlement of the relationship between the king and his subjects, with strong guarantees. As my fellow Member said, for the first time he fixed the privileges of the Hungarian nobility, the rights of the barons and the service providers. Its significance lies, among others, in the fact that this is the first decree with a gold pendant seal that contained not only private privileges but also requirements for whole communities. The first law in which the ruler contributes to the limitation of his rights between the treaty, the royal power and the country is thus said. However, it is also a significant age document, as it is an example of the fact that, in the first centuries of the Hungarian state's existence, it has worked in harmony with other states of Christian Europe in most areas of life, and has even preceded most of them in terms of development of law, principles of freedom and political innovation. These words ring particularly well in today's great rule of law legend. The Hungarian and international significance of the Golden Bull is without doubt, as Hungarian and foreign law scientists and law historians often compare it to the Magna Charter Libertatum, which was born just seven years earlier. Two weeks ago, I was on an official visit to the United States, and when it was shown in the Capitol that the gift of the United Kingdom was an authentic copy of the Magna Charter Libertatum, I threw it in such a way that, by the way, seven years later, we had a similar one in Hungary. It was a great shock because, thanks to the media overweight spread today, generally through liberal progression, few suspect that at the same time, at the same time, the first age document of the rule of law was born in Central Europe, Hungary. Although the original of the Golden Bull is likely to be found in its physical reality, its ideal reality has been found. It is there in the Hungarians' love of freedom, incorporated into the DNA of our nation's constitutional identity. The Golden Bull as the first important document can be traced back to several legal institutions now known, such as the Curia, the formation of Parliament, constitutional guarantees of prior detention, the right to judicial redress, monetary policy or the regulation of military engagement. Although these are modern-sounding legal definitions and terms, they come from 800 years ago. I particularly consider the importance of the resistance clause, the ius reistendit, which has become an integral part of Hungarian public thinking. I am thinking here that although we have been defeated on several occasions in the fights of freedom, the persistent resistance of the Hungarians to tyranny has always triumphed. During the centuries of the Middle Ages, several rulers have strengthened the Golden Bull, whose opposition clause has increasingly expressed that a ruler who violates the laws of the country can be confronted without the sin of infidelity. The right to take action against tyrannical power is important, since Article C (2) of the Fundamental Law also states that no one's activities may be directed towards the violent acquisition or exercise of power or the exclusive possession of it; against such efforts, everyone is legally entitled and obliged to act. I also stress that the Golden Bull is the Kingdom of the Arpad II. It is also a summary of the experiences of the state's organisation until the reign of András, and it has later created historical images of civil private property and the legal institution of popular sovereignty by providing noble ownership and the right of resistance. So we can also say that the idea of the Golden Bull can also be seen in some respects as an historical history of modern democracy. Therefore, it is important for future Hungarian generations to be a document recognised by the National Assembly in law, and this should be the Day of the Golden Bull, April 24. Dear House, The Golden Bull II. During Andrew's time, he answered the eternal and great questions of freedom, and in recent decades he became an unavoidable reference point in Hungarian public and constitutional thinking. The question arises when it would be more timely to remember the Golden Bull than today, when we have to fight to defend and respect Hungary's national sovereignty, every day to fight against global plans threatening the interests of our country. Today, when everything is relativised, it is important to preserve the foundations of our identity. We can be proud of the decisions of our predecessors, for the Golden Bull reminds us of our own responsibility. The sovereignty struggles mentioned above are not only political but also legal. National identity is of particular importance to us, and therefore we must defend Hungary's constitutional governance against all external influences. (The President's seat is Dóra Dúró, Vice-President of the Parliament.) It is a symbolic phenomenon that constitutional judges wear the medal of the Golden Bull when making decisions in public, since the Golden Bull is a symbol that it is only home where there is a right; that the exercise of public authority cannot be without limits, that the existing social order must be protected, and that the practitioners of power must always account for the nation. This is particularly important when we are often faced with efforts to exercise power over the governments responsible for their nation, which are relativising the importance of nation states around the world. I would also like to emphasise that Hungary stands for the rule of law and European values, as evidenced by the placement of the copy of the Golden Bull in the Council of Europe building. ANNEX II András's decree is proof that for Hungary statehood and the rule of law began hundreds of years ago, and evidence that our country has been a committed shaper of European law development for centuries. Ladies and Gentlemen, I believe that, looking back from the perspective of eight centuries, we can say that today the values that we Hungarians can think about our own destiny and mission have been crystallized. In the century, the nation, sovereignty, Christian freedom, and standing up for them, if necessary, taking on conflicts. In order to defend our national freedom, it is essential to strengthen and maintain our capacity for spiritual self-determination. As the Member pointed out, according to Article R of the Fundamental Law, the provisions of the Fundamental Law must be interpreted in accordance with their objectives, the national creed and the achievements of our historical constitution. It may seem anachronistic if we want to interpret a past moment in Hungarian constitutional history in today's social context. However, I think that Article R of the Fundamental Law does not primarily bring past events into our present, but rather seeks to keep the experience of the past a mirror before us, so that we can learn from past mistakes and, on the other hand, to recognise and make our historical experiences a part of our present. I could also say that what our ancestors thought was true, we too must be able to hold true. Ladies and gentlemen, ANNEX II András's decree issued in 1222 is a corner stone, which thus decisively defined the direction of the Hungarian constitutional development that still operates today. Historians are looking for an answer as to the importance of issuing this medieval diploma at that age; it is important for lawyers to clarify how far away it has affected, what relevance it may have for our interpretation of the Constitution today. For politics, however, based on the results and experiences of these two disciplines, it can be useful to examine how the example of our ancestors can help us solve our current problems. The Golden Bull is proof of the Hungarians' historic commitment to freedom and legality, and at the same time stands up for the interests of our country. It is therefore our duty to respect the achievements of our historic constitution and to protect our inherent identity. [[11.10]] When we commemorate this cornerstone, we show our respect not only for our past but also for the greats of our nation that determine the past. We must make the decisions that determine our day in the knowledge that we are setting the course for future generations today. This noble purpose is properly served by the bill before us, which is supported by the government. That is why I also ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-11-09-42	Welcome, fellow Members. The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, Mrs Boglárka Illés, who indicated in advance that she would speak about the pulpit. [[Buttercup Elijah goes up to the pulpit.]] I therefore give the floor to the congresswoman in a 30-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2022-11-09-43	By the grace of God! Madam President, Dear Parliament, Dear Guests, Visitors! Although the original Golden Bull can no longer be viewed on which it was written, it did not survive, but we know it later due to its reconfirmation and reconstruction. His first lines sound like this:.. In the name of the Trinity and Undivided Unity. Andrew, by the grace of God. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, About two centuries after the founding of the state, in the spirit of Christianity, but I could also say that just two centuries after that, as Christianity appears in the text, it had at least as much impact on the age, on social changes as it was before the coronation of St. Stephen's king, to arrive in the Carpathian Basin, to settle down and to establish a state, and then to consolidate it, the power of the Hungarian people, their spirit of freedom and respect for authority, instead of historical parallels, is unique, because in the sea of peoples coming from the east, we alone proved to Europe that we can organize ourselves both in its geographical capacities and in the Carpathian Basin of invaluable value in its geopolitical significance, and, if necessary, we can defend ourselves. We Hungarians came as independent, equal, free people. These are the foundations that gave us not only strength, but on which we could build and build. Dear Parliament, When remembering a historic age, to this day to be precise, a corner stone, it may be worth considering, instead of abandoning an easily memorable year, what kind of challenge it might have answered when it was born and what would it have to do with the response of that age to that particular challenge if it could still be an impactive response to this day. At the same time, can we ask: Today, or even if it is beyond that age, can it hide the answer that looks to the future? If I didn't have the answer, I probably wouldn't be standing here. But with 800 years of foundation, I can explain what it can mean for us today, how it connects the Hungarians of the past, the present and the future. Dear Parliament, When we speak of nobles, nobles, many may think of mighty men, barons, or, where appropriate, even reverends. The origin of the word, or perhaps rather the root of the word, is reduced, although the power of a consensual alliance can be turned into a battle-hardened argument for strong genders, a nobility for strong knowledge, a nation forged in the thousands of degrees Celsius of yeses and sexes. Here we are, and we can say they did and they do. Thus, the word "noble" is both stand-up and resistance. Stand up for our values that feed our roots, for those who serve our community, for the freedom of our children's future, and resistance to both domestic and foreign forces that deprive us of our property, who sell our country's goods, who want to destroy our freedom. This is the composition of the noble Hungarian blood, the worthy Hungarian nobility. I ask the question: a wise Hungarian ruler's first-ranking act of history could lead the way to society through standing up, resistance or much more by realization, at the discretion that the established nobility could have been guided by dynasty-perceived customs, or privileges gained through the service of intellectual achievement and country, perhaps we could also say that the present, then the servicers, and later citizenship. Experience that the one-way action of the nobility beyond self-preservation, not merely to gain economic advantage, can only be maintained for a limited period of time in place of dispersal on the basis of individual interests. Joint government organisation along the recognition of common values and interests is responsible, and responsibility can be created through the community. So we free Hungarians, as at the time, by birth, have the opportunity to become worthy and noble members of the Hungarian nation through our spiritual achievement, our persistent diligence and the expansion of our knowledge. But our descendants, children and grandchildren can only stay, they can be Hungarians from birth, free Hungarians, if we strengthen, preserve or reorganize the community of responsibility at all ages. Dear Parliament, ANNEX II András realized that the limit of power was also a guarantee of its strength, and the House of Árpád 400 years ago is proof of this, that in favor of nobles, in clear guidance given to them, in taking responsibility in balance with benefits, and in the service of those entrusted with the grace of God, the consolidation of unity, the acquisition, the sanding of the ability to maintain independence, and, if and when necessary, the deployment and application of others. For if we swear on the laws of our ancestors, origins, languages, history and place of birth, which are jointly formed and laid down by the intervention of those who make up the rules we choose, we will observe and enforce it, if those entrusted with guarding the assets of the Hungarian nation do not sell it, they will not give it into foreign hands, but will increase it if they allow the possibilities not to sink in the accumulation of positions, but to build a path for the strengthening of responsibility for generations, it will hold, it will last, it will last for thousands of years. In the Golden Bull, it is stated that the limit of enforcement is justice, that it is worth serving honor, acquiring goods and increasing them for generations, because it must be protected that the loss of the Hungarian provision over goods, things and assets is not merely a loss of income, but an unacceptable loss of military and administrative soil. And the task isn't loss of space, it's surveillance, it's gaining ground where it can be. Dear Parliament, We can also exercise noble action, i.e. standing up and resistance, during today's election and voting. We can stand by what we agree with and resist what makes us rebel. For more than 12 years in a row, we have been authorized by several elections, in April more than three million people, recognising the work of the government for our sovereignty, even confirming that we Hungarians together can form an era, for which we have created legal frameworks, and the foundations of which we can find in the Hungarian historical constitution. [[11.20]] As in the present case, our ancestors trained him, laid him, certified him with Gold Bull. This is what we have sworn to do, in which spirit we do our daily work, even if the shadow government of the left side, its shadow ministers and all those who supported the candidates of the rainbow coalition have repeatedly said: the law of our country is, according to them, illegitimate. Even if the illegal and illegal sign comes from Ferenc Gyurcsány who was able to turn against his own people on the 50th anniversary of 56. Even if Ferenc Gyurcsány's marionette puppet, the mayor of the capital's hyperpassive mayor, campaigned in 2021 that if he was elected Prime Minister, he would not swear on the Fundamental Law or even repeal it. Even if the same idea was put forward by Péter Márki-Zay or his candidate for President of the Republic, Péter Róna. Even then, even more so, because the Hungarian people gave us the authority to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, We have the right to ask: if the voters had not chosen the national government on 3 April, would the left now have committed a constitutional coup by deciding on two-thirds of the laws by a half majority? We firmly believe that we need to rely on mutual understanding, unity and stability, while dealing with the current difficulties. After all, after all, we have left behind a world epidemic of millions of lives that has rocked economies, and a war has started in our neighborhood. The Hungarian families want security and peace, which Brussels' faulty sanctions seem not to be able to guarantee, and they are even pushing Europe into a serious energy and economic crisis. And although all the data for the left proves this, they are in favour of sanctions, but they are still in favour of measures based on misconception in Brussels. With their own voice, they are not shaping the Hungarian representation, but rather the Brussels mouthpiece. Ladies and gentlemen, We cannot allow sanctions to destroy Europe's economy and to cover with false disputes the multitude of real problems, we must protect what we have achieved, what we have worked for, what our parents, grandparents and ancestors have sacrificed for. They sacrificed us to be here, organized Hungarians into a state, and created the legal basis for our cooperation; they created a way for us to live in the Carpathian Basin for a long time, here and there for a thousand years. As Minister said, "What is valid and mandatory, I think must be respectful and protected." He is reverend because he is an example to us and must be protected for the next thousand years to strengthen our roots with God's help. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, For the above reasons, I ask my fellow Members who know the past and bear responsibility for the future to support the T/1778 on the significance of the Golden Bull of 1222 and the Day of the Golden Bull in front of us. The Fidesz faction supports this proposal. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-09-44	We now have the lead speaker of the Democratic Coalition Group, Zsolt Gréczy. I give you the floor, please.
u2022-11-09-45	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear House, I originally planned that there would be a kind of rise in this debate today. Csaba Hende gave a dignified speech, highlighting the importance of the continuity of the Golden Bull, and I myself had planned to encode my contribution to this, but Boglárka Elijah made sure that I was obliged to recode my message and put my text into an actual political theme. For the Democratic Coalition, Hungarian tradition, respect for national memory is of particular importance, and it doesn't change that Fidesz always thought that the unit of national consciousness or patriotism is a Fidesz, I wonder which Fidesz we're talking about, since we're talking about nation and historical traditions. The one who, hearing the word Trianon, left Parliament in 1990 as a single party or, in 2001, said to the Venice Commission by his foreign minister that they would not introduce dual citizenship, and so on. So we should always adjust our patriotism to the current Fidesz, fortunately, the Democratic Coalition is not affected in any way. The Golden Bull is, of course, an extremely important, outstanding legal creation of Hungarian law and is important for national tradition and respect for national law, and unfortunately, there are no copies of it, all seven lost in the bloody storm of time, but it is certainly indicated, and the comparison with the Magna Charter 1215 indicates that Hungary was still paying attention to the legal perception of the surrounding world, the messages of political and historical significance at that time. It's no different now. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the point of the Magna Charter, which is about not taking the Hungarian soldiers out of the country to fight in foreign territory, but if the country was attacked, then everyone should fight for the country, if the historic right had paid a little attention to the proposal or law of the Magna Charter or the Golden Bull at the outbreak of the First and Second World Wars, we might have saved Trianon, for example, as well as the Don-Kanyar. But the historical right didn't do that, but sent the Hungarian soldiers to war, unfortunately. There was also the expression of what we consider to be illegal constitutions. For example, we regard it as illegal constitutionalism if there is no social debate about a new Fundamental Law or Constitution, because it has not been here in the last 12 years. Suddenly, someone on his laptop wrote a constitution like this, and you voted for it in two minutes without having any social debate about it in the country. Here I note that there was a two-thirds majority of another government before you, even more than you. This was the Horn government between 1994 and 98. It was said then that they would create a new constitution for the country, but, for example, at that time, Fidesz did not support it, and even though the Horn government could have made a constitution with two thirds of it, which they did not, because they took into account the opinion of the 7 percent Fidesz on this matter, so they did not create a new constitution. This moderation would have been necessary for you too, in the event that the opposition parties' proposals had at least been heard in such a national round table debate. How sanctions come here, I didn't really understand the Golden Bull, but it is certain that Hungary is currently not considered a rule of law by the European Union, or by our allies, as it is not considered a rule of law, because this is, among other things, the basis for not giving EU money. We see here in the last few weeks and in the next few weeks' legislative periods that more and more initiatives are coming from the government that are making such amendments in our legal system. [[11.30]] Right now, there's a new bill for the judiciary. So it seems that constitutional problems are not only a problem within Hungary, but also among our allies. This is why, among other things, Hungary is completely isolated in the European Union because Hungary is not considered a rule of law. Madam Secretary, you have just left the meeting room; I would have said to him that a kind of liberal discourse does not recognise the Golden Bull in Hungary, and I would like to say that even in the wildest 50s the Golden Bull was in the history book, so there was never such a Hungarian XX. In the century, even at the most scandalous or harsh times, when the Golden Bull would not have received the respect it deserves in the Hungarian history books. The Democratic Coalition can support the Golden Bull and, of course, make a memorial day about it. It's just a technical suggestion on my part that if this had been submitted a year ago, it would have been the first day of memory in 2022, but it's really just a technical observation, and it wouldn't have been on the 801st anniversary in 2023. Moreover, Hungarian law continuity and Hungarian law memory will always mention the Golden Bull with great respect, as long as there is Hungarian legislation in this House. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2022-11-09-46	Congressman Imre Vejkey, lead speaker of the KDNP. I give you the floor, please.
u2022-11-09-47	Madam President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the bill before us is to strengthen and serve the fundamental Hungarian national interest, so that the 1222 Golden Bull will proclaim our constitutional identity to the national memory by law. Ladies and Gentlemen, On the occasion of the 800th anniversary of the Golden Bull, it is important to say that the most important features of the Hungarian nation are the love of constitutionality. That's why it's not a coincidence that the II. The Golden Bull, issued by King Andrew in 1222 rivals the Magna Charter almost at the same time. The Golden Bull lays down principles of law which, to this day, are one of the most fundamental truths of a rule of law. The principle of one and the same freedom ensured equality between free country dwellers, while the right of resistance gives the same persons the opportunity to resist a ruler who violates the historic constitution. The 800-year-old Golden Bull is not only of historical significance, but also a law that still exists on the basis of our Fundamental Law that allows us to enforce our historic constitution through interpretation of the law. The iconic lines of the National Creed in the Fundamental Law state that we respect the achievements of our historic constitution and the Holy Crown, which embodies the constitutional state continuity of Hungary and the unity of the nation. We believe that defending our identity, which is rooted in our historical constitution, is a fundamental duty of the state. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Article R (3), incorporated into the Fundamental Law, states that the provisions of the Fundamental Law must be interpreted in accordance with their purpose, the national creed and the achievements of our historical constitution. This is the constitutional faith of our nation. And the spiritual heritage of our historic constitution is woven through our Fundamental Law. Therefore, if we are to be Hungarian citizens worthy of our ancestors, we must retain the guiding spiritual power of our historic constitution, that is, our national and Christian values. We must say that we are only on the right track if our rights and obligations flow from the organic development of our historic constitution. Ladies and Gentlemen, Remember, there were times when this organic constitutional development forced our country to be torn apart. Law, which was the Hungarian translation and adaptation of Stalin's constitution, born in the shadow of Soviet bayonets. Although the communist constitution of 1949 had undergone significant changes after the change of regime, its inspiration did not change at all. During its duration, we felt as if we were in a castle without a defense. This is what the left wants to restore today, which is what he wants to restore today, in place of the Easter Fundamental Law, and remember, we had to wait almost 60 years for our country to return to its organic constitutional development. This moment happened specifically on 25 April 2011 by our so-called Easter Fundamental Law. Ladies and Gentlemen, We just have to say that fact again. We have to say it because for many, unfortunately, this fact is not self-evident. I am convinced that our most important legacy is the Christian root from which the Hungarian state grew a thousand years ago. Therefore, our Easter Fundamental Law begins with our national prayer, the first line of the Hungarian anthem, that is to say, God, bless the Hungarian. And our Fundamental Law then states in the National Creed: "We do not acknowledge the suspension of our historical constitution due to alien occupations, , we do not recognize the communist constitution of 1949, because it was the basis of a tyrannical rule, so we declare its nullity. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, This means that Hungary will again defend the thousand-year-old country and its citizens in the sky, which was resurrected by its Easter Fundamental Law in 2011. Ladies and Gentlemen, As a historical fact, while Hungary's found itself organically again under the 2011 Fundamental Law, half of the world itself, claiming to be more advanced, has turned Europe's spiritual scene into a ruin field, violently distorting national Christian values. This has resulted in the main ideology of today's world, which calls itself advanced, becoming anti - nationalism and anti - Christianism. It's sad, but the fact is that Paul Valéry's words only find closed ears in the West. A quote from him is: "Europe is where the names of Eucleides and Archimedes, Aristotle and Plato, Traianus and Vergilius, Moses and Saint Paul have meaning and influence. The only thing you can find is closed ears. He only finds his ears closed because the West gave up everything and began to live by a different moral system. The other moral values of the West remind me today of Sodom and Gomorrah, that is to say, self-conceivedness and moral depravity. This is specific. it means that, as a result of its modernization, the West has undergone a genuine debauchery and is now in the process of denying its own roots, Christianity, even as a historical fact, it is not willing to include it in the European Statute. [[11.40]] Thus, Europe's once beautiful features are not only becoming more hidden, but are becoming increasingly vanishing, as if Europe had entered the declining era of the Roman Empire. The question is why they do not see the price on their necks; why it pains them to say that Christianity has established the basis for our common European civilisation, has actually created human rights, and has strengthened the identity of each people, while respecting national differences. What's with the newbie barbarism? Ladies and Gentlemen, The founding fathers of the European Union, Schuman, De Gasperi and Adenauer, said that Europe would be either Christian or not. It makes me wonder why this basic sentence seems to have a turn in the latter. The fundamental question arises as to what happened to the world and Europe in it, why it lost its Christian system of values. The answer is somewhere that Europe now wants to live well and not wisely. What does this "good living" mean? On the one hand, that Europe no longer wants to live within the framework of Jewish-Christian organic development, but rejecting it only on the basis of the free values it has invented. On the other hand, he wants the other person to stop mattering, only money and power. Europeans have already forgotten the basic space and time coordinates that define the world. Basic space and time coordinates: they forgot that the year was counted from the birth of our Lord, that is, they forgot that 2022 means that Jesus Christ was born 2022 years ago. They also forgot that because of the roundness of the Earth, we need a point, a point of reference, compared to which we can talk about the East and the West. And this point of reference is the place of Jesus Christ's crucifixion and a third day's resurrection, Jerusalem. All this means that if we forget that the Lord is the benchmark for our lives, objective morality and justice will become subjective, that is, falling from the indisputable level to the debatable, essentially to the level of preferences. This is what happened to Europe that once saw better days. Europe has come to the point that morality and justice have become completely subjective, and original Christian values are being tromped day by day for background power. Europe has come to the point where they want to replace Christianity with a global, new world order, a world order that forcefully turns the value system of society and its entire structure out of its normal way. Ladies and Gentlemen, Remember, their concept of freedom, equality and fraternity is a hell of a twist for Jewish-Christian values. It's a hell of a turn-up because freedom means rebellion against divine laws for them. Hell of a twist, because equality for them means putting all of us to the lowest level, they want to suppress us from above with their deviant ideology. Hell of a turnaround, because brotherhood means to them that we are not brothers in the Lord, but in our misery caused by them. The past? Well, they want the past completely wiped out, Christian and national. And they want to relativity our values so that we cannot distinguish good from evil, or desire virtue. Where does this absurd narrative lead? To mock man, and ultimately to a modern-day Nineveh. Ladies and Gentlemen, Remember: Europe, though financially strong, is weak. He is weak, because his liberal patrons make false religion out of universal human rights, proud that they are closer to human freedom than ever before. However, this false freedom, in which sin is celebrated as a moral achievement, is celebrated as a new human right. From Western morality, weeding out Christian values has already led us today to deny the fact that life does not begin with birth, but with conception. They also deny the fact that marriage can only happen between a man and a woman. And they deny that the mother is a woman and the father is a man. They represent a culture of death against the culture of life, and they do not even shy away from leaving their children unprotected. This attitude can be clearly seen there, how they relate to pedophile criminals and how they relate to countries such as Hungary, which protects their families and protects their children. They are the ones who accuse us of unjust rule of law and speech and even punish us for standing up for our families and children because we stand for our Christian values. Remember, the West may be rich, but its existence is at the end of persecution for those who stand up for its Christian values. Let's be brave, stand up for our national-Christian values. The KDNP parliamentary faction supports T/1778 on the significance of the Golden Bull of 1222 and the Day of the Golden Bull. Bill No. 1. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-09-48	The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, Mr Zoltán Sas, is next. Here you go.
u2022-11-09-49	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear fellow Members, Dear House, When I was preparing for today's agenda, I was a little confident that we would be in a festive mood for this debate today, and that we could have this debate without conflicting our political interests and values, because we wish to remember a common historical event that we all have, and we can be grateful for, and if we had not been in hand, but perhaps it would have been more important if we had achieved the common goal of remembering. Unfortunately, there are no miracles, not even in this beautiful building. However, I would like to express our position specifically on the Golden Bull and its events. The Golden Bull is a Hungarian historical event about which our compatriots, who are less interested in our history, are less susceptible to it, they know about it, they have heard about it, a writing that was extremely forward-looking at their age, the first known written basis for our constitutional development. Of course, there are points over 800 years that could be discussed, but that is the job of historians. It is not our duty, our duty to remember, and our opportunity to be proud. Because we can indeed be proud to talk about a written evidence of Hungarian statehood written at a time when Europeans were still continents unknown on our planet, and in the then Hungarian kingdom there were minds living, creating and directing the day-to-day life of the kingdom, who laid the foundations for constitutional development in writing and showed unprecedented foresight. Our ancestors could be proud of the Golden Bull, and evidence of this is the monument that was erected in Székesfehérvár in 1922 at the site of the publication of the Golden Bull. Unfortunately, this first monument was damaged during the battles of World War II. From 1970 until the end of November 1989 there was a Soviet T-34 tank, which is an interesting approach to the historic site and the first written memorial site that established the Hungarian constitutional values, but we lived in different times. [[11.50]] The new Golden Bull monument was placed in its place in 1990, in the Peaky Mountain. Dear fellow Members, I am convinced that important events that are important to the Hungarian nation must be remembered, as this is our duty from our history. The Golden Bull was announced on April 24th, according to our knowledge. This day is linked to many things, the Day of St George Dragon Slayer, the Day of the Police and the Plan discussed will be the Memorial Day of the Golden Bull from next year. Of course, one day there will be more than one memory, whether it is secular or even ecclesiastical. If it were church holidays and 24e, it would be good, honourable fellow Members, if families could prepare for the holy feast in a manner worthy of the day of December 24th, Christmas Eve, and we declared that day a public holiday, so that we could also ensure preparations for peaceful celebrations of families in this way. But turning back to the presentation, the Golden Bull is a common, defining memory that can be remembered as a day of remembrance, so the Jobbik faction will support the proposal. Thank you so much for listening.
u2022-11-09-50	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We now have further speeches from our representatives. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mátrai of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2022-11-09-51	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, So far, it has been no secret that civil governance is based on respect for traditions. He regards the historical efforts of the survival of Hungarians with far-reaching respect. One of the age documents of these efforts is the Golden Bull, one of the great public works of our thousand-year past, a tradition that has survived ages and generations by far. The Hungarian public-law system was able to create an arrangement that provided a pattern of power exercise, a common defence of Hungary and Hungary 800 years ago. In Hungarian history, the traditions of public law were integrated into one another, the legal institutions that served the survival of the Hungarian people were gradually formed and developed. The strength of tradition is this public-law framework agreed by public agreement, in order to ensure the survival of the Hungarian people. Such a written source is the Golden Bull, which in modern times is called the Constitution. The president of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences considered the Golden Bull to be a social contract that required both the subjects and the rulers. Ferenc Deák's position on the Hungarian version of this historic constitution is still valid:. Our Constitution is a historic constitution. It was not made at the same time, but developed from the life of the nation, which is why it evolves according to the evolution of the nation's life after it has solidified for centuries. We took the works of centuries from our ancestors, and it is our duty to give them to posterity in a constant way. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, The Golden Bull laid the foundations for state authority and a public order. ANNEX II In the words of King Andrew of Hungary, this is the reconstruction of our country, which also serves as a guide for the generations after us. He modernized his legal system at the late Arpads, and laid the legal foundations of the order society, regulating privileges and duties for centuries. The Hungarian kings could not ignore this diploma, their point of reference and reference were often directed at it, as the common nobility often demanded respect for the spirit of the Golden Bull in its own defense. In their vow of crowning, all Hungarian kings vowed to observe the legal provisions of the diploma. The President of the Parliament, László Kövér, who initiated the introduction of the Golden Bull into the law, said: "The importance of the Golden Bull will also be fulfilled by the fact that for centuries he has established and ensured the living source of Hungarian legal thinking, encouraged the search for dialogue and peaceful agreement, and obliged the successors to strengthen the nation's independence and freedoms. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, The essence of the diploma was the sharing of resources between the ruler and other representatives of the State Organisation. It established a number of privileges, such as the protection of free-owners, a public guarantee for the protection of the state order. He said that estates should not be donated to persons outside the country, as well as the ban on the accumulation of royal positions, the resistance clause or the twice a year national assembly in the presence of the king. These were the law days. He prescribed the annual holding of the days of law-seeing, which is one of the first steps on the way to the Parliaments. There is no successful state building in history that has no regard for the values of the past, or if it acted with such intent as the expansion of the communist idea, it has now failed. Those who want to deny the reality of their historical past in the present, either do not know the role of history in today's life or do not want to acknowledge it. The Golden Bull is still among us today. An almost invisible alignment point in nation building, joint decision-making, a division of responsibilities and the protection of the country's public authority. The memory of the Golden Bull corresponds to the deepest traditions of Hungarian social building, the source of our survival, so we rightly put its memory at the heart of the legal traditions. Its timeliness is given to the Golden Bull by the fact that, in a historical analogy from the present, Hungary has also concluded a treaty for cooperation with the European Union, and certain institutions of the Union are ready to terminate this treaty for their own self-interest. The credibility of the word, the validity of the agreement in the Hungarian legal system has been symbolically protected by the resistance clause for 800 years in the event of any unilaterally violated agreement. The Golden Bull gave moral and moral guidance that was a shining polar star of the leaders responsible for the fate of the country in public thinking. With this in mind, we remember the outstanding age document of the development of Hungarian constitutional law, the 800th anniversary of the issue of the Golden Bull, and in recognition of its importance, the memory of this is recorded in law. Ladies and gentlemen, Day 24 April of each year is declared the Day of the Golden Bull, honoring the validity of the Public Document of the Ancients confirming our identity to this day. I would ask the honourable Members to adopt and support this age document for the survival of the Hungarian people and the bill that wants to record it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-11-09-52	It is now coming from the Jobbik Group, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2022-11-09-53	[[It's a loudspeaker error.]] Madam President, Dear House, I made sure I didn't ruin the title like the last one... [[Intercoms: We can't hear you! Microphone!]] I'll wait a few seconds until the technical problems are resolved. [[They put a portable microphone in front of the speaker.]]
u2022-11-09-54	I'm going to ask you to restore Congressman's time.
u2022-11-09-55	Thank you so much for your help. Madam President, Dear House, I have indicated that I have watched the same way that I have not spoiled your title as I have spoken before me, because I have prepared for this day, that there will be a moment of grace in this House. By the way, the introduction of Csaba Hende and perhaps even the speech of Minister allowed for this, so I felt that this moment of grace could come about. If I had been asked to join the presentation, I would have been happy to join it, and, of course, I support what is written in front of us on paper with a short, rabbit's tail sentence, but the extension of this interpretation is all the more important. [[12.00]] Allow me to bring a personal thread into this. Since the first half of the nineties, I have been a lover and fan of Hungarian history and, by the way, of ancient history, and many times in the second half of that decade we have already shown, talked, participated in lectures on these topics, and we have also talked many times about the amazing symbolic importance of the Golden Bull over 800 years. There were times when the political community of Fidesz was connected to the Liberal International. There were other historical interpretations. Allow me to feel a little confirmation that now perhaps the majority of Parliament is already in possession of the very important national thinking world that underpins the historical continuity of Hungary, on which we could not have said the same 15 years ago. There were very few of us who at least tried to understand the importance of this, as the importance of the Golden Bull lies in the fact that it is an essential element of an organic Hungarian state development. So not once something carved into stone, which could not be moved in the centuries to come, but could be built on by the additional, very important, positive elements of public law, which, overall, may be known as a historical or historical constitution, although the two concepts are not the same at all, and I very much support the fact that this is often brought to the attention. At the same time, we see that much more points of dispute have been drawn between us regarding the Fundamental Law, and I think it is important to clarify them. In relation to the Basic Law, let alone, I particularly welcome the fact that the Hungarian Constitution of History tried not only to place public thinking, but also the whole set-up, and I also welcome the fact that the Holy Crown doctrine and its mystery could appear in this at least at the level of reference. That's never been the problem for us good guys. At the fundamental level, we were at least as disturbed by what was not included in it as a practical example, the clarification of the right to housing, in addition to the representation of an ambition, or the clarification of the circumstances of the right to work. Rather, we were disturbed by the fact that this was developed without meaningful social involvement. I do not dispute that, by the way, excellent lawyers have worked in this and that they should be involved in the National Creed, so be a man who tries to get involved in such fundamentals. I wouldn't take the liberty of doing that, and I wouldn't stick to it. But it is certain that whether it was a ratification referendum or a different legitimizing instrument, it would have helped us not to continue the debate now, more than ten years later, on what is historical and well founded in relation to the Fundamental Law, what a party has put in it. So it could have been clarified then, and I think that the creation of legislation based on it and at a lower level in the hierarchy of legal sources would have been considerably simpler if we had clarified that. At the same time, there is one point to be clarified in relation to the planned speech, because you have mentioned it in today's debate. I wasn't about to analyze the politicians' contributions to the previous election campaign, but rather to events a little older than 800 years ago. I would like to make it clear that I am not a fan of the idea, where appropriate, of trying to amend two-thirds laws and laws by 50 percent plus one. So I think it is very important that whatever the Fundamental Law is, there should be a comprehensive curve of legislation and legislation. So I have a lot of criticism of you, too, and against your justifications in particular, but here it is worth drawing a sharp line. In any case, I am in favour of the solution of the rule of law, with regard to a possible change of government or the implementation of a political programme. I therefore reject their generalising criticism of the opposition as a whole, which has made statements which, by the way, do not stand up for the opposition as a whole. Article R of the Fundamental Law was also mentioned today. I am very pleased that this historical record has been included, and I am also pleased that you have mentioned the behaviour of the European Union perhaps today. Allow me to make so many personal remarks here, too, that when some Balliberal Members actively contribute to the drafting of criticisms and reports that condemn Hungary, I have a bad feeling because I have basically sworn to represent my country, and I find it difficult to imagine that I will be involved in a process that makes things difficult for my country. If there's any legitimate criticism, I'm on the side of trying to play football at home in the internal political space. It is very difficult for you, it is very, very difficult many times, because if we think only of our criticisms of corruption, then obviously you will not be the ones to accept it. So there is a place, let's say, for a European Public Prosecutor's Office, but it doesn't matter how and how a Hungarian MEP there actively contributes to the condemnation or not, we agree. However, what I can no longer agree with you is the process of joining the European Union, the preparation of it, because if we took seriously the warnings of the Golden Bull, if we took seriously the blessings and physical pictures of the organically developing Hungarian constitutional history, but we also take seriously, thinking about a broader legal dimension, what these words, carved into stone, suggest, would not have happened in the European Union accession process. Sovereignty is extremely important. I fully agree with the sentence that the nation must decide its own fates, and there can be no debate, there cannot be compassion in this, if there is an external intervention intention. That is why I did not understand that when you negotiated half the conditions for accession to the EU, the issue of the Hungarian land, when the free flow of capital was to be negotiated, was essentially allowed to the European Union with some kind of neoliberal indulgence. And they also allowed the support received by Hungarian farmers to reach the average European level, which, by the way, came to all EU citizens who dealt with agriculture, only gradually, very slowly. And you did not fight this out for the Hungarian farmers. A step-by-step solution has been put in place, which, in my view, runs counter to the fundamentals of public law that have been said today in very nice words. In the same way, we could talk about the amazing transfer of sovereignty granted by the Lisbon Treaty. So I was very disturbed at that time by the fact that the Hungarian national sovereignty, which our leaders had fought for for many centuries for much over a thousand years, seemed partly to evaporate with such an agreement. With a transfer of sovereignty, they also gave away elements of sovereignty that would not otherwise have been mandatory. In certain bodies, my country had veto rights, and you didn't take them. Balliberal governments at the time, who negotiated the other half of the chapters, didn't take advantage of it either. So let's be fair, criticism is in two directions. My political community has not been involved in all of this, but I am right to criticize you for the fact that, both over the years of the accession negotiations and during the preparation, adoption and unread ratification of the Lisbon Treaty, all of this has been largely unread and has not complied with the warnings that we are now rightly bringing up on this day. I have to say that, in terms of the EU, yes, I consider all forms of sovereignty transfer to be harmful, or at least to be very founded and justified, so that something like this can happen, but let us look at this whole public-law dimension that we are talking about very much, how it develops in our everyday lives. Where I live, and where we raise our children, my family has actually lived for the third generation, and there's always been a post office. We won't have any mail from Friday, because you agreed with the European Union... [[Peter Cseresnyés intervenes.]] Even though it's croaking, things are connected. [[An intervention from the Fidesz ranks.]] You agree with the European Union that you cannot support the Hungarian Post if it is loss-making. It was years ago that the classified case of the purchase of stamp collections, where they might have tried to provide support, came, didn't it? They're handing over slices of our sovereignty that we're going to get to the point where our library is closed, our mail is now closed, there's still a GP's office. This is a suburban part of the settlement, which is, in fact, a civilian-aliened settlement, with a great opposition victory in the previous municipal elections, but in the past, we have been through campaigns with such civil, often fidesz victories. Everyone agreed that a suburban community would want to live normally. Now your mail will be lost, and your reference is that the European Union will not allow you to support the Hungarian Post. Think about it. So here we are hearing very nice words about the need to preserve our sovereignty, and when we look at the images of our daily lives, you are demonstrating inertia, precisely referring to the said Union. The reason why it is important to bring this example here is because it is the imagery of everything we are talking about in our real lives, and if we do it right, it will not be that way, if we do it wrong, and then we need to bring such examples here, and I see that the inability of our everyday lives can also be tied here. [[12.10]] Among the achievements of the Golden Bull, we have to mention the preface of conflict of interest, if we can say so, but I also refer to the presumption of innocence, as it was already a prefigure of what appeared in later centuries in the course of legal development in terms of sanctions and penalties. And yes, certain elements, say, in parallel to British development, have come here a few years apart, but some elements have completely preceded their age, and they could actually give direction and direction to the development of the world's law, and I am unheard ofly proud of it, so I categorize it as an absolute national value, as well as the foundation, so not just what we may have applied at the same time as others. All in all, however, I see that what could be taken into account for today's purposes should be taken much more seriously. I have already set a real example in terms of sovereignty transfer, and I feel the same way later that if anyone tries to limit Hungarian sovereignty. We're thinking the same way, by the way... I set the grounded example in order to see to what extent the ban on land donations granted to aliens and their restrictions still have to do with the lessons to date. I praised the basic law sheet, that is to say that the Holy Crown doctrine, its mystery, appears at least at the level of mention, and I said that this is not really our problem with the Basic Law, but rather our technical, construction conditions, the lack of full legitimacy and what is not in it. There are no areas of great importance. 32 areas were identified by the legislator at the time, which he decided not to clarify at the basic level, but to draw up the detailed rules in fundamental laws later and in some other circumstances. We know how many wounds caused by the birth of fundamental laws, and unfortunately, this criticism has also been founded. But, overall, I would like to ask you that, if you have finally recognised the importance of this, you should take seriously the warnings across historical ages, and both land policy and demography policy, or indeed, quite rightly, as regards the protection of fetal life from conception, to represent what our Hungarian ancestors, our ancestors, did not invent on their stomachs, but, in the course of organic, organic law development, they put the experience of centuries on the table with a very serious spiritual work; they did so at a sacral level at the time. I believe that all Hungarian Members should take this seriously, and that they must feel the importance of this, which is why I will support this proposal. Thank you, Madam President.
u2022-11-09-56	We will now continue with the second round of speakers in advance in writing, and I will be the first to speak to Mr László Pósán of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2022-11-09-57	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, I would like to continue with what several fellow Members have raised, and this is a question of sovereignty, and if I may, I would not be concerned with such subpoenas and interpretations of the Golden Bull text, but with the question of the golden seal giving the name of the document itself. It is simply because the golden seal, derived from late Roman law, is formed in Byzantium, and is a symbol of the totality of state power, sovereignty, and it is no coincidence that this seal will be used by German-Roman emperors who, by the way, considered themselves to be the supreme power of the Christian world, in Hungarian, the holder of the fullness of power. And when a medieval king, such as King Andrew of Hungary, gives his diploma a golden seal, he basically emphasizes that he is not the emperor, but Hungary is a sovereign state, and he is the ruler of a sovereign state. At the time when he emphasizes this sovereignty, it is good to remember that at that time, the XIII. In the 20th century, the idea that was very simplistically formulated by the legists, the Roman law explorers, begins to develop throughout Europe, that rex est imperator in regno suo, the king's emperor in his country. The king is just as sovereign as an emperor, and the Golden Bull is an expression of this, and the renewal of the present and future times has repeatedly believed that Hungary is a sovereign state, an independent state, and that this sovereignty must, of course, be enforced in different circumstances at all times, but that it cannot be overlooked. So I think that when the National Assembly votes to put the Golden Bull's Memorial Day into law, we also decide that this day is the day of Hungarian sovereignty. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-11-09-58	We will continue the debate with more regular speeches. Member István Szabadi of the Group of our country is asking for the floor. Here you go.
u2022-11-09-59	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, The message and meaning of the Golden Bull show how history repeats itself. At the time, it was II. András' campaign in the Holy Land caused a domestic political crisis, and in our time the Covid epidemic and the Ukrainian war are also the cause of economic crisis. Back in the day, as a result of the debt caused by the war, András takes out loan loans from the Saracens and, as a result, puts the county and important positions in the hands of strangers; at that time, he devalues the money for the benefit of the chamber. Servants, members of the later class of nobles, protest against barons' authority. What's happening now? Today, just like indebtedness, inflation, the domination of the upper tens of thousands, the slow elimination of the middle class characterizes our society. The Golden Bull, 800 years ago, created a kind of reconciliation, an early national cooperation between the various social groups, which would be very necessary today. The resistance clause, which in our time corresponds to civil disobedience with little exaggeration, is a warning to all political elites. The Golden Bull, despite its repeated renewal, clearly regulated privileges, rights, and duties. Unfortunately, many today are only aware of their rights and refuse to acknowledge their duties. This should be urgently changed in the context of a new national cooperation or a national assembly. To sum up, then, thanks to the Golden Bull, there was a kind of peaceful public agreement between the various social groups, which should also be an example for the ruling elite today. Therefore, along these lines, the Hungarian Movement naturally supports the bill, because the aim is to live in a better and happier world, the perfect equivalent of the Golden Bull. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-11-09-60	Mr Zsolt Gréczy has applied for another speech from the DK Group. I give you the floor, please.
u2022-11-09-61	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I asked for the floor again because I feel that I must respond to the words of my fellow Member Imre Vejkey, who has spoken here about Western Europe as about destruction, death, such expressions as Sodom and Gomorrah. We are part of this Western Europe, this Western Europe is our ally. This is not the KGST and the Warsaw Treaty, to which we have been politically pushed; we have joined this European Union voluntarily and singing, supported by a referendum. European values are not lost, they are not denied. No one set the Vatican on fire. [[Intercoms from KDNP lines.]] No one has set the doctrines of Martin Luther on fire, there are the old codes, the Spanish have not denied Cervantes, the French have rejected Balzac, the Italians have not pushed the statues of Michelangelo off their pedestals, and I can still list them for a long time until Goethe. This is Europe, my fellow Member, and we are and want to be a part of this Europe. From what you've outlined here in the fundamentalist text about Christianity, we're one inch away from burning witches. So it's pretty amazing. And he said that Christian values were denied by European politicians. Well, you're members of the European People's Party as KDNP! Then you are sitting at a table with those who have denied Christianity and have denied our traditions. [[12.20]] Why are they sitting there? Well, get up and maybe get out of there, and we'll tell you with a big bang that we're not going to do anything about it. There is also a problem around chalk because Minister Tibor Navracsics said a few days ago that it was a mistake for Fidesz to leave the European People's Party. Should the Fidesz have gone back, or should they have stayed among those who refused Europeanism and our Christian-Jewish heritage? [[Dr. Imre Vejkey intervenes.]] Well, there's something wrong here. Not to mention the fact that the government is constantly going to mention a Christian tradition or not a tradition, an important Christian aspect canossa is coming to Brussels in order to receive EU money. There... [[Péter Cseresnyés: Because of you!]] Because of us? [[Peter Cseresnyés: Yes!]] Yeah, I get it. So there are two thirds of Fidesz, and therefore opposition representatives, which barely make up even one third, are preventing the EU from giving money to Hungary. No, you're constantly amending legislation. [[Peter Cseresnyés intervenes.]] amend... [[Peter Cseresnyés intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] At that time, I would like to say to Congressman Cseresnyés that there is only one politician in Hungary, there is one Hungarian politician who stood up, and at a press conference he told them to take the money from Hungary in 2006, his name was Viktor Orbán. [[Peter Cherry shakes his head.]] Never did a Hungarian politician say anything about taking Hungary's money. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Klára Dobrev!]] No one ever said that. [[A statement from the ruling parties: When did he say it?!]] As Viktor Orbán, Viktor Orbán said in 2006. Google should be your best friend, you can find it back. The opposition politician has never said that Hungary does not receive the money. But I would like to point out to Congressman Vejkey that it is not possible to accuse those with whom you are sitting on the same bench, this is the European People's Party, and from whom you are seeking money. This isn't gonna work. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács intervenes.]] And it is also sad that this debate has gone this far, because, as my fellow Member Z. Carpathian said, this could have been a more elevated moment, so to speak, when we are really talking only about the continuity of Hungarian law and the glory of the Golden Bull, but, well, if you have given this story such an actual political colour, then, of course, you had to answer that. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the lines of DK, Dialogue and MSZP.]]
u2022-11-09-62	A two-minute speech will be held by Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go.
u2022-11-09-63	In the spirit of abstinence, I was only two minutes old, and I would like to respond to my fellow Members, Zsolt Gréczy. It was your faction that presented the bill to abolish the confessional secret in Hungary, honourable Member. Not even the Communists dared to do that, even the Nazis... [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] Agnes Vadai last summer, honourable Member, you were not a Member at the time because of your scandals. Honourable Member, the Nazis have not tried to take the confessional secret away from the Catholic Church. He's talking about... (Gréczy Zsolt interrupts.) That was in the proposal, look at it on Parliament's website, honourable Member. When you talk about Europe not denying its Christian roots nor destroying the values that my fellow Member Vejkey has been talking about, look at the fact that 500 to 500 churches have been closed in France and Germany over the past ten years. They're chasing him, putting the cross out of the public statues so he's not there because he's bothering someone's eyes. They're banning the Christmas tree, the nativity on the side of the road, honourable Member. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Where?]] In France, Germany, Belgium, Luxembourg, honourable Member. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Did you believe that?!]] Local affairs, yes, county president, mayor, this is how it starts, honourable Member. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Did you believe that?!]] We think it's a bad process, we think it's a bad process. We understand that you have always been anti-religious and always have been anti-church, your... [[Balázs Barkóczi intervenes.]] Speaking of educators, you have withdrawn the funds for church schools, honourable Member. Your government has not given church schools the resources they need. [[Zsolt Gréczy: That's not true!]] [[Zsolt Gréczy: That's not true!]] which were entered in a contract. (Zsolt Gréczy: That's not true!) The court had to rescind you, Your Honour. [[Zsolt Gréczy: No! No!]] When we talk about the protection of Christian values, we are talking about the fact that there is a trend in Europe, especially in Western Europe, which thinks that Christian values, Christian values, are the past, belong to a dusty display, and that we are not talking about Europe's preservation. We have an argument with these political forces because we believe that it is important and that we must represent Hungary, Europe through these values, because these values have once made Europe great. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-09-64	Mr Zsolt Gréczy also applied for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2022-11-09-65	Thank you very much. Let's get this straight. DK was never anti-church or religious. [[Interjections and clarity in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] No, it is such a right-wing tradition, but it is strange, because this Fidesz-KDNP is also such an interesting formation, because I remember that Congressman Nacsa was not very much alive when this Fidesz was still a member of the Liberal International and when Viktor Orbán left the Parliament to speak the word "Trianon". So now... [[Nacsa Lőrinc: I've lived before!]] So Fidesz doesn't give us the unit of national dignity and national pride. The other is that DK never said that we should take away the confessional secret from the church, which the Democratic Coalition never said. And last but not least... [[Lőrinc Nacsa: He was in the bill!]] Congressman, there is no such bill. And by the way, I've never had any scandals. That's what I'd like to say. 27 court rulings have stated that your press lied about me, and I would like to indicate that the Hungarian State, since we are talking about continuity, has not implemented your final judicial judgments, your publications have not been corrected. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] (Lőrinc Nacsa intervened) ; the appropriate compensations have also been received. So I didn't have any scandals, so don't talk to me, Congressman, one more time. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Thank you.
u2022-11-09-66	No one has applied for a normal speech, so we have the opportunity to open another two-minute circle. In this context, Mr Balázs Barkóczi requested the floor from the Democratic Coalition. Here you go.
u2022-11-09-67	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. My colleague Nacsa, although I know that he is a great friend of his to perverting reality, nothing shows this better than this debate, where there has already been a dollar-left debate, sanctions have been mentioned in relation to the Golden Bull, and I do not understand how he comes here, so let us quote exactly last year's bill: it would require a comprehensive internal investigation of the sexual abuse of minors within the church. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Keep reading. Keep going!]] If you're referring to this as the elimination of the confessional secret, then congratulations, and I'm sorry. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Continue reading! Keep reading.]] Thank you so much for listening.
u2022-11-09-68	I will ask my fellow Members if there is anyone else who would like to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] As I do not see any other candidates, the general debate is closed. On behalf of the authors, Mr Csaba Hende points out that he wishes to respond to what has been said. I give you the floor, please.
u2022-11-09-69	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Dear Parliament, I would like to express my thanks to all the speakers in this House today for their support for the bill, and we felt our common national pride over the fact that we are on the shoulders of giants, and this obliges all of us to be worthy of the great ancestors within these historical walls. And as for the slightly deceiving and interrogative parts of the debate here and there, I must say that the Golden Bull has once again demonstrated that it has messages that are still in the past, and that the proper application of which is also our responsibility. Thank you again for being so active in this debate. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-09-70	Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. There will be a general debate on the amendment of certain economic laws and of certain laws concerning the management of assets and postal matters until closure. Government referral T/1842. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2022-11-09-71	Thank you, Madam President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/1842 amending certain economic laws and certain laws concerning the management of assets and postal matters The purpose of this bill is to amend certain laws falling within the remit of the Minister for Economic Development and concerning its responsibilities in order to facilitate their interpretation and application. [[12.30]] Dear Parliament, The amendment of certain provisions of the law on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings, based on practical experience, is intended to make winding-up proceedings more effective and transparent, in particular by technical amendments and clarifications. It also aims to extend the mandatory content of the disclosure of the order for liquidation in order to protect and better inform creditors. In response to the needs arising in practice, the proposal allows the liquidator to establish an employment relationship with a view to continuing the activity during liquidation or to the rational completion of the economic activity and the preservation of the liquidation property. The bill clarifies the scope of the personal data contained in the restructuring expert card, sets out the administrative procedures relating to the certificate and provides for an extension of the deadline in the context of the separation of the part of property which is capable of carrying out the economic activity during the winding-up procedure. These proposals are also justified by practical needs. The small amendment of the Housing Act clarifies the procedural rules relating to the exercise of the right of purchase in respect of public and municipal residential immovable property and clarifies the role of the body acting on behalf of the State. Ladies and gentlemen, During last year, the rental bidding portal, the electronic IT system that facilitates the exploitation of state assets through open competitive tendering, started operating. The amendment of both the law on national assets and the law on state property lays down, in the same manner as the contract concluded by the tender, the prohibition of a modification of contracts entered into under the rental licence procedure other than a lease notice. The amendment to the Law on State Property removes the conflicting regime between the Law on State Property and the Law on Enforcement Procedures to be implemented by the tax authority concerning the management of property acquired by confiscation. The amendment states that the law on the enforcement procedures to be implemented by the tax authority also applies the State Property Act, in view of the fact that the owner of the confiscated property is the owner of the Hungarian National Property Management Ltd. In order to reduce the enforcement experience and expenditure on the central budget, the bill amends the State Property Act on several points in respect of state assets intended for discharge. On the one hand, the proposal clarifies that the Hungarian National Asset Management Ltd. qualify as State property intended for discharge only if it is managed directly, so that the property transferred to the management of the assets cannot be classified as such. On the other hand, in order to reduce costs, and also in the light of the fact that designated Reserve Property Benefit Co. and the Hungarian National Asset Management Ltd. The transfer of assets between the two entities may be completed, while the transfer of public assets between organisations intended for discharge may be terminated at the same time as the review of the relevant provisions. In connection with the termination of the transfer interface, the proposal also includes an amendment to the National Land Fund Act, as the termination of the transfer interface concerns the order of the transfer of assets between the National Land Fund Management Centre and two other large state real estate portfolio management organisations, and the National Land Fund Act had to be re-regulated. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal also renews the holdings of companies which are considered to be of national property importance for the national economy and the Annexes to the National Property Act listing sports real estate. The former was clarified in accordance with the data contained in the authentic business register, namely: the companies that have ceased to exist have been led out of this, and a new company share will be added in line with the transformation of the Hungarian sports administration system, and the annex mentioned above will also be extended in connection with the transformation of the Hungarian sports administration system. Dear House, The bill also proposes a minor amendment of a number of laws concerning the management of state assets. This includes the amendment of the Act on Erzsébet Camps, which provides for the acquisition of state-owned real estate property, which is currently operated by the Foundation for Children in the Carpathian Basin, in order to facilitate the contact of Hungarian children living across the border with their mother country and to assist them with their dietary activities in the summer of children in need. The purpose of the amendment of the Act on the taking-over of certain public housing tasks by charitable organisations is to be transferred to the public utility nonprofit limited liability company MR Community Housing Fund in order to provide the public service contract with the company, according to the original legislative intention, but not yet transferred. Dear Parliament, The provisions amending the Postal Services Act relate to the development of postal services, the promotion of adaptation to changed residential needs and the creation of safe working conditions. The proposal was drawn up in order to amend the lead time for priority mail, to supplement the rules for individual contracts between the postal service provider and the sender or recipient of the postal service and to clarify the requirement to ensure the availability of gas spray to postal staff. As a result of the restructuring of the governance structure, domestic and international communication related to the prevention and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, which previously falls under the responsibility of the Minister for Economic Development, is the responsibility of the Minister for Economic Development. In view of this, the proposal includes an amendment to the law on the implementation of financial and financial restrictive measures imposed by the European Union and the UN Security Council. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to the proposals for amendments presented in detail above, the legislative proposal before you also proposes a small amendment of a specific legal nature. Dear House, Based on all this, I ask that T/1842. To discuss the legislative proposal, please support the regulatory intention set out in the bill. I thank you very much for your attention, Madam President, and I thank you for this opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-09-72	Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I would like to take the floor first from the Fidesz Group to Mr Mihály Witzmann. Here you go.
u2022-11-09-73	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/1842 on the amendment of certain economic laws before us, as well as certain laws concerning the management of assets and postal matters. The purpose of the bill is to amend or amend the laws and other laws of the Minister for Economic Development in the areas of state asset management and economic law regulation, which assist in the application of the law. [[12.40]] The proposal contains provisions on amendments to 14 laws, which Mr Secretary of State has just reported in sufficient detail and detail, so I would just like to highlight a few important proposals or details of proposals from the presentation before us. One of these: in connection with the Act on the Erzsébet Camps, I would like to point out that, by amending the law, Erzsébet for the Children of the Carpathian Basin Foundation, Budapest, XII. district, interior, 9121/7/A proposes the transfer of property with the location number 1/1 state-owned building. The property to be transferred is owned by the Foundation, Budapest, XII. district interior 9121/7 location of the Csillebérc Leisure Centre, which is located in the area of the former pioneer camp, refers to a building with a separate localization number, which is based on land use rights. The building to be handed over is owned by the foundation both in nature and functionally, Budapest, interior 9121/7. The operation of the property is already carried out by that foundation, so I think it is justified and logical that the property in question should be owned by the Foundation in order to facilitate the tasks related to the organisation of the camp for children and young people, as well as the management, management, education and training activities related thereto. The proposal before us also proposes to amend the law on certain arrangements for renting and disposing of apartments and premises. On 18 November 2021, almost a year ago, the Law on the lease of dwellings and premises and certain arrangements for their disposal entered into force, i.e. the procedural arrangements laid down in respect of the exercise of the right to purchase tenants established for a specific range of public and municipal-owned dwellings located on the world heritage site and its protective zone are clarified. If the State or municipality of the owner does not provide for the establishment of the traffic value necessary to establish the purchase price within six months of the tenant's indication, the tenant may ask the State to do so. According to the amendment, the determining body will be the government office of the place of residence. The Emergency Temporary Rules Act will also be amended in the proposal. In the context of strategically important winding-up proceedings, the time needed for the decision-making process may be an obstacle to the separation of the portion of the debtor's assets which is capable of carrying out the economic activity during the winding-up procedure and being sold as an autonomous unit, when the creditor's intention is to approve the separation, but it is not possible to take this decision on the basis of its own internal rules, precisely within a rather short period of 15 days laid down by law. For this reason, the amendment proposes the 20-day approval deadline instead of the 15-day deadline. Under the proposal, the applicability of the emergency transitional provisions concerning Act V of 2006 on company disclosure, court proceedings and winding-up is extended or extended by one year, i.e. until 31 December 2023. With regard to the amendment of the Postal Services Act, it should be pointed out that based on operational experience, the use of the priority letter by the population can be considered to be extremely low, but the relevant EU legislation does not provide for any mandatory rules on domestic lead times. In fact, the proposal seeks to adapt the quality requirements to a reasonable level of expectation that at least 85% of priority mail should be delivered by the end of the second working day following dispatch instead of the previous working day following dispatch. On the basis of the proposal, the Hungarian National Property Management Ltd. was proposed to amend the Law on State Property. and the Remembrance Remembrance Plc. The electronic transfer interface established by mass transfers of assets between the two countries will be eliminated in terms of cost efficiency. In view of this, the rules on transfers of assets will be re-regulated by applying the rules in force until 31 December 2022 in respect of assets to be uploaded to the transfer surface. In addition, it is clarified that the Hungarian National Property Management Ltd. only qualifying assets that are directly managed, i.e. that the assets transferred to the asset management cannot be classified as public assets intended for disposal. For the amendment of the National Property Act, Nvtv. Points 1 and 4 of Annex 2 are to be fully re-regulated. Thus, the table of state-owned corporate shareholdings in national assets that are of high national importance will be updated by leaving companies that have ceased to exist in the meantime, by amending and updating company data according to the data contained in the business register and by indicating the new company, the National Sports Agency Nonprofit Private Company. In addition, in connection with the transformation of the Hungarian sports management system, Nvtv. Point 4 of Annex 2 is amended as a result of a review of the table of national property property of national importance for the national economy and updates the table including real estate. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to support the bill before us with your votes following the debate, as I believe that all of the measures listed above want to propose sensible amendments based on forward-looking, logical and life-based experience. The Fidesz fraction will support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-11-09-74	I now give the floor to Ferenc David, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2022-11-09-75	Thank you very much for the opportunity, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The 1842 bill before us also contains a number of technical amendments. My fellow Member mentioned that it is a modification of 14 laws in one act under the salad law. I wouldn't go through the technical modifications. I would like to draw attention to three issues, three which I think we should have a reassuring answer to. I'm going to refer you back to an earlier speech on the agenda. In order to increase the efficiency of government asset management, if you recall, I indicated in the debate on the former 1622 that we cannot really support State asset recovery in cases where protected values are being placed on the market. On 27 October, in my speech at the time, I resented the fact that monuments, nature reserves, properties and property belonging to the Health Insurance and Pension Insurance Fund could be sold without real tendering, bidding and strict control. You may also remember when I said that we do not think it right to have protected natural values in private property during the sale, their flora and fauna could be put at risk, and guaranteeing the protection of the natural living environment becomes almost impossible. It is not possible to have a concrete Colosseum on the territory of current national parks. Hungary does not need new hotel complexes, but a sustainable, modern environment and climate protection programme. And now I turn to our agenda for today. One of the elements of this salad law suggests a new state asset recovery action, since the 2020 LXIV on the Erzsébet Camps. Erzsébet's amendment to the Act for Children in the Carpathian Basin is subject to the transfer of new state property free of charge to the Foundation. We're talking about loss of state assets, fundraisers. It is proposed that another state property, namely Csillebérc kindergarten, will be transferred free of charge to Erzsébet, which operates the Erzsébet camps, to the Foundation for Children in the Carpathian Basin. [[12.50]] Erzsébet, operating the Erzsébet Camps, close to the Szeged-Csanádi Diocese, is not eligible for a new asset allocation to the Children's Foundation in the Carpathian Basin. It is known that in 2016, the government gave away the so far state-owned resort complex in Zanka and Fonyódliget. Fifteen years after the acquisition, the foundation can do whatever it wants with the camps, sell the free-of-charged areas, and then set up for ten billion public money. In 2017, the government decided that the state would spend a total of HUF 26 billion on renovating non-state-owned camps. From this they obtained a HUF 21.6 billion commission from companies linked to Lőrinc Mészáros. The foundation was well maintained in 2021, as according to the annex of the balance sheet report, they received direct budget support of HUF 10 billion and HUF 977 million and HUF 244 thousand last year. This is supported by the current asset allocation, which proves that the practice of the Fidesz government to donate state property to it politically loyal foundations and church denominations continues. The connection between the foundation and Fidesz is clear, just as the Szeged-Csanádi Diocese itself is not far from the government. We don't support free asset relief, new outsourcing of state property. On the other issue, I will say the Democratic Coalition and my own opinion in a shorter way. It is well known that the Central European Educational Foundation had previously received 18,3 hectares of the territory of the former National Institute of Psychiatric and Neurology, which was closed in 2007. The NER's new elite high school is being created, which is not subject to the national public education law. With regard to the current proposal, we do not agree that the Foundation will be in an even more privileged position by not having any more restrictions on the registration of real estate, and thus making it even easier for the property received from the State to be misplaced. Similarly to the example of Csillebérc kindergarten, we also experience the desire to make dealing with valuable real estate elements previously removed from the state's jurisdiction easier. Of course, this effort is not eligible for us either. And on the third question: In January 2022, the first comprehensive housing agency project, namely the MRI Community Housing Fund, was launched. the creation of a State aid scheme. The new agency could start to operate with real estate and financial backgrounds received from the state, but it is not a state company, because the task was outsourced to the Hungarian Maltese Charity Service and the Reformed Love Service. Church-bound charitable organizations could receive a package of thousands of homes scattered throughout the country in connection with a foreign currency rescue program, along with the residents. With this program, the government has taken a step in a direction that has been denied its importance so far. So far, it has only supported access to housing and has rigidly rejected the central rental concept. The Church Bond MR Community Housing Fund Nonprofit Kft. with the establishment and support of 3-3 billion HUF within two years, the state has essentially exited the market and passed it into the hands of the church, while active but politically critical actors in housing areas cannot obtain this option. Based on the foregoing, we disagree with the new support of the housing fund, the monopoly of the market. To sum up our opinion: because of the outsourcing of state property, the facilitation of its management and the ecclesiastical care of the housing agency project, the bill cannot be supported by the Democratic Coalition. Thank you very much for your kind attention.
u2022-11-09-76	The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is now Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. I give you the floor, please.
u2022-11-09-77	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Dear Parliament, I will also respond to Mr Shadow Minister, and I would like to speak before him about the bill, because talking about privatisation from DK colors is quite insane, and I would also like to discuss in detail what the Member has spoken about. But let us look at the amendments to the wealth management package before us, and let us look at how we stand with the state's wealth, if you have spoken about it. Since 2010, Fidesz-KDNP has been committed to increasing, recovering, protecting and effectively using state wealth for the benefit of the Hungarian people. Since 2010, under the Fidesz-KDNP governments, unlike left-wing governments, state wealth has not decreased, but has increased significantly, my fellow Members. While in 2010, the value of the state's assets was HUF 11 650 billion, the value of the state's assets is currently about HUF 20 000 billion. This means that it has increased public wealth by more than HUF 8000 billion. [[Dr. Tamás Mellar: Real value?]] the civil, national, Christian Democrat government. Earlier, Mr Melár was one of those who opposed the privatisation of the Gyurcsány government, and now the honourable Member starts with DK and MSZP logos. We regret that he has deviated from his former principles, and now he supports what the Gyurcsánys have done before. The last 12 years prove that the state can be a good farmer, and it is in the interest and safety of Hungarian people that, for example, the assets of high importance for public works or for the purposes of national strategy are state-owned and are not enriched by foreign speculators or left-wing oligarchs. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.) This is a particularly important aspect of national security in a neighbouring war and in a war, inflation, sanctions and energy crisis. The devastating war, sanctioned inflation, the energy crisis and Brussels policy create a difficult situation, while the Fidesz-KDNP government, even in this historic, multiple global crisis, protects the reduction of the rent for each Hungarian household to the extent of average consumption. The fact that since 2010 the national government has continuously recovered the previously irresponsible wasted public utilities and infrastructure elements of national strategic importance from the left has played a major role in protecting this reduction. I would ask the honourable left-wing Members: how would there be energy security and reduction of electricity now, if gas reservoirs were not owned by Hungary, for example. If they are foreign owned, as you have owned and even attacked gas reservoirs abroad, the MSZP has even filed a complaint concerning the re-purchase of gas reservoirs, if the gas reservoirs were not national owned, what would you think: would the foreign owner give the amount of gas to the Hungarian families, or would he use it for himself? What do you think if gas dealers and waterworks were owned abroad, then Hungarian people would be given these utility services, electricity supply, gas supply or water supply at reduced prices? The fact is, my honourable fellow Member, that you have sold everything, the family silver, and now you are asking us to account for the fact that, by the way, those who bought it back and have taken national ownership of these national strategically important utilities, and are now attacking us on asset management issues... I think that, thank God, this House is well built, that the ceiling is not falling on our heads. For a moment everyone closes their eyes and imagine what would be the situation now if this difficult energy crisis had reached us during a left-wing government, and let's say that the government leaders Ferenc Gyurcsány and Klára Dobrev would be with DK wallet managers, DK branches, LMP, MSZP, Dialogue, Jobbik, Momentum and others would consider the debate so important that they are not present. If this government were in Hungary today, what would it be? There wouldn't be a national-owned utility, there wouldn't be national-owned, strategically important companies, there wouldn't be a national-owned gas reservoir, because you've already done this once. You have played more than two thirds of the nation's strategically high-profile companies, state-owned companies, in private hands. [[13.00]] Energy sector, large public companies, banks, utility companies, state real estate and land: 192, mostly profitable state companies were privatised. 192, ladies and gentlemen. Budapest Airport, Postabank, MOL Share, Antenna Hungária, MÁV Cargo. MÁV Cargo was so profitable, honourable Members, that its two-year profit was more than the amount you sold it for. Well, let's imagine this situation. Then why didn't Ferenc David stand up and say that this is a terrible situation, that the Gyurcsány government is playing the national fortune nicely for foreigners and the left-wing oligarchs? Then why didn't you say such words, Your Honour, that you couldn't support loss of wealth? We agree, state wealth needs to be increased. But 192 state companies, most of them profitable state companies, were sold in your time. I think this is the scandal we need to talk about. Then you sold out the country, sold the utilities to foreign property. It was a huge irresponsible thing to do, and now, during the energy crisis, we can truly see how irresponsible it was. The foreign owners made a huge profit out of this country at the expense of Hungarian consumers. Compared to the wallet, Hungarian consumers paid Europe's highest overhead costs. That's because you sold these companies and guaranteed profits to foreign owners. The Hungarian families paid for the highest prices in Europe at that time. Ladies and gentlemen, how is this? ! The gas and electricity price increase was 15 times higher and Hungarian families had to pay more than HUF 1060 billion between 2004 and 2010. In those six years, 1060 billion HUF has flowed out of the wallets of Hungarian families because you took these steps. Think of where we would be today, in the midst of a serious energy crisis, if left-wing wealth management policy had continued beyond 2010. My fellow Members have spoken about the current bill, but let us also talk about Csillebérc, the Erzsébet Camp and the OPNI, my honourable fellow Member. Well, who closed the OPNI? It's safe to say that you closed the OPNI. You shut it down, left it on parlag, to destroy a public institution located in a valuable area, with other valuable functions, to destroy it and to destroy it. You closed it, it's a historical sin, a historical responsibility. What happened to Chandler? You have Members in your ranks who were involved in all kinds of chandelier shops, my fellow Members. Do you fear the children of the former communist camp? In ten years, one million Hungarian children were allowed to vacation in the Erzsébet camps. Do you fear the children of the Erzsébet camp? Well, what a good goal it is to have children in need, children with disabilities, teachers, teachers, students on holiday there every year! ? There is now an Elizabeth camp at the foot of the Madarasi-Harghita, where young people across the border can also take a vacation. I have always tried to refer to this in the previous debate in connection with Zsolt Gréczy's speech, and there is always something unreligious and anti-religious about DK's speeches, because you say with such contempt that this belongs to the Szeged-Csanádi Diocese, the Maltese Charity Service, the Reformed Charity Service. These are institutions, which have been here for centuries and are important institutions, which perform incredible work in Hungarian society, which do incredible work, especially in terms of the most deprived, in their interest. Charity is a charity work for the Maltese Charity Service, but all the Hungarian charitable organisations, both the six large and the other smaller charities, must be valued with the highest appreciation and respect for their work, honourable Member, they must not be attacked. Have you ever been to Camp Elizabeth? I was in Camp Elizabeth. I specifically ask myself to attack teachers, animators, camp organizers, who are camping children there every year, for many weeks, who may never have made it on vacation before. There were camps where children who remained half orphans or orphans in the Ukrainian war were camped with the support of the Hungarian government. Do you regret these children having a decent shower, a beach, a community room, a chapel, a gambling room, a dining room, and so on, which we have renovated with the money you have read on our noses? It is precisely when we are able to achieve good wealth management with public money that drives this country forward, and which, for example, provides these children with a community experience that may be decisive throughout their lives. I'm asking you to stop attacking the Elizabeth camps. I'm asking you honestly. We'd be happy to invite you, I'm sure we can talk to the organizers so they can visit an Elizabeth camp and make sure they do the fantastic work there with their own eyes. Once again, we've increased the state's wealth, and you've sold out the state's wealth. This is a huge difference in approach, so we cannot accept a lecture from the left on asset management issues. KDNP will support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-11-09-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. I warmly welcome my fellow Members and we will continue to work. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Sándor Szabó. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-11-09-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I'll get to the bill soon, but it's amazing what Congressman Nacsa is doing. Half the country, but already three quarters of it is in the hands of the Garanchi, Tiborczok, the Butcher Lawrence, and then you stand up and talk about national wealth. What kind of national wealth? ! Your NER knights own, own, Congressman, this country! [[Rushing from the pro-government benches. Gábor Bányai and Péter Cseresnyés intervene. Nacsa Lőrinc: You sold 192 companies!]] Well, it's a shame. And you're gonna stand up and accuse us of what you've given to your own circle of friends and friends and NER riders. Well, shame on you. Shame on you. [[Róbert Szigó: It's not true!]] Yeah, that's right. That's right. [[Robert Szigó: Shame on you! You're not telling the truth!]] Think about it yourself. That's right. [[Robert Szigó: You're not telling the truth!]] I won't say anything, of course. Because Congressman Nacha was telling the truth. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Shame on you. [[Robert Zsigó: Shame on the congressman!]] Well, there's a good salad law before us, by the way, to amend 14 laws. There is, indeed, a law on bankruptcy, a law on the lease of apartments and premises, state property, National Land Fund, Erzsébet camps, housing state tasks, charities, and more. What is more important and interesting to us is the amendment of the Postal Services Act. Indeed, the proposal regulates some rules on the management of state assets once again, as the portfolio of economic development reviews each sector's laws almost every year. Obviously, the more interesting amendments to the proposal are the following, it has already been said, but it is worth saying again: liquidators have the right to establish new employment relationships, the operation of the Hungarian Telegram Office does not need to have a separate law in the future, it is much easier to terminate existing contracts with regard to state assets, the creation of state-owned spaces, parks, public spaces and subterranean structures will fall exclusively within the economic sphere of the State. There was talk about the transfer of the property to the Children's Foundation in the Carpathian Basin, which could have been linked to guarantees, and I will talk about the postal law. Mostly I would like to talk about this, because it is indeed worth highlighting from the amendments that the law on postal transactions should be amended, just because it is not regulated by this law, but in the last few days Magyar Posta has announced that 366 posts will be closed in 210 settlements, and announced that from 1 January next year, it will be making a group downsizing for 300 people, which may be a significantly larger number. The Prime Minister said today, in the hour of immediate questioning, that this should be done, that the mail should be converted, that the quality of service should be increased, but if we look strictly at this law, the part about postal services, then this amendment is specifically about the fact that priority letters may be delayed for one day in the future. I think that's all, but it's not an increase in the quality of service, however much the Prime Minister said it. Then the Prime Minister said that Magyar Posta is a loss-making company, and EU rules exclude the Hungarian State from providing support to an otherwise loss-making company. Well, honourable Members, Magyar Posta reported that it had a HUF 9.5 billion profit in 2020 and a HUF 14.8 billion profit in 2021. I just want to give you the last two years. Then I respectfully ask our pro-government colleagues what your prime minister was talking about when he spoke about loss of money in terms of the post office. The Prime Minister also said what EU rules rule out. Well, every year, the State reimburses the unfair additional burden of the public services provided by Magyar Posta, the postal universal service provider. [[13.10]] This is, by the way, permitted under EU legislation, so I would like to emphasise that it is permitted under EU regulations, and this has been the case in previous years. In fact, in the 2023 budget plan, the Prime Minister's Cabinet chapter has HUF 5.6 billion available for this purpose. Again, what was your Prime Minister talking about? Otherwise, the closing wave of the mails will have very serious consequences in many settlements, for example, if I only look at my own constituency, Szeged or Békéscsaba, two thirds of the mails will be in county seats! it will close and there will be settlements where it will actually be impossible to use the services provided by the post office. This is another restriction, affecting hundreds of thousands of people in Szeged, and it affects tens of thousands of people in Szeged, as it is likely that more people will have to line up, it will be more difficult to settle their postal matters or pay their bills, to give up their mail, because in many cases several kilometres may have to go to another settlement, which is also likely to cost people. Returning to Szeged, it is completely meaningless and unjustified that parts of the city such as Tápé, Petőfitelep, which are 5-6 thousand settlements, which are already suitable for a small town in Hungary, remain unserviced and the post office is closed in these parts. But I can tell you about a residential post office where 8 to 9,000 clients are supplied per month in Szeged. We are talking about a modern, modern post office that has been renovated in recent years, the postal office owns this building, the overhead costs are also very low, we don't have to pay rent, and it's also an educational post office, and once again, 8-9 thousand customers are received every month, and this post office will be closed, which is completely incomprehensible and totally unacceptable. Well, if we're gonna do a little bit of active politics, that's not what you promised. Mr President, Mr President, you have just stood up and said that there has been a great deal of protection in your actions when consumers above average have to pay two or seven times the price for electricity and gas, which, by the way, is likely to affect 50 percent of the population. They also liked to say that they would not raise taxes, while the abolition of the cat is a covert tax increase. They also said that they would protect the increase in food prices. [[Sic!]] Today's data, not me, is 40 percent inflation in food prices, rising and 21 percent inflation in October, which has increased further compared to the previous month. So this is the kind of thing that the Hungarian population is faced with while otherwise taking new austerity measures, see the postal closures, and in the days we discussed the bill, for which the Hungarian State, when it comes to assistance and support, takes action to put itself in the most background, and says that in the area of social benefits, the individual first takes care of himself, and then his relatives take care of the individuals who need him, and the state puts himself first in the final line. Why don't you take some time to think about the measures you're implementing and keep the promises you made in the election campaign? At that time, as an individual representative, as a candidate, your propaganda door was looking for me daily with precisely these questions, to declare how I would raise the bills, how I would send soldiers to Ukraine, and how I could list them. We wouldn't have done anything, but you're doing everything you said to us at the time, and you're doing it in the first place. So I'm also asking you here in the matter of the post office to reconsider your actions, not to close any mail, because it makes people's daily lives difficult. By the way, the representatives of the local government in Szeged will be out on the street collecting petitions and signatures, which will be sent to the government, 12 times this week, by 12 November. I told you just because settlements of 5-6 thousand people and settlements of 8-9 thousand people will remain without a post office in a city as large as Szeged. We're talking about a city of 160-170 thousand, and 12 of the 19 post offices are closed. Amazing! I'm telling you, Mr. Secretary, because it's obvious you'll be the one to answer that. I'm not the only one who was upset about that, by the way. Just let me tell you a few mayors. Zoltán Balajt, mayor of Zalaegerszeg, learned from the press that the post offices would be closed, and the city manager turned to the post office with an open letter. Tamás Horváth, mayor of Fidesz-KDNP, finds it outrageous that despite the difficulties and sanctions that affect everyday life, they decided to close the mail without consulting. György Vass, mayor of Fót Fideszes, signed the DK initiative against postal closures. Csaba Dióssi, mayor of Dunakeszi recently responded on Facebook that he had personally sent a letter to the Hungarian Post Office, so that by the way the mails would not be closed, and I could tell you how many mayors have made similar statements from your ranks. I want you to think a little bit, look people in the eye, and finish the austerity policy you're pursuing. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2022-11-09-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member of the Parliament. Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2022-11-09-81	Mr President, Dear House, In the case of a salad law of 14 elements, it is very tempting to see which cards you draw first, since 15 minutes, the 15th hour at my disposal, is not enough to run through all areas. However, I find it quite amazing that, during the previous debate, a moment of grace could have come up in the subject of Golden Bull, and I managed to bring the Union into it for fellow Members, and then the matter of post, and then, of course, I had to respond to it. I must say that this proposal, which envisages a minimum amendment to postal services, acts as if reality did not come to light. I would like to say again that my family is not the first generation of Starghegy, Obuda, the III. He lives in a district, and indeed our library was closed years ago, the post office left of previous historical times was closed years ago, moved to a seemingly cheaper-run room a few hundred meters away, and this new post office is expected to cease its operation this Friday morning. It is very interesting that, according to the saying and central communication, it will be temporarily closed, so it will be considered in January, but the locals and some of the workers here also have serious verbal resistance to the events. There was also a petition, which, after its departure, was essentially just one of the locals, from Obuda, I understand that it has already been enriched with more than 2,000 signatures. It also came to me that the employees were told not to expect them to be able to return to their original jobs in January or spring. In the beginning, we do not know that the group reduction of 300 people in the Hungarian Post Office, which was said to have nothing to do with postal closures, is really nothing, to whom and how it will affect. I expect that the workers among whom, by the way, have been resident for a very long time, and would like to work here, locally, to be scattered to the surrounding remaining offices; but once again, here is the III. We are talking about the district of Óbuda, Csillaghegy, Békásmegyer, it is a zone that includes the suburban areas of a civil nature. Here, however, we do not see the poverty conditions typical of North-East Hungary, some of the villages, and yet we see that the elderly countrymen living there, so also a more fortunate senior countrymen living in the civilian quarter, may now have to go on a serious tour if they want to receive a recommended shipment or a priority letter. It is here before us that it is important for the government to modify that the priority letter must reach the end of the second working day after dispatch, so here they bring some buffer or mitigation to the system, obviously because of the complaints received. We get back to the previous agenda, where we've been around the issue of the Union and sovereignty, and it's quite amazing to me that this government is verbally, rhetorically, very protective of its sovereignty, but when it comes to us, Starghendon, the post office closes, he says that he can't help the company because EU and competition rules don't allow him to support the post office. [[13.20]] He had to do some serious tricks years ago, as I recall, in connection with the purchase of the stamp collection or others. I do not want to say that I expect similar creativity from the government now; I expect you to clarify this issue. By the way, if you're looking for recipes, specifically in keeping and supporting jobs under Covid, new opportunities and new styles of economic channels have been opened to entrepreneurs. I could imagine looking for similar ones in this case, where they do not specifically support the public company, the private company, the office, but specifically mobilise community funds from a job retention approach. What's scary to me is that the closure comes before they even thought about it. And once again, if we can suffer such losses in a civilian zone, and what was there when I was a child is very little of it, there are very few of them, and I am not an old man, then what can happen in small settlements whose participation in daily blood circulation and cycle depends on whether there is a store, vane post office, and vane doctor or duty. I'm gonna say it again, the III. I live my daily life in the district, and I read in parallel with these news that it is possible that the GP and on-call system could be transformed in connection with new health proposals, there would be a lot less central place to be on call, but let's say that the Pomaz is not so far away from us, which, according to the plans published in the press, might be left without an on-call or without the usual on-call order. So what I would like to say from this is that, in the field of government wealth management, the treatment of public companies, I, as a simple citizen, experience in everyday life that these services are constantly being dismantled around us; their standards fall where appropriate; the everyday sense of security of those who work there is being impaired, and this certainly does not show the characteristics of a developing or self-standing economy. Once again, in my narrower living environment, these changes can be seen in parallel in several areas. But I'm really glad we have the opportunity to have a talk about state wealth, because here's where I agree with the government, and some things I don't. In addition, a well-prepared secretary of state represents these matters, with whom I can engage in constructive dialogue. I appreciate that, because in today's style parliament, it's a very rare thing. The fact is that here I was quoted a HUF 8000 billion increase in state wealth, even my fellow Members, and when I asked at Commission level how it came out, the question was raised in the Committee on Economics, I did not receive clear and reassuring answers because, in the context of state assets, we should examine how much inflation itself has pushed up the measured value we are talking about, and what I propose to my fellow Members to examine, look at how the value of the real estate portfolio has changed in terms of national assets. Many of these companies account for a huge share of their assets in their real estate. The property price explosion for known reasons may convey an image that the wealth of the state and the wealth of the state companies is rapidly increasing, but if we count this, let us say, not in the rapidly weakening Hungarian forint, but in some kind of base value, then it is possible that the increase in wealth that they show is made up of two things: the excess of detection resulting from the appreciation of the real estate portfolio and the weakening of the forint. Therefore, it is not possible that the active and everyday economic activity of these companies is something that shows extra or positive. I asked a clarification question on this matter at Commission level. I got a promise that I'd get an answer in writing. I have not yet received this, not from the Secretary of State, but from the experts in committee and in the field. I am very confident that we will be able to show something here, but with regard to the state's wealth, the request for housing has been discussed. I think that my fellow Members have highlighted an extremely important area here, because in relation to housing there is a completely false approach to this government: it says that it only wants to promote access to its own, independent property. My fellow Members say this because they asked the Hungarian people, and they say that they would rather live in own property than in rent. By the way, 101 percent out of 100 would say that, so I don't really know a man who would say that if he had a choice, he wouldn't be living in own real estate, he would rather live in a rental. The reality is that all social groups are missing out on planning, so there is no rental program; this is why the public support for the housing savings was dismantled. So the people who, with help, collect for themselves a bank loan for years from the small one that they can squeeze out of their paycheck every month, will stay out of planning. It was therefore the government's basic philosophy that he was only supporting the acquisition of self-owned real estate. Compared to this, the afterlife of the International Asset Manager, i.e. the real estate portfolio and stock we talked about, has now been outsourced, essentially, to a ecclesiastical sphere of activity that acts almost as a housing agency; not in the way that the concept was originally dreamed of, but experimenting with something similar. So in the government's basic philosophy, there was a partial break, because, Mr. Secretary of State, to praise you, I think it was a good thing that, at the end of the day, the people involved could buy back their own apartment at a very reduced price, those who had what and could even reach where. It's a good thing. So let's not say it's wrong. For me, his philosophy is distorted, that after bank defective products, fraudulent games, people's property is lost, and then, if he can pay, hire him back. Mr State Secretary, this does not suggest the image of a strong nation state: it is a reactive attitude, a follow-up and otherwise a vulnerable state to banks. So I encouraged you then to be more ambitious on these issues, but now I see that you have outsourced the strict state task to the ecclesiastical agency. So it is not only social housing that is a state-government task to argue about which part should take on more, but certainly not specifically and exclusively a religious or civil organizational authority. Even the Fundamental Law regulates this, although it appears there at the level of a weak ambition, so there is no right to housing, there is only ambition, but even there it is regulated that it is a dog's duty. You've outsourced this, and I'm complaining that the fate of hundreds of thousands of our countrymen has also been outsourced to nothing, and they don't appear in budget planning. And when we see new government assets being transferred and the ecclesiastical housing agency managing a real estate portfolio, we again have a sense of shortage of national housing, especially in a situation where any economist tells us that there is a brutal supply shortage throughout the housing market. There are very, very few apartments. So when my fellow Members stand up and talk about the growth of state wealth, why do they not mention why there are fewer and less social housing with state-owned or municipal ownership? So how come a welfare state doesn't show up with a caring hand in an area where there's a brutal supply shortage, less housing, and more and more difficult to carry out both social and otherwise very serious economic tasks? Because creating decent housing conditions for a family that is about to be founded and enlarged is a matter of national economic importance, keeping future taxpayers at home, preventing forced emigration. So I don't understand why, in the process of increasing the state's wealth, they don't focus more on this area. My fellow Member Nacsa mentioned earlier companies, production capacities and factories, which were undoubtedly not only sold out under controversial but fraudulent circumstances, and, yes, I was also irritated by the 8 percent guaranteed asset-proportional profit that was otherwise papered and guaranteed to foreign companies. This was equivalent to total abandonment of national interest. I think very few people are arguing about it, and there's no question about it. What really hurts me, and I'm trying to give a practical example of all this in the next two and a half minutes, is that unfortunately, not only did the governments before 2010, but they were a big part of it, to a large extent, but since 2010 the recovery has not even started in whole areas. I'll give you an example of the sale of our last paper company, maybe you'll remember. What did the investor who bought our last paper factory promise you? He promised to keep the jobs for two years. What happened after two years plus a day? The promise has been kept, but it has been removed from our property and its operation has been terminated by this agency. Now, Secretary of State, if you go into any bookstore and I hope there are many people in this room, as I am, that as a lover of books, I do this on a weekly basis, you see that the price of an average book is 6-7 thousand forints, that's what a book costs. [[13.30]] The reason for this is not only that there are fewer customers or higher labour costs, but also that the result of irresponsible management of state assets is that domestic production capacity has ceased, which, let's say, could have been interpreted in terms of paper production and publishing, and has not been rebuilt by anyone. The fact is that, therefore, we are faced with books prices of 6 to 7,000 HUF, and we should have looked at it so that we could build domestic production capacity in order to print textbooks, academia books, children's books, thinking publications in a slightly more accessible way or at fairer paper prices. My favorite newspapers, which I've been reading for decades, are often printed in the Highlands or the Southlands, which I'm not sorry about either the Highlands or the Southlands, but I'm pretty sure that in terms of goods, they'll get to the remaining readers at a higher consumer price than they normally do. This is why we have announced a programme to save books that would also examine what can be rebuilt in terms of production capacity, the background. My request is that if you talk about state wealth and national wealth, then in the case of historic lost Hungarian production capacity, you should look at what can be resurrected, what can be rebuilt, because at this age, too, there would be many advantages that if they were concentrated in national hands I would say this once again: in national hands and not in the hands of an oligarch. Thank you for your attention. [[Antal Csárdi applauds.]]
u2022-11-09-82	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the Dialogue Group is Mr Tamás Mellar. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-11-09-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, We are facing such a salad law right now, and I have been told by many that 14 pieces of legislation have been amended. As the Parliamentary Secretary of State said, this is basically interpretation, application and technical amendments. By the way, looking at these legislative proposals, I also think that this is the basic characteristic of this, but there are also critical issues or critical points here. I wrote out three areas for myself, which I thought were important to talk about, and then during the debate it turned out that the speakers before me had already spoken about this, so it's easier for me because I can make this whole question shorter. The first thing I have written for myself is this post office, about the post office, but here my neighbour, my fellow Member, Sándor Szabó has already talked about this in quite detail. I would simply like to say that both in relation to postal closures and to take the service to a lower level now, so that they will be able to deliver services in not one day but two days in relation to priority letters, it shows that there are serious problems at the post office. I don't think we should've done this right now, anyway, and we should've put it into this. The situation, I think, is ripe for a very thorough screening and a very thorough reorganization at the post office, because the problems are much bigger than that with the closure of some post offices, the dismissal of some people and the reduction of the level of services. So I'm sorry that this is going to end up here, so I think we should sort this out somewhere else. The second thing about the Erzsébet camps there, however, was Ferenc Dávid's saying. I would like to stress here: so I took it out of Ferenc David's words, but he will disprove me if he does not, but I am of the opinion that this is not about us not supporting the Elizabeth camps. Of course we do. We are very happy that there are such camps, we are very happy that there is a Foundation for Children in the Carpathian Basin, we are glad that you are doing such a good job, it is really necessary and really important. And, of course, it is also important for the State to ensure that there are adequate assets there so that it can perform this function, but it does not mean that this property should also be transferred. The right of operation may be transferred, an appropriate contract may be concluded and this work may be carried out in an appropriate manner. When I was teaching at the University of Pécs, my academic work was not influenced by the fact that the university was state-owned and now it's in foundation, so should I be teaching or teaching worse? So here is a fundamental problem, which I think should be considered when we talk about asset management, that individual forms of property alone are neither absolute good nor absolute bad; otherwise, it depends on what tasks, functions, or how regulation and control are designed and can always be chosen and selected accordingly. But while we're at it, let me say a few words about what came up here in the debate. There's this Hungarian horse, I call it: this Hungarian horse doesn't really have a back, on which you can sit up properly, because we're either on one side of the horse or on the other side of the horse. After the change of regime, we saw left-wing socialist governments selling out a significant part of the state's wealth, strategic business lines, and it was definitely wrong, it was wrong. I wrote it back in the day, and I still think it wasn't good. (In the notary seat Dr. István Tiba Replaced by Attila Gelencsér.) Then Fidesz came later, and then Fidesz began to renationalize me, which was not bad in itself, but the question is what happened after that, and in a number of cases it was possible to see that Fidesz had bought back the same assets, just in order to return them to his favorite friends, sell them or sell them cheaply. So, technically, we're in the same place. The most striking story is the transfer of university wealth to foundations and forms of foundation. I cannot quite interpret what my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, has said here, as to the extent that state wealth has increased in recent years, over the past decade, and has reproached me here for wagging my head, for not being able to accept it, and for thinking that I cannot accept it because my political position has now changed. It's not like that. It is simply a question of professionalism that should be raised. So if I say a number that in 2010, that was the amount of state wealth, and then in 2020 I say forints here, the least we can do would be to say that this is to be interpreted at current prices or at the same price, and if it is at the same price, then tell me at what price it really is, because I could say one of those numbers. Take in euro, see in euro what this wealth looked like in 2010 and see what this wealth looks like now. Then the price of EUR 260, and now the price of over 400, should be calculated. It could easily be that the state's wealth did not increase, but decreased. But obviously I would still make a mistake, because there, however, it would certainly have to be considered as a purchasing power parities. So this is not a political commitment, but rather a profession, and a kind of professional minimum should also be required here in Parliament, I think. There is a third point, however, which has not been affected here by the amendment of the law. It amends the national assets, the table listing the shares of companies of national importance. Well, by the way, I saw that MVM now has a slightly different name, but here it remains state-owned, 75 percent plus one, and then practically the rest of it can be privatized. By the way, I think this is an emergency, especially given the fact that MVM is in a lot of trouble right now, it has a lot of problems, because it has to take care of the gas supply, the bad and defective contract in which we buy the gas very expensively; it doesn't have enough money, so it takes on Chinese credit. [[13.40]] And you can see from the example of other countries that China prefers to grant loans that, as collateral for loans, definitely want assets and assets. I'm making use of the suspicion lawsuit that this could be a loophole, that if we open up the 25 percent part here, he can get it, get it, and then he can set foot in this sector, and maybe expand further later. So I would have thought it would have been more comforting or I would have thought it would have been 100 percent, and technically it would have been, because it's very important. By the way, the post office has one of the same constructions. I think it would be more appropriate to keep the 100 percent at the post office. And I say all of this on the basis of the fact that I continue to maintain that it is not necessary to fetishise any of the forms of property, it is always the particular task, the particular function that decides it, but in these two cases, I think that the state function, the state task and the state control are essential, so it should be more stringent here by law. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-11-09-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. Member István Szabadi is the lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-11-09-85	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The bill before us contains amendments to the laws under the responsibility of the Minister for Economic Development, but in most cases there will be appearance measures, for example in the case of winding-up proceedings and in the case of post office, it does not seek to solve the problems effectively, which will be saved by eliminating the IT interface for the transfer of state assets, which will be given to civil society organisations of their interest, such as the Elizabeth Foundation. The Hungarian Movement agrees that the period of application of reorganisation and restructuring procedures introduced last year in order to restore the viability of enterprises in difficulty due to a coronal virus epidemic will be extended by one year until 31 December 2023. We also agree with the clarification of the bill concerning bankruptcy law, according to which, for example, the order to be published in the Public Procurement will need to include information on the limitation period for the notification of creditors' claims in the future, as well as the electronic mailing address of the administrator and the liquidator. However, these are additional information, which are very important. The bill identifies it as an important innovation that the exempted liquidator should draw up an intermediate balance sheet for the period from the opening balance sheet of liquidation or from the last intermediate liquidation balance until the date of its discharge in order to assume responsibility for the economic events of the winding-up proceedings for the period up to the discharge period. This is also very important and should be highlighted. On the basis of the announcements received by the Hungarian Movement, however, it would be necessary to take even more decisive action against those who operate illegally, which reveals procedural errors not only in the future, but also in retrospect, which, in our view, often involve serious abuses, cover-ups, and the suspicion of embezzlement in several cases. For example, such an extreme case, which I would like to draw attention to, is the unsolved case of the salt-kút industrial park for 12 years, where the former owner's company was wound up in 2010 due to the expiry of a debt of HUF 40 million. The debt was created by the CIB Bank promising a start-up loan to the company, and as a sign of this, the property had a HUF 66 million frame mortgage on its property. The plant was finished, but the contractor didn't get the loan. In 2010, the court appointed an illegally operating liquidator for the proceedings since 2009. So in 2010, the court appointed an illegal insolvencyist since 2009, who sold the HUF 200 million property for HUF 16 million, at an abnormally low price, at 8-9 percent of the value. But the interesting thing is, he couldn't even account for this income in court. The creditors were not paid, and since the debtor was a one-man company, they left the debt on it. The case leads to the conclusion that, despite the establishment of the Supervisory Authority for Regulated Activities in October last year, the supervisory authority for the supervision of trades and gambling, executives and liquidators have been authoritarian for decades, judges are terrified of liquidators, and banks are involved in the corruption network, as the previous example has shown perfectly. After the liquidation of the executive mafia, the Hungarian Movement has also put the detection of corrupt liquidation commissioners on its flag, will monitor the work of the executors appointed over the past period, the supervision activities carried out under the new superpower, and will take decisive action with the public's involvement against abuses. The bill also concerns the rules on the carrying of arms by postmen. Currently, the postman himself can decide to carry a gas spray or gas and alarm gun, but according to the amendment, in order to increase safety and avoid accidents, only the employer Post would decide to provide the postman with gas spray. This measure reduces the right of posters to self-defense, which, contrary to their purpose, will certainly not increase the safety of posters. In our view, given the state of public security in Hungary, the postman should continue to decide that, especially on the days when pensions are delivered, he needs a self-defense tool that the post office provides him. According to the bill, at least 85 per cent of priority mail will be served by Posta one day later, by the end of the second working day following dispatch, instead of the working day after the date of dispatch. All this is to be introduced by referring to the very limited use of the priority letter by the population. However, there is no justification for possibly planning to reduce the price of the service accordingly. In our opinion, this measure is intended to cover the shortage of staff, simply so few postmen that they cannot deliver priority mail in time. Since July, more than a hundred mailboxes have closed on the grounds of a reduction in energy use. The situation is aggravated by the temporary closure of 366 more mails in 210 settlements from 12 November; they say that they are quasi-stopped, but we know that what is paused or closed, even if temporarily, the reopening of it will be like a dog's dinner, or not. In order to increase efficiency, even 300 postal workers are intended to be dismissed. Within these noble walls, I mentioned the situation of the post office in my very first speech, and I already mentioned that the biggest problem with the Posta is that the management is more of a manager than a postman. And that's when I asked the government representatives to do everything they could to ensure that there were no mailbox closures. We see what's happening now. For example, where I live, it affects several small settlements in the constituency. I mentioned Pirto, but there is, for example, the village Imrehegy, where in the past decades there has been only retrogression and not progress, and now it is a very serious blow to close the post office there too. On November 12, the residents are going out on the street for a joint protest at 2 p.m., because they cannot and do not want to accept that if their settlement is no longer evolving, they should at least not take away from them what was still a little help to them. According to the view of the Hungarian Movement, the closure of the post offices primarily complicates the situation of older people and families with small children, who cannot get to the far-reaching post office. In the country, postal services have not been working well for decades, rather than dismissals, we should talk about the appreciation of workers, which would require wage development, better working conditions, the elimination of sales expectations and the creation of trade unions that are independent of the top management of the post office. [[13.50]] The bill envisages extending the simplified transparency rules of the National Property Act to cases of transfer of state assets where a budgetary body sells or disposes of small-value assets. According to the amendment, in such cases, the acquiring entity should not be required to make a declaration of transparency if its ownership background can be traced back to natural persons. Although Mi Hazank Movement agrees with this amendment, it does not agree with the fact that in the case of an offshore contractual partner established for tax optimization purposes as of 2012, it is practically sufficient to declare that its actual owner is known. Therefore, it is not necessary to declare who the owner is, but only to declare that the owner is known. The undertaking budgetary body is not obliged to examine the reality of the declaration prior to the conclusion of the contract, only to verify that the company has fulfilled its obligation to make a declaration, which does not exclude the possibility for public bodies to sign with offshore companies, so that it is not possible to find out who the owner is; this is nothing, take it well. But let's keep looking. According to the bill, Erzsébet for Children in the Carpathian Basin Foundation and the Erzsébet Foundation, the Csillebérc Szabadság és Jufiság Központ will be owned for free by the Erzsébet Foundation two years ago. The justification is that the transfer of property is necessary in order to establish the uniform ownership conditions of the plot and the superstructure. The mission of the state child and youth camping was taken over in 2016 by the ecclesiastical Erzsébet Foundation. Since 2016, the Foundation has received nearly HUF 30 billion in budget support and an additional HUF 13.5 billion in EU funding for the public service mission, which it organised for its own company, Erzsébet Gyermek- és Youth Táborok Szolgáltató Kft. by means of a single-offer procurement procedure. According to the accounts for 2021, it turned out that it was worth working at the Foundation, as the remaining educational and training activities, social, cultural and other programmes, as well as the organisation of social, cultural and other programmes, were provided by employees of the Foundation for an average gross HUF 930,000 per month last year. The president of the Curatorium was told in 2017 that one of the most expensive hotels on the Lake Balaton to work in his office in Zanka every day, where the accommodation costs 110,000 forints a day. Looks like public money can handle anything. In addition to the Erzsébet Camp in Csillebérc, the state gave the foundation both the Zánka Children's Camp and the Fonyódliget Camp in 2016 and provided more than HUF 40 billion in public money for the development of the transferred property in recent years. It goes without saying that the construction works were carried out by companies belonging to Lőrinc Mészáros, and the foundation may, under the National Property Act, alienate the property 15 years after its acquisition. According to the view of the Hungarian Movement, in today's rushing world, there is a greater need for general child movement and state-supported camping than ever before. That's not a question. Where children can gain lifelong, unforgettable experiences, this is extremely important for the Hungarian Movement, too, but we do not agree that under the pretext of child camping, the state is giving property belonging to national property and serious public money billions to civil society organisations in its sphere of interest, and what is extremely worrying is that it does not control the use of public money. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-11-09-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mr Csárdi Antal. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-11-09-87	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Yes, we have a salad law that amends 14 laws. The only reason I told you this is because everyone told you, I'm telling you, I don't want to stay out of line. But let me start with the apartment law out of these 14. I could start by saying who called you, Zsolt Bayer, or Philip Rákay, that you are slowly getting access to your apartment in Buda Castle, which has already been negotiated with you. 'Cause what does the amendment to the housing bill say? He says that if the municipality doesn't send the valuer in time, then the local government office will send him out after six months. Now the problem is that, fellow Members, I think it is worth talking about this amendment. Believe me, every resident involved in buying this apartment is extremely looking forward to this valuation, but it must also be seen that the law under which the right to buy arose was an unthinkable and inadequate law. Remember, this law states that all buildings with municipal housing must be declared condominiums. I would just like to say that this means that in District I... the vast majority of these apartments are not a hundred percent, but the vast majority of them are in District I, so 110 houses must be declared condominiums in District I. We all know the cumbersomeness of the land office procedures, and this is not over yet. What does that mean? This means that in the event that the government office wishes to have a valuation carried out, it cannot, and it cannot, because the valuer will not be able to estimate value, because there has not been a final, final transformation into a condominium. So I would like to point out to my fellow Members that this amendment, here and now, does not make sense in any way that it would speed up the access of residents to housing. But speaking of which, I think it's worth seeing why we're here. This law has long been adopted, but I think it is necessary for everyone to know that on 30 March 2022 the Prime Minister's Office and the Monument Protection Authority sent a list of the apartments to the municipality, because the municipality did not have this type of register, to which the last, relatively significant amendment of the Housing Act applies. This means that the whole process could begin in April 2022. I think that if you're watching the news, we're at this point, however, that practically the first sales have already been made, but, obviously, because of the delay of the Memorial Authority, the whole process has been delayed. I think that, on the other hand, if we had already touched this law, it would have been worth considering the original legislative intention. Remember, in the explanatory statement, it was written in white and black that the goal was to rehabilitate our fellow countrymen living in the Castle, who were losers of the rental house sales of 95, many ten years ago. Compared to this, I think you should have proposed in this law that we approximate the conditions to the 95s for those who were already tenants of the municipality, and in particular those who still live in their rented apartments to this day. Obviously, Zsolt Bayer or Philip Rákay stays out of it, but I still think that if we think about it, we have a responsibility here, not primarily, to our friends, but to citizens in the district or in the country. But I think they could have said, on the basis of the exact same principle in their amendment proposal, that the wealth thus acquired was... the circle listed above, i.e. those who were already tenants in 95 and who live in their rentals, let's say, they grant a tax exemption, as they did in 95. [[14.00]] But, obviously, the story doesn't stop here, because this law has many other parts of it that have been missed, but let me not highlight them as opposition representatives, but I should also talk about postal services, because it is worth considering that for many years the postal director has been one of Hungary's most paid civil servants and what the well-paid civil servants have done to the post office. Technically, he couldn't pick up or establish the competitiveness of the post office, and today we're there, and the 21st century arrived. 20th century to the post office, that, in the case of priority mail, priority mail should be delivered not the next day, but the third day only. (In the notary seat, Dániel Z. Carpathian Replaced by David Dócs.) Well, please, really, the next step can be to drive the steam locomotives back at the MÁV. It is shocking to see how incompetent people have been placed in the post office and in what direction this post office has shifted, what the consequences are now, and, besides the closures, because my colleagues have spoken about this for a long time today, that it takes three days to deliver a priority mail. That's amazing. I think it is also worth saying two sentences about taking over home-building tasks by the charitable organisations. I believe that, in addition to what has already been said, this regulation is also at risk of being practically outsourced to foundations, effectively bypassing the forest law, the land law, and, in practice, our national treasures are in uncontrollable private property. I would just like to remind everyone of the experience in the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank, because what is happening is that at the moment that I quote Lajos Kósa, the public money or public property loses its public or public property character, because, in fact, it has entered the foundation, let us remember that the foundation money is the foundation money, at the moment we have no opportunity to verify that our national treasures comply with the environmental standards that are actually in force, how they manage this public property. I think that there is a legal technique in Hungary that would have been capable of achieving the goal, but this is certainly not about ownership, because, on the one hand, state property is actually decreasing, and this is a reduction in state wealth, and I think that I should just want to not repeat the previous speakers so that these assets, these national values, remain the property of the public. And in asset management, I think it could have been done in a transparent way, that these assets, for example, are the camp that we are discussing a lot for the otherwise noble purposes that many of us have talked about. I think it's worth considering what the real thing might have been! the reason why this bill was born here, because let's be honest, in addition to the technical amendments in itself, we found rather outrageous parts in it. Thank you so much for listening.
u2022-11-09-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. I give the floor right away from the Fidesz Group to Mr Zoltán Kovács. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-11-09-89	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, This proposal is about a great deal of important things, and the pro-government Members have already spoken in their keynote speech, and I would not like to point out my comments to a segment, but I would like to recall some history in response to the colleagues who are here, who are not yet representing Sándor Szabó, who was talking about the mails, what is going on right now. First of all, we're not talking about closure, we're talking about suspension, so let's get this straight. [[Antal Csárdi intervenes.]] during which the negotiations are ongoing. I would like to say that when, during the Gyurcsány government, Pál Szabó, who was a postal director and then Minister of Transport and Communications, and we know that Ferenc Gyurcsány was the largest privatiser, in his time all the post offices in the settlements under 600 were closed, 542, there was no debate, and this topic could not be taken on the agenda here in Parliament. Here, please, there's a bill about this and a lot more about it. And I would also like to add that 80 percent of the buildings where this activity took place were municipal-owned. Despite all this, these post offices have been closed. I would like to tell you that in different situations, Sándor Szabó is not here, so I cannot address the historical retrospect to him, only to his fellow left-wing Members, let us look at the story of the splinter and beam in our own eyes, and then the picture is complete. And I think that this issue is not yet closed, and a number of discussions are still taking place, and that is precisely why the post office should be able to provide the current or better service to the citizens of the country as a whole. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-09-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. He also applied for a two-minute speech from the DK Group, Mr Ferenc Dávid. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-11-09-91	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. I'll be extremely brief. I am obliged to respond, although one eye cries, the other name, if Congressman Nacsa were here, I would answer his suggestions, but it is better that he is not here, because then I might accidentally hit the tone that he struck, dealt with everything, but did not give any meaningful answer to the questions that I said in my speech. Therefore, I would rather turn to the Secretary of State in these short two minutes, and from the three issues I have talked about, I would like to think of the fund, the housing fund, but I would really like to mention the matters relating to the Elizabeth Camp. It was said with enough emphasis and temperament that either of us here was against the vacation of children, children in need, the occupation with them, or the holidays of children across the border, and it was also said that we were anti-church. I would very much like to stress it, and first and foremost to the Secretary of State, I say that, of course, that is not the case. It's only the concern that speaks of us here, and I'd rather say the most serious part of what many of us have said here, that when the assets are handed over to this foundation, at the moment it is out of control, there is no control at the moment of what happens to this fortune. It's being filled with money, so many of us have said that it's got very serious money in it, and of course it's okay to have state money in it and renovate these camps, but the fact that in 15 years these assets are running out of time to be alienated and sold is in no way acceptable. This has been said by several of my fellow Members, and I fully agree with that. If there was any guarantee that [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I don't think we should do that. Maybe we wouldn't do that, and we wouldn't argue about it that much. Thank you so much for listening.
u2022-11-09-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask my fellow Members that someone would like to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] I am speaking to Mr Róbert Dudás of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-11-09-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I have heard from a number of Members here on the bill before us, that we are talking about a salad law; well, we are used to that, by the way. I would like to highlight one of the 14 proposals that it contains, and perhaps not surprisingly the postal issue that I have dealt with several times over the past few weeks, and I can even say that I started to deal with this in August last year, although I was told at the time that I was spreading false news, unfortunately now it has been confirmed that I have not. Last Wednesday, I asked the Prime Minister about the closure of the post office and the rescue of the post office, and the Prime Minister said that there was a need for a necessary transformation in order to modernise both the service and the more customer-friendly business, and that the 21st edition of the 21st edition of the European Parliament and of the Council had to be updated. He didn't say those words to meet the expectations of the century, but that was the point. [[14.10]] When I saw this bill and saw that it included the work of postal affairs, then, frankly, I was delighted and I was curious to see what it would contain. But the fact that the provision of pepper spray is laid down by this law, in a way, I think it is preposterous in the present situation. When we are faced with the closure of 360 post offices in 210 settlements, which is likely to happen within days, this is totally unacceptable. Zoltán Kovács, my colleague, who just went out [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: I'm here!]] I'm sorry, he just changed his place, and with his two-minute comment, he started some thoughts in me, and let me respond to them. He said in the end that this case wasn't closed with the mail. Well, we have a lot of faith in him, too. But besides the fact that we trust him, believe me that the people of this country are even more confident that this whole thing isn't closed. Otherwise, regardless of whether we are talking about settlements with pro-government or opposition leadership, everyone is trying to help. But I'm sure you're also aware that the Fidesz faction in Obuda has raised its voice, why they're shutting down mail and asking the mayor to take care of this case. By the way, I suggest to the ruling party in Óbuda that you try to turn to your own government, because he will be able to help you, as a state-owned company. My fellow Member, Mr Kovács, also said that it was not a closure, it was a suspension. It's obviously communication. But I beg you, they're sending 300 people away. People who are, by the way, undeservingly low wages... [[To the intervention of Lőrinc Nacsa:]] I have listened to you, too, Congressman, so in many cases they are working for unfairly low wages and poor working conditions. I'm thinking about delivery people here in the first place. And referring to the question of pepper spray for one thought: so far, it was optional for them to use it, it was their decision, but I think that this is not a coincidence in this bill, because from now on, it is likely that the post office will require them to do so. I'll tell you why, why I think that. I think this because mainly in the countryside there are reorganisations and, most of all, during the spring, they will see the light of day, that they will centralise post offices, and although the office will remain in several settlements, the delivery itself will be centrally managed. You have to go over, take a bus, ride a motorcycle, take a train, whatever you can get to a central post office, and then go home with an electric moped to your own village, do your job, go back, count down, then go home. If you say this is the 21st. 100th-century modernization, then there are serious interpretation problems here. And they do it in plus 40, minus 20, even in snow to the knees, with millions, millions, or tens of millions in their backpacks or bags. They are, or will be, at risk even more serious than the present one, so the systematic and implementation of a self-defense tool that we consider to be important for them will be mandatory at present, because it will be important to protect themselves. My fellow Member also said that they closed under the Gyurcsány government, if I recall correctly, 574 post offices in settlements below 600 people, and how wrong that was. I completely agree with you. Once again, I fully agree with this statement, but this does not give the Fidesz government the right to carry out postal closures, like the Gyurcsány government. He says that certain questions could not be put on the agenda at that time. Well, that's where we're at, ladies and gentlemen, that you can't put it on the agenda. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: We are discussing it now.]] , because the committees are going to dismiss the series of opposition articles. But if that is not the case, and I bow down to you, my fellow Member, then please support our bill which is waiting for a series of articles, and which is precisely the area which the Hungarian Post Office is required to operate in a settlement over a thousand persons under this agreement, the agreement between the government and the post office. The bill I'm proposing is to take this thousand-man border down to 500, so that we can save the small-town mail. The closure of small-town post offices, which you considered to be of concern, which happened 15-20 years ago, is still a concern to me today. I'm telling you today that this must be avoided. So I ask both of us and all of us to support this bill, and then the small-town mail will be saved. Thank you very much.
u2022-11-09-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I now ask Mr János Fónagy, Minister of State, as rapporteur, that he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Dr. János Fónagy: Yes.]] Yes, he does. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-11-09-95	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, We had the opportunity to hear an educational and colorful debate. I would like to start by thanking, in part, those who have found our entire presentation to be eligible, in part, my fellow Members who have considered certain elements to be eligible. Thank you for that, and please press the button accordingly. If I may, I will try to sum up some of the topics that almost all my fellow Members have mentioned, not forgetting the three points of my fellow Member David that I have written down. In connection with the transfer of state assets, it was nice to mention the protection of monuments and perhaps nature. I would also like to emphasise here, as I stressed in our previous proposal, which you have referred to, that for all areas of purpose which are protected in the case of nature conservation under Natura 2000, in all cases where there is a change of ownership, if the law allows it, ownership will be transferred while maintaining conservation protection. The same is true of monuments. For monuments, perhaps the example on this subject is not very good, because in the conservation of monuments, a significant part of the change of owners served precisely the purpose of ensuring proper use in the restoration of the original state; for example, the castle program. The Erzsébet camp was forgotten by several fellow Members. I have to tell you, it's XII. I was an individual representative in the district, so I had the pleasure of following the story of Chillebérc and even contributing to a certain degree. Those who have been sitting here longer may remember the accounting disputes of the KISZ and the discussions with the pioneer association. Annex XII is replaced by the following: The district was also the government's help. After years of litigation, we got these things back, how do I put it? For example, from organisations that have completed their activities, the Camp of Csillebérc, so this is just the afterlife of this. The Erzsébet camps have been serving children's recreation, camping and similar purposes for many decades. As the Member confirmed in his two-minute session, he is not having a problem with the placement, support or recreation of children, and I am also very confident that in the Hungarian Parliament, no one will object to ensuring that children within the borders and outside the borders are given a holiday, camping, catering for disadvantaged people and providing them with a lifetime experience. I'm guessing they're in favor of that. [[14.20]] In parentheses, I have to say that in the '50s I wanted to go to Csillebérc, too, but from St. Stephen's Park they didn't really delegate delegates, so I didn't get to Csillebérc myself, but I really wanted to. The same goes for the Lipótfield, so to speak. I very much hope that, to the best of my knowledge, the country's largest building estate, of which, many years ago, after the closure and abandonment of the former socialist government, has been a function, will be successful, and when this school starts there, the opinion of it will change. What was on the third question was the Maltese Love Service, the Reformed Love Service and the MRI Community Housing Fund, I believe that my fellow Member Nacsa has answered, and I will not repeat this with your permission. What my fellow Member, Dániel Z. Kárpát, has raised here is what is going on with regard to the assessment of state assets: there are rules on the valuation of Hungarian state assets, and this is done in accordance with them. They're well-known, by the way. Almost all my opposition fellow Members have used the 24-hour extension of the delivery deadline to bring the issue of Magyar Posta here, which I very much understand. I'm one of the few who is responsible for this matter. I was, among other things, the Minister of Post Affairs from 2000 to 2002, and the process we are discussing now started 30 years ago. The fact is that these processes started in Austria, England, Denmark or the Netherlands 60-70 years ago. Without transforming today's discourse into a general debate of the Postal Act, allow me, fellow Members, that it is... mobile mail. So this activity has been going on for decades, and there are mobile mails in hundreds of settlements, mostly with favorable receptions. I'm not saying there are some places where it wasn't successful, it went down there, but the mobile mail, not everywhere, but in most places it was welcomed and it works well. Magyar Posta has been working for 8-10 years to build partnerships, hundreds of places to partner with local governments and private parties, where there is a joint operation. In the framework of the Hungarian village programme, 250 settlements have taken place so far, and there is a living contract and in 2022 physical implementation, I think of building and investing here, so that the village centers, or other buildings for commercial purposes, built within the framework of the Hungarian village, can have a place in the post office and operate with partnerships. It works, and the civilian government has spent very hard money to modernise the mail. Logistical centres have been built in many parts of the country, and digitalisation has progressed significantly. If all of this has been said to speed up these processes, then you are right. This is what we are trying to do, and this is what the Prime Minister referred to when he said that these processes should be accelerated and modernisations should be done. I have several fellow Members who have said that... 300 people are only in command, so they are not colleagues behind windows, they are not postmen. These 300 people have nothing to do with increased parentheses due to the energy prices of sanctions: this is 20 billion for the post office only this year, a post office that has been operating with management losses for many years. Someone mentioned why he was successful for two years. Because the Hungarian State bought the Stamp Museum, and in those two years the Hungarian Post had revenue from this sale. That's how it came about. So it was a loss of money all along, and now there's a surplus cost of 20 billion. Here in this House, my fellow Members from the government side and from our mouth have heard several times that the government has wished for it and wishes to start saving itself. State apparatus and, as a consequence, public companies are obliged to reduce energy use. That's 25 percent. This naturally also applies to the Hungarian Post, and its costs must be reduced. As far as pause is concerned, it is no secret, it was published in the press as well, 35 post offices in Budapest, by the way, were closed in the past time, and if I remember correctly the number, in the country we paused 366 post offices. We have not closed it, we have paused it, specifically because of the current 20 billionaire and the new energy bills expected in the first months of the 23rd; because of bills and many times we have said that have resulted not from the operation of the Hungarian government, not from the operation of the post office, but from sanctions that respond poorly to the war, and from jumping energy costs. I would like to say to my colleague, Mr Freeman, that I am not in a position to state a government position on specific matters. We're available on individual matters, we're willing to examine you, but I don't know. I would also like to stress to you that the mass dismissal of 300 people, which has actually been announced, is not a matter of delivery, of postage interruptions. There's only one person who doesn't lose their job in the case of a postage break. As I recall, there are seven hundred and one postal workers, each of whom will be posted at the nearest place to their residence. Congressman Mellar has gone, and I say to the record that he has made the share of the property listed in the Annex to the Hungarian Electricity Works and the Post Office an object of objection. That hasn't changed, it's 75 plus so far, and that's all that's left; so it hasn't changed. [[14.30]] All in all... I'm sorry, I have one more comment about the post office, that, of course, I am aware that the local post office is as much an emotional issue as a rational post office management issue, and I also understand, of course, if people express their opinion on it. At the same time, I would suggest to my fellow Members that, where possible, in these settlements, the mayors concerned are rather told that we should tell them to contact me, and that if we can find a common solution for the future, we are currently implementing this government measure, but if we can find a common solution for the future, then we are partners in that. Mayors have already applied, we're negotiating with them all the time. As many post offices as there are so many solutions, I suggest that the mayor responsible for the settlement should contact me and try to solve the rest. I'm not saying in a word that we can solve it everywhere, or that's the intention, but for the future, it can and will be a solution. In the meantime, they helped me, 1249 settlements still have mobile mail, so it is in a significant number of settlements, which means that the post office is successful in addition to many other measures. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry that I also deviated from the substance of the draft law, but I thought from the comments that this was the first need for an answer, that is what I was trying to do. Thank you again. Where they supported it, where they didn't, I ask you to review your position on the basis of my answer, and if you see an opportunity to support our draft, do so. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-11-09-96	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. We now have a general debate on the bill to amend certain laws affecting churches until closure. Government referral T/1785. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. For the first time, I give the floor to Secretary of State Miklós Soltész, the author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2022-11-09-97	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Allow me to provide you with information on the essential provisions of the submitted bill amending certain laws affecting churches. XXXII of 1991 on the settlement of the property situation of former ecclesiastical property The Law, hereinafter referred to as the Real Estate Planning Act, recognising the valuable cultural creation, preservation and transfer work of the churches in Hungarian history, their significant tasks and important social role in education, health, social and cultural services, provided for the settlement of their built-in property, which was nationalised without compensation after 1 January 1948. This deadline was 31 December 2011. The implementation of the Real Estate Planning Act played an important role when the churches restarted after the change of regime, especially in relation to the provision of public tasks. It was partly due to this that our churches were able to break the framework of exclusion into which the communist dictatorship before the regime changed them. The aim of the atheistic regime was to prevent churches from performing public tasks, including education and social and charitable activities. Especially among young people, the then state power restricted churches, so they could only maintain a few schools: eight Catholics, a Reformed and a Jewish church high school, more for appearances. In this way, he wanted the souls of the growing new generations to be acquired by the communist regime and to shape it in its inhumane image. Even in such a framework, churches have been able to demonstrate exemplary activity. State socialism is now a history, while our churches, in particular, have been able to flourish in the last ten years, which has rarely been seen in the last thousand years. By the end of the real estate settlement process, the churches received at least part of their former schools, social, charitable and cultural institutions. Thus, the process began, particularly after the change of government in 2010, in which churches had the opportunity to occupy their rightful place in society, the place which they were entitled to based on their thousand years of organic development, from which only an anti-natural and antihuman dictatorship, if only temporarily, deprived them. However, following the implementation of the Real Estate Planning Act, it was found in several cases that churches, mainly urban churches, which were continuously used even during the communist dictatorship, were in fact not church-owned, but remained in a significant part local government-owned, possibly state-owned, on the basis of the former Lordship. In many cases the parishes and parishes themselves were not aware of this legal situation, which they found out only when they started renovating their churches with their own strength or borrowing, or with state aid, and in this connection it became necessary to obtain current ownership papers. Taking into account Hungary's Fundamental Law on the separate functioning of the state and religious communities and the right to freedom of conscience and religion, and the CCVI 2011 on the status of churches, religious religions and religious communities. hereinafter referred to as "the provision of the law of the Church concerning the protection of the church and other places assigned to the practice of religion', the bill states: on request, property directly built for religious, sacral purposes, but owned by state or local government, property ratio church, chapel, provided that it was used and used for such purposes at the time of entry into force of the amendment under consideration and at the time of lodging the application, it is owned by a church free of charge and free of general traffic tax. I would like to point out that the proposed amendment will not reopen the process of applying for real estate, which will only open up the possibility of the ecclesiastical ownership of a small number of religious and sacral properties which have been cancelled for the reasons indicated. I think we can agree, regardless of party status, that the best place for a religious property or church is in the hands of the Church. Dear Parliament, CXXVI of 1997 on the material conditions for the religious and public activities of the churches. In other words, the Church Finance Act currently provides for the possibility of obtaining the property necessary for the pursuit of the public interest activities of religious communities with legal personality. In view of the fact that internal ecclesiastical legal entities can take on or pursue public activities on their own, it is appropriate to supplement the Church Finance Act. The previously described Church Real Estate Planning Act 2. Paragraph 2 of the Act defines the tasks of faith and public interest which the church may have applied for under the law for its former properties. [[14.40]] Since then, in addition to the provisions of this Act, significant real estate benefits have been allocated to the reconstruction and development of churches, both real estate and property received from individual real estate applications, as well as to public and European Union funding. In view of the fact that housing and budget support linked to a public interest objective are also intended to satisfy an important social need through meeting the church's needs, it is also appropriate and necessary to ensure these Community objectives in the event that the ecclesiastical community or body that has received real estate benefits may in the future cease to function in Hungary. In such cases, it is also necessary to ensure the continuation and continuity of the public activities related to the property, which is not only an important goal for the church concerned, but also for the entire Hungarian society. Similarly, there is a particular interest in the preservation of their nature and role in the case of sacral property of particular importance for the activities of the church. In view of this, the proposal also provides for ecclesiastical succession in such cases, of course on the basis of prior consultation with the churches concerned. In this regard, I stress that in the case of succession within the church, the competent ecclesiastical bodies also act with regard to internal church rules. Ladies and gentlemen, In order to protect the rights of children, pupils and their parents who attend the religious institutions of public education and training, the bill aims to ensure the ownership of state- and municipal-owned buildings for the provision of tasks and their accessories, as long as the activities of church, public education and vocational training are carried out. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members that this kind of asset allocation, which is linked to the provision of tasks, is not unprecedented in our legal system. In the case of public education institutions maintained by the national authorities, the transfer of ownership of the property held by the institution is covered by the 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. Law has already provided for the existence of public education activities in the building by a consensus of the 96 percent majority of the Parliament beyond the political division of the Party. On this basis, we have a strong confidence that this House will also support this proposal, since there are also public education and training institutions maintained by a church maintainer in a local government-owned building. In order to ensure their long-term operation and to protect the rights of pupils and their parents, the bill also aims to ensure the ownership of municipal-owned buildings and their accessories as long as public education and vocational training activities are carried out there. Therefore, the bill provides for the conclusion of contracts for the registration of property change in the real estate register and, in the event that this is not established by the specified deadline, also for the possibility of bringing proceedings and, in this context, for the prohibition of disposal and debiting. Where property and movable property are replaced by other property elements in the event of the cessation of the provision of public service from the ecclesiastical part, including the transfer of the right of maintenance, central budgetary body, local government or non-established church or other religious community private foundation to the economic company maintainer, the ownership of the property, together with the property, shall be returned free of charge to the original owner. The bill also provides for rules on settlement in such cases. If church funding is amended and adopted by the bill, the right of ownership shall, mutatis mutandis, not only in the case of future transfers, but also in the case of public education and vocational training institutions which are already operated. Therefore, in this case, the bill also provides for the conclusion of contracts for the registration of property change in the real estate register, the possibility of judicial redress. In addition, it provides for the imposition of a disposal and debit ban in the event that, by the given deadline, the transfer contract is not concluded. Finally, it also deals with the accounting rules governing the return of real estate. In view of the fact that the provision for the transfer of real estate to established churches and internal ecclesiastical legal entities for the provision of public service tasks is laid down in Article VII of the Fundamental Law. The amendment of the essentiality clause in the event of the adoption of this part of the proposal is also related to Article 5 (5). Dear Parliament, The 2001 LXIV on the protection of cultural heritage. Law regulates, inter alia, historical and national memorial sites. The national memorial site is a site of decisive importance in the history of the nation, which is of paramount importance in the nation's self-image, due to its nature to strengthen the union of the Hungarian nation and the ethnicities living in Hungary and the country. [[Sic!]] National memorial sites are also the sites of the state commemoration of national significance, which the Parliament declares by law. Among the national memorial sites are the property classified by the National Assembly as a national shrine. They also function as the spiritual-cultural centers of the universal Hungarians, and they have played a prominent role both in the survival of the nation and in the free exercise of religion. In view of this, it is necessary to lay down a good maintenance obligation for historic and national monuments, as well as to provide for issues relating to any change of property, in order to prevent national memorial sites from being excluded from the Hungarian ownership circle and, in view of this, to continue to fulfil their role both in terms of national memory and in terms of the spiritual and cultural identity of the Hungarian nation. The proposal also contains various terminology clarifications for the memoirs; it amends its designation to a Hungarian memorial point. With regard to the rules governing the definition of Hungarian memorial points, I would like to point out that the sign will appear in the language of the national minority, not only in Hungarian and English, but also if the memorial point is related to one of Hungary's nationalities. I note here that the rapporteur is considering and probably agrees with the indication from the indigenous nationalities living with us following the submission of the proposal, with the initiative that the legislative designation of the memorial points should be a national memorial point in Hungary. The provision on the good maintenance obligation of the property serving as a national memorial also sets out the obligations to ensure official control and operation in this regard. In the course of the official proceedings, the declaration of the main representative body of the church concerned in Hungary on the issue of faith can not be omitted in view of the separate functioning of the religious communities and the State under the Fundamental Law. The proposal also regulates that any instrument relating to the disposal or loading of national memorial sites should have legal effect only if approved by the Minister. This prevents national memorial sites from being removed from the Hungarian ownership circle and hinders the achievement of the goals set by law. The proposal also regulates the ownership of national memorial sites. In the case of church property, the proposal provides that if the owner of the church organization ceases to function in Hungary for any reason, the ownership of the national memorial site shall be transferred to the internal ecclesiastical legal person designated by the main representative body of the church concerned. [[14.50]] In the case of listening to the church's main representative body, property shall be acquired by the territorially competent internal church legal entity. It is also necessary to regulate ownership or trust activities aimed at the proper use of national and historical memorial sites as well as their possible change. The bill confers on the National Memorial and Cemetery Committee, which is already authorised to grant the status of a memorial place, the power of opinion which the Committee exercises in consultation with the Institute of National Heritage. The amendment avoids the possibility of unappreciating memorial sites, either aesthetically or functionally alien reconstruction and use of the memorial site. As with protected cultural assets, it is also appropriate to grant the Hungarian State the right to buy pre-emptions in respect of national memorial sites in the course of the transfer of ownership for consideration, given that national memorial sites are sites of major importance in the history of the nation, which may be the sites of national state commemoration. Dear Parliament, Finally, the proposal contains a text-pointing to promote educational tasks performed by Pázmány Péter Catholic University in the 16th of 2020 on the free distribution of assets to the Hungarian Catholic Bishops' Conference. in respect of the law. Thank you for listening, I believe, as I have already mentioned this several times in the Expo, the bill that I have just tabled contains elements that my fellow Members can freely vote on without any political bias, thereby supporting the exercise of religious freedom, the community of believers and the performance of public education and vocational training tasks. I'd like your support for this, please. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-11-09-98	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Lajos Mészáros. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-11-09-99	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The activities of the Christian churches have made an enormous contribution to the strengthening and development of Hungary, the Hungarian nation. They play an undeniable role in Hungarian history. Church work is not only religious and moral, but it is also an outstanding activity in the fields of culture-creating and preserving, as well as education, education, health, social and cultural services. Their participation in education is an excellent example of the merits of the churches in Hungary, since the number of students in church kindergartens, primary and secondary schools has doubled since 2010. Since 2010, churches have been strategic partners of the Hungarian government. We can be proud that over the past ten years more than 3,000 churches have been renovated throughout the Carpathian Basin and some 150 new churches have been built with government support. Unfortunately, in Hungary's history, there was a time when churches were subjected to oppression and persecution. The communist regime has deprived the churches of all their wealth, their established institutional system, land, forests and real estate to sustain it. The first steps in the restoration of church property began in the 1980s when the Law on freedom of conscience and religion was adopted, under which the autonomy of churches was restored. The churches could claim their property illegally taken in the socialist era and claim compensation for it. The compensation started in the course of the system change only partially returned some of their assets through a lengthy, long process. Dear Parliament, The bill before us is part of this process. To date, there are municipal or state-owned buildings that are currently used for religious or special sacred purposes. One of the objectives of the proposal is to ensure that properties with such a property background are acquired free of charge and free of general traffic tax by church property. On the other hand, according to the bill, it would also be possible for established church maintainers to apply free of charge for the ownership of state and municipal property which hosts the public education institutions they maintain. As a result, it will be possible to participate in the various tendering procedures and facilitate the good management of public education institutions. The bill is intended to address the questions of historical and national memorial sites regarding any change of ownership, which is intended to prevent national memorial sites from being excluded from the Hungarian ownership circle and can continue to fulfil their role. According to the provision, a national memorial can only be owned by the Hungarian State, by a legal person in Hungary or by a Hungarian citizen. If the owner is a religious legal person, but his operation in Hungary is terminated for any reason, the ownership of the national memorial site he owns will be transferred to the church legal person designated by the main representative body of the church in Hungary. This element of the proposal should be highlighted, since our national memorials function as cultural centres of the Hungarian community and play an important role in the free exercise of national self-consciousness and religion. Dear Parliament, In view of what has been said, I would ask my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-11-09-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr László Sebian-Petrovsk. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-11-09-101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In recent years, we have been in a situation quite a few times as we are now, so that there is a bill in front of this House, in which some kind of real estate transfer or real estate planning issues are also or are exclusively involved in the churches, for the churches. In these debates, which I myself have been involved in last year, you have heard DK's opinion and ideas about these things several times, and I will be signing it specifically to Congressman Nacsa. But before we go into this general theoretical framework, let me make a few points on the specific proposal. Just because, on behalf of the rapporteur, Mr Secretary of State has somehow finished his exposé hoping that he can hope to support this proposal regardless of party standing. I would like to reflect on this by saying that there are a lot of rational, forward-looking, useful points in this package of proposals, by the way. Can you argue that churches should be church owned if they were not so far, or that other facilities used for church parishioners should be transferred to church property? I think this is natural, I am surprised that it has not so far been so, and I can also give you detailed rules that are appropriate, appropriate and should be supported in this package of proposals. However, this is not what I would really like to talk about, but that this law also fits into the Church policy of the Orbán government, which I am deeply opposed to, of course, and I must now say why I am against. In all normal-functioning democracies, it is absolutely normal that there is freedom of religion on the one hand, and Mr. State Secretary pointed out this, and I would not argue that this is appropriate, it is normal, it is natural that this is also the case in Hungary. [[15.00]] However, when we talk about the relations between the state and the church, the relations between the churches with the government or the government with the churches, in the last 12 years, there has been a change compared to the previous period, which, in my opinion, is detrimental and not appropriate for a well-functioning democracy, it is not right, it is not right. What do I mean? It is completely natural, good and should be supported that certain state tasks are supported by the Church, and in Hungarian certain roles that the state normally has to resolve, are assumed by the churches or various institutions of the Church. I am thinking about educational institutions, here, too, in the presentation about educational types of tasks, educational, social and cultural institutions and tasks. If the church takes over, if it helps and is good for the local community, then let us be happy about it, then that is right and right. However, over the last 12 years, the role of the state and some decorated churches has gone beyond that, especially the Catholic Church's relationship with the government or the government's church, and this role has gone beyond that. He said, Mr Secretary of State, or perhaps not the Secretary of State, but my fellow Fidesz Member, that government and churches have become strategic partners. I would like to say more: in fact, the churches have become ideological support for your system, the Orbán system. We are primarily talking about the Catholic Church. He's got ideological support, and I'm going to go into detail on what systems and what mechanisms. This is good for you politically and well for the church, because obviously the churches, which have been faced with a decrease in church attendance for decades, are reducing the number of people who are considered to be believers, are not able to report a declining role in their own activities, but rather a role preservation. (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Why is this good for the government? It is obviously good because it provides ideological support for this regime, which likes to take advantage of it. We are talking about a situation, a relationship between the two worlds, in which the value system, the conservative value system, which Fidesz shares, and it believes that this must be pursued and placed at all costs, in the longer term, as much as possible. In this task, the churches are absolutely playmates of the government, and the government, with proposals of this type, which are before us, helps the churches to play this type of role. I can't approve of that, obviously I can't support it. What exactly am I thinking? There is a truly exclusive example of this whole circle, a change in the field of education. In the last 12 years, many former municipal, state public education institutions, and even preschools, have gone to church treatment and church operation. This process is taking place and is now being analysed by educational researchers. However, in my opinion, this is harmful. I'll tell you why. I understand, of course, that the government will benefit from being an ideologically close maintainer of schools, kindergartens, secondary schools, from which those who may go to ecclesiastical universities will also grow out as students in the future, I understand that part of the middle class on which Fidesz relies and which represents the Fidesz voting base is beneficial for this, but everyone else in this country is the victim of this system. [[Nacsa Lawrence: No!]] Actually, that's the way it is. Education researchers today say that I quote that the church assisted segregation encouraged by the state is taking place in these schools. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] That's how it happens. This means, in particular, that in these earlier, typically municipal, public schools adopted by the church, there will be a segregational education. This means that these will typically be the elite schools on the ground, typically these will be the schools of the emerging middle class, which means that typically Roma students do not show up here, typically state-educated ones cannot come here. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Why shouldn't she?]] , all kinds of administrative and other ways to prevent these types of mix-ups. Once again, I say to the local elite, which is typically the elite, supported by Fidesz and operating as a Fidesz server, that's good, but it's not good for anyone else in society. It is also an important point in this matter that these ecclesiastical institutions and church schools manage more money than public and municipal schools, so it is not surprising that they often provide better quality services on the ground than the state and municipal reserve. We have often debated this at committee meetings with Mr Semjén, State Secretary, where the government has argued that state schools actually receive exactly as much money as church schools and vice versa. We know that this is not the case, and we also know that the rules are in place to finance church schools in such a way that it is not possible to see exactly what and how much it is spent on those schools, so that it is not possible to show very easily how this is done in black and white on paper at the end, so it should be shown that there is also a difference in funding for the benefit of church schools. One word, like a hundred: there is a special area, education, in which we see many examples that have a negative impact on society, in connection with the state functions given to the church, that large masses cannot benefit from this. It can be analysed that elite education today is basically conducted in church schools, mainly in the countryside, and there are certain elements of this which you will list as positive, but I must nevertheless look at the fact that these institutions are open to a wide range. No, they're not open. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Yes!]] If I could reflect on the specific proposal, I would just like to highlight two little things. One is that, although the Secretary of State has indicated, there is indeed a condition in the proposal that will happen if the property, which is now being used by the church, but is not owned by it, goes into church property, and then the church ceases, let's say, that educational, social activity and thus goes back to the municipality. But I don't see any guarantee that if, in the meantime, the church didn't use that property properly, took credit for it, let the building crumble and list it, so the point is that it's not the same property in value, it doesn't go back to the municipality as it originally did, so what? Should the church then take any guarantee, pay any compensation to the local government, or simply take up a lot of loans and then return them? My other problem is, if I understand the proposal correctly, that these property elements are transferred to church property by the municipalities that are now owners of this property, so that in the property of the municipalities there are these properties, without any compensation or any kind of compensation, they just lose these properties. At a time when the municipalities have been bleeding out by the government for years now, when, anyway, all municipalities are looking for potential sources of income in their own budget, in their own assets, in this situation, to take such a step to take this property away from the municipalities without any compensation and to give it to the churches, I do not think that this is the right move or, more precisely, to put it in a different way, to put it positively for the municipalities in any way, raises the need for some kind of compensation or some kind of compensation. Let me give you a piece of data at the end. Only until this year, 53 properties have been transferred to the churches by the government. 53 pieces, this is worth HUF 3 billion if I look at the book value. In total, we are talking about 113 properties if we look at the last few years, so 53 of them this year and the previous years together with 113. So we're talking about dozens of properties that are now crawling from state property to church property in recent years. So the kind of problem I mentioned in most of my speech is that kind of close, interrelated, interest-driven cooperation between the government and certain historical churches, which can be proven by the fact that it is well documented for the churches to take over dozens of properties, to get into their own property. [[15.10]] I understand that this is politically rewarding for you, of course I understand that, but the reality is that this proposal is detrimental to the broad social masses, and it is not good in this respect. Even if, and let me finish with this, I turn back to my first sentence, if there are elements of this proposal that we can and can support from the point of view of operation in a number of operational, practical or practical terms. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2022-11-09-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Harrach, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2022-11-09-103	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I can safely say that the amendment before us is a good job. When did a change go well? If you deal with problems encountered in the implementation of the law. I do not wish to argue with my fellow Member who spoke before me, but these are very practical issues, and there is no ideology in this. Let's see, before I go to the specific questions, what are the two specific situations that have led the government to change, and the maintenance of which can be an ongoing problem! One is that the public service activity operated by the maintenance of the ecclesiastical legal person is carried out in a state or municipal property. Imagine the situation where a development is to be carried out in the institution, then there are conciliation obligations that hinder this. The real estate transfer is specifically intended to ensure that the public institution operated by the church legal person can function smoothly and well. And the fact that it appears in this context that all this real estate transfer takes place as long as this institution operates means that it is not about enrichment, it is about increasing the privileged position of the churches, but it is about making the institution work well. The other particular situation that this proposal is dealing with is the problem with memorials. Then, if a church legal person owns many of these monuments, perhaps I could say the greatest, for example, Pannonhalma, in case, of course, not in the case of the example mentioned, but in some other case, if the activity of that monk order in Hungary ceases, then what about this church-owned national memorial place? This amendment is about protecting the memorial site. You could say it's not for the church, it's for the memorial. However, let us add that this amendment not only addresses two specific situations but also protects three serious values. What are these values? The first is indeed the ecclesiastical legal person, who maintains a public institution, who helps it function, so this is in the interest of the activities of the whole society, which is a serious value, and which is essentially in the interest of taking over the public task. The second, which he protects as a value, is the protection of this public task, not the maintenance, but the public task, its safe provision, and the third, the protection of the aforementioned memorial sites. So when we say that we are talking about amending the law concerning churches, most concrete practical measures are not for the benefit of the churches, but for the benefit of the whole society, the community. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to talk to you about a few details. The first and very important issue, with which even my opposition fellow Member agrees, is that the property used for the purpose of faith, which was originally built for this purpose, must naturally be church-owned. How did this happen? We all know what the right of the Lord meant, they built a church, a chapel, anything, and in the time of Mátyás Rákosi they ceased to be the right of the Lord, more precisely, to enter the state. I think no one can object to the fact that these properties should be transferred to churches with the right purpose of faith. There is another category when it comes to public service, which I was trying to detail earlier. Indeed, if the activity of that ecclesiastical legal person ceases, then what should be done with the task that the church has taken over and which we have an obligation to ensure further? Then, as has been mentioned several times, the church's highest-level body, we could say here, perhaps, the church authority will own and dispose of this property and the institution operating on the property, and he will appoint another church legal person to continue it. And then there's a question that could be presented with a specific example. What if there are not enough children born in that settlement, and this institution can no longer function, as an educational institution, but this must be closed? So the thing is, you're transferring ownership, you're going back to whoever you're from, state or municipal property. This means that real estate benefits will last as long as the activity continues. So once again, we are not talking about enriching churches, we are talking about ensuring that the public service is done. Of course, this also applies to new assignments. Then let us move on to the amendment of the law on the protection of cultural heritage, which is about memorial sites. We have already heard that a terminology change is also taking place here: the Hungarian memoranda, as the term "National Remembrance" would make the three categories of the memorial sites possibly confusing, which is why this was necessary. This amendment states that the law on the status, maintenance and operation of memorial sites includes control, that, in the case of ecclesiastical property, the church authority must be naturally involved in this control. The issue of disposal is an important issue. In general, this amendment does not support the disposal of national memorial sites. If it is necessary for any reason, it is subject to a ministerial license. I believe that this is also a guarantee, and that it must be left in Hungarian ownership. What if the case mentioned above is also valid in this case, i.e. if the ecclesiastical legal person can no longer function for some reason? Then there is the obligation to maintain the church authority, who then takes action in his own way. I believe that these amendments, as I have just said, are ideologically free, serve public goals, and in this sense, my first sentence is true that this is a well done amendment, and I propose that everyone vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-09-104	Thank you very much, Congressman Péter Harrach. I now give the floor to Mrs Zita Gurmai, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. [[15.20]]
u2022-11-09-105	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! I think I can agree with Peter Harrach's three points: the protection of values, the protection of public tasks and safe care and the protection of memorial sites. But let us also consider exactly what the main points in the legislative amendment proposal before us are giving us the opportunity to do. It allows more property to be owned by the church, preferably free of charge, and preferably so that it can remain in their possession forever. Well, the fact that churches come into the possession of churches is obvious, but if we go into the details, then there's something to talk about. We're talking about a large amount of free real estate transfers. In the 11 years until 2021, 118 properties have been transferred to the property of the churches, but this process has accelerated this year, and until September, 53 new properties have been transferred and according to the information of the Hungarian National Asset Manager, and further 113 properties are discussed. This overall means the transfer of a lot of real estate. It's a high-value free allowance. The value of the property transferred so far is estimated to be around HUF 30 billion, according to a 2021 summary, the sum of the funds granted to churches under various headings exceeds HUF 1000 billion over the last ten years. With the transfer of additional real estate assets, another ten billion will migrate to the churches. Of course, not everyone's lucky. It is feared that this proposal will only speed up and simplify the government's ability to give to churches and church persons that are important to it. Let us remember the persecution of Gábor Iványi and his church, when, not only did the above generosity not have its character, but on the contrary, the inability of the person and church engaged in the charitable activity took place. The transferred property can practically remain in church ownership forever. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] Obviously, there was talk of sacral buildings. In these cases, if the church abandons religious activity, the owning church itself can decide to whom, more specifically, which other church to pass the property on to. The present amendment also allows real estate related to public education and public education, and the Secretary of State has also stated that real estate itself should never be restored to state or municipal property. And we're not talking about sacral buildings, churches anymore, we're talking about school buildings and other properties that can be used for other purposes. What is the purpose of the amendment? It is appropriate that, in the case of sacral property, the proposal also aims to ensure the preservation of the religious role and nature of the property, that this is absolutely to be supported, and this is an important and high social interest. However, there is a question as to why they want to do so by handing it over to eternal property. It is also appropriate to provide the churches with appropriate buildings for public education, public education or the provision of charitable and social activities. But the fact that this has to be guaranteed through a free transfer of real estate is no longer necessarily considered necessary. However, if that's the way it is, I think it's worth moving on. If churches can receive an incredibly valuable wealth because of their important activities in society, then there is no reason for the government to treat other organizations equally generously. Creating people's social security is also a priority and an extremely important activity from a social point of view. Since the amendment of the social law puts charities before the state in order to create social security, and civil society organisations have an amazing job in this task, it is legitimate that civil society organisations and foundations that provide assistance to those in need of social protection should also have free access to the property needed to carry out their task, so should they have real estate. Free property should be provided, for example, by organisations working in the care of the homeless or assisting those in need. In fact, the very important task of life of faith is, among other things, to protect people's mental health and stability. To think about this, it would also be possible to have real estate assets for organisations that help people, for example, to deal with problems in the LGBTQ society or to deal with the suffering of domestic violence. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2022-11-09-106	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai. I now give the floor to Mr Brenner Koloman, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. You have the floor.
u2022-11-09-107	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The freedom of religion is the most favourable basis for civic coexistence. Please allow me, fellow Members, to begin with the statement of Pope Francis. Of course, Jobbik supports the bill before us as a political party on a Christian-social basis, because it is quite clear that both religious communities and established churches have a prominent role in Hungarian society. In addition, and here let me refer to Huntington, religion is very important in man's life, even in the 21st century. In this Europe, unfortunately, it is also becoming increasingly unreligious in society. Religion, in addition to our mother tongue, is the second most important factor in each person's identity. It is therefore quite clear that the religious, educational, charitable, social and cultural activities of the established churches are of paramount importance to Hungarian society, the Hungarian nation, but I also think we can say that it is also important for Europe. In this context, I would like to point out that, in agreement with Mr Secretary of State, who stressed with his expozee that such a question should at least represent the national unity, in this context I would like to ask Mr State Secretary and our fellow government representatives that it is really important for us to establish a national unity on this issue, too, if we have a continuous and honest dialogue on these issues with all political forces, and continuously, as it avoids party political battles on matters that are truly important and require national unity. I also agree that no one asked the established Hungarian churches in 1948, in the days of the establishment of the communist one-party dictatorship, about their desire to keep these assets, property, but was taken away from them; and morally, morally, morally, it is quite clear that it was necessary to resolve this situation after the change of regime. While this intention is absolutely correct, it is also very important that the bill before us, which has been drawn from the experience of the transfer of wealth so far, seeks to help this process. However, since the majority of my fellow Members have also spoken about a kind of comprehensive church policy issues in this main speaker group, let me add a few words to this, since I am here, on the one hand, with the criticism of the kind of education policy or the educational institutions with church reservations, to my fellow Member DK, since an institution with church reservations clearly provides a very high-quality education for the fullness of Hungarian citizens living in that settlement or those settlements in general. That is a different question, and I would like to make a critical comment of a party political nature, so that, as a whole, it is quite questionable from our point of view, too, that strict party political considerations should not be included in church politics. [[15.30]] Unfortunately, if we look back on our election campaign, then it has happened, especially in my church, in the Catholic Church, I do not say that it is universal, but there were priests who, in this particular situation, did not, in our view, carry out appropriate propaganda. So once again, I am not talking about this being a comprehensive issue, but the fact is that, in our view, it should be added to the transfer of wealth, on the one hand, by giving the necessary capital and support to the churches. Therefore, it must be avoided that either these churches, other properties, or educational institutions, remain empty for a long time, or that they may become degraded. Therefore, the support necessary for their maintenance and for our activities, which is of particular importance to society, must also be added to this. Here, for example, let me mention a point where the wages of those working in ecclesiastical institutions are slightly lower than those of a graduate, whether it be a church or a secular person. I'd like to talk about the lowest level in these institutions. Sometimes, unfortunately, these colleagues still work with very low salaries. It is the responsibility of the State to indicate here what part of the expenditure in rem should be spent on wages, and I think that this should be thought out and fine-tuned within the system. On the other hand, allow me also to mention, and here I would like to quote the Bishop of Szombathely, János Székely, that it is the truth here, and here I am obviously talking about the amendment of social law in this context; and not I, but the Bishop, that on the one hand, the humanity of a society can best be measured by how he treats the elderly, the poor, the weak, and the sick, the Bishop Székely XVI. The Holiness of Pope Benedict. I think that if a bishop of the county already expresses concerns about the amendment of the social law of the Fidesz government, so this criticism does not come from a person who does not come from a party such as Jobbik, which is a political party on a Christian-social basis, then it is worth considering the statements that it is the 21st. In the first century, society has been operating differently than before. We are aware that the Bible also called on the individual to do a decent job. It's the individual's responsibility. The Bible calls on children to care for elderly or sick parents. It calls on ecclesiastical communities to take care of poor, elderly and sick members of the community as far as possible. It's all right. However, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that in Europe these decades are no longer the same big family as in the past, where we have actually taken it for granted that we care for our elderly countrymen. This is how I grew up, by the way, that we had two old Tantis with us until they died, and, of course, we treated them, that was natural at the time. But at present, it is practically the one-generational family model that characterizes the majority of Hungarian society, and so now, in this social reality, we need to find solutions to social challenges that we believe are worthy of as Hungarian citizens deserve in the 21st century. 1st century in a Member State of the European Union. I think it is very important, therefore, that this asset relief and this state support should not make the established Hungarian churches vulnerable, because it is very important that they perform their service to a high standard for Hungarian society, believers and non-believers, as I have already explained in relation to educational institutions, that this is the case, but in return, the Hungarian state power, the Fidesz Hungarian state power, should not expect them to do things that would bring these issues to a party political level, because this and the bill before us deserve to be truly national unity. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of this, the Jobbik Group will, of course, support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2022-11-09-108	Thank you very much, Congressman Brenner Koloman. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now time for a voice from the committee representing the nationalities to be heard. I give the floor to the Polish ethnic advocate Rónayné Slaba Ewa Maria, who explains the first sentences of his speech in his ethnic language and then translates them into Hungarian. You have the floor. [[Dr. Rónayné Slaba Ewa Maria: I just can't handle it. He's putting the microphone on.]] After a little technical break, we listen with interest.
u2022-11-09-109	[[???Köszönöm szépen, a segítséget is. Szanowny Panie Marszałku, szanowni posłowie, szanowny Panie Sekretarzu Stanu, witam wszystkich bardzo serdecznie w imieniu Komisji Rzeczników ds. Narodowości oraz własnym. Panie Marszałku, dziękuję za udzielenie mi głosu.???]] Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Allow me to welcome you on behalf of the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities and myself. As a spokesperson invited by the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities and as a member of the Sub-Committee on Public Education, Culture and Church Affairs of the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities, allow T/1785 on the amendment of certain laws affecting churches. I would like to state our position with regard to bill No 1. At its meeting on 8 November 2022, the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities decided to hold a detailed debate in accordance with Article 32 of the HSZ. § (2) and formed an opinion on the resolution of the House Rule 36. Paragraph 5 of this Article. The committee supported the legislative package with 12 unanimous votes, which, among other things, amends a number of relevant legislation on ecclesiastical and cultural matters. Of these, the two amendments to the law most affecting the ethnicities of Hungary: the first is the 1997 CXXIV on the material conditions for the religious and public activities of the churches. Act LXIV of 2001 on the protection of cultural heritage. amendment of the law. In particular, it is to be welcomed that, in the case of public education and training institutions maintained by the ecclesiastical maintainer, the government intends to grant these maintainers the ownership of municipal-owned buildings and equipment as long as public education and vocational training are carried out. [[15.40]] In general, all 13 nationalities in Hungary play an important role as an integral part of the consciousness of religion and ethnic identity. The religions of the Hungarian nationalities, regardless of the denomination, are all related to Christianity. In the life of nationalities, churches really have a well - decorated community-building and consensual power. The importance of this is also easy to perceive from the Hungarian side, as Christian churches, for example, play a very important role in the life of Hungarian communities across the border, and the financial and moral support of the Hungarian state falls on very fertile soil in parts of the Carpathian Basin outside the mother country. The situation is similar in Hungary when the Hungarian state supports the religious life and institutions of indigenous nationalities in Hungary, also exemplary and generously. As a Polish, let me illustrate the importance of ethnic ecclesiastical life in the village of Derenk, established by the Polish settlers in the vicinity of Aggtelek, following the Rákóczi freedom struggle. In a short time the church of the Polish-speaking community was also built, and later the village school was also built. In the absence of this, the Polish community, present as an isolated constituencies, could soon have dissolved in the surrounding Hungarian medium, lost its Polish identity and 18. The archaic language of the century, which is still the 20th century. The village was flourishing in the first century. We therefore welcome the free ownership by the state or municipality of the institutions subject to a church reservation and the fact that the time limit for the transfer of property has also been set. In addition to the words of praise, I would also like to mention a compromise on the part of nationalities. In connection with the amendment of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, it was noted at the Committee's meeting that it is perhaps not a very fortunate new name, instead of the so-called "national commemorative point" (the "Hungarian Memorial Point"), as this can be interpreted as a discriminatory reduction. As stated in the Fundamental Law, 13 Hungarian nationalities are state-creating factors, citations:. We declare that the nationalities living with us are part of the Hungarian political community and state-creating factors. The National Creed. The rapporteur, however, stated at the committee's meeting that the amendment of the name merely serves as an easier distinction from the national memorial site and does not mean a change in content. In the context of the legislative amendment, allow me to draw your attention to a possible memorial or memorial site in the future, which is also symbolic for the Slavic-speaking Hungarian nationalities. This is the Zalavári Historical Memorial Park, which has been affected by a number of previous ethnic spokespersons. The two apostles, Saint Cyril and Saint Methodius, who are regarded by the Slavic nations as their own church, the creator of their own writing, are located in Zalavar, where in 1985 the Bulgarian state and the ELTE jointly erected a statue in honor of Saint Cyril and Saint Method, in recognition of the missionary work performed here. Holy II. Besides St. Benedict, Pope John Paul declared the two saints patron saints of Europe. Further monuments were later set up in the memorial park, the Salzburg memorial proclaiming the right to establish a new church, and then the monument of the Slovenians in 2005, while the construction of the monument of Slovaks began in 2007. In 2009, on the 1000th anniversary of the founding of the county in Szent István, the General Assembly of Zala County decided to commemorate the Millennium in the most dignified place, the first historic centre of the county. We respectfully ask the National Assembly to examine, if possible, the possibility of declaring the Zalavár Historical Memorial Park a national, historic memorial place or a memorial point, which could thus be located in a worthy place on the historical map of Hungary. And so it would be important for us Poles living here and for those living in Poland to declare Derenk a ruin settlement a national or historical memorial place or a memorial point, the importance of which is reflected in the fact that he has already decided to declare it a Polish memorial place in the decision of the National Polish Municipality. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, T/1785 on the amendment of certain laws affecting churches The Committee on Nationalities in Hungary welcomes the amendment No 1 and proposes that it be adopted. Thank you for your attention. Dziekuję za uwagę. [[Applause.]]
u2022-11-09-110	Thank you very much for the Polish ethnic advocate Rónayné Slaba Ewa Maria. Dear Parliament, We have a two-minute speech. I give the floor to Congressman Michael Balla, Fidesz.
u2022-11-09-111	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, I have just heard thoughts in the main speakerial round that I would like to briefly reflect on a few points in two minutes. I would first like to point out that this law has a lot of positive effects that I could even give examples of from my constituency. In my own settlement, where I live, the Archbishop was able to build a seven-group kindergarten and nursery, almost a whole new one, so that the church gave us the property where we could implement it, and we were able to deliver it about six months ago. On the other hand, this law also concerns matters of nationality, and it is unthinkable today, and it may be a great help to those settlements or to those ethnic communities as well as to the schools in Nézsa, the local Slovak nationality government, and to the local government in its building, it will be able to implement the improvements that 150 children who go to this school give them the best possible conditions. I therefore believe that this law can help precisely on issues where the real estate or property, property transfers and assistance measures can help precisely in the area of real estate improvements that may not be achieved by the local government, but by the local minority self-government, not by the church, but by the local government, if this can be resolved more easily and easily because of this law or its possibilities. So I thank the Secretary of State very much, and as my fellow Member Harrach has said, that this amendment can improve itself on a number of issues that can help precisely these matters. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-09-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. The speeches will be announced in advance, first by Mrs Mátrai Márta, Member, Fidesz. [[15.50]]
u2022-11-09-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In my speech, I would like to confirm the thoughts expressed by Secretary of State Miklós Soltész, as T/1785. In the legislative proposal No. 13, the legislator intends to settle the ownership of church property under Article XXXII of 1991. By law, the acquisition of state-owned property has already begun. The continuation of this process is justified by the already cited law and by the related 1997 CXXIV. Act LXIV of 2001 on the material conditions of the religious and public activities of the churches. Amendment to some of the provisions of the Cultural Heritage Act. XXXII of 1991 The primary purpose of the amendment of the Act is to allow them to be taken into church ownership even after the implementation of the Church Law, as regards buildings and buildings directly used for sacral purposes, which have remained state-owned even after the long decades since the commencement of the acquisition of these properties, since the maintenance of the State ownership interest was already reduced. There are sacral, state-owned properties that form state or municipal property even on the basis of the so-called favourite relationship. The privilege given by the ecclesiastical authority to certain persons or groups of persons of the Lordship, the jus cartridgeatus, as the patron, the holder of the right, may have appointed or maintained a church or a monastery on his land. CHAPTER XXI Indeed, it is timely to return these still state-owned church properties to the churches on an antagonistic property basis. Submitted on 14/A. §2 of the Act allows churches to acquire religious property and complexes of state-owned buildings built directly for sacral and religious purposes until 31 December 2026. By extending the deadline, the legislator wishes to indicate the historical, valuable cultural creation and preservation of churches and recognises their outstanding role in the social, cultural and health field, as Mr State Secretary has described in detail. The extension of the deadline also means that the state considers the revitalization of churches to be of paramount importance, taking into account the provisions of our Fundamental Law on the exercise of conscience and freedom of religion and the separation of the state and religious communities. At the same time, this extension of the deadline also allows properties which are part of the shared ownership of a state, partly church-owned property, to be acquired by ecclesiastical property on the basis of the rules of the Civil Code, primarily through the abolition of a community of property in kind. The State shall comply with this requirement within 120 days of the date on which the Church's request to do so is made. The use of the property shall be subject to a contract of use, if it is not possible to terminate the property by natural means. The primary objective of the legislator in this case is also to ensure that the sacred activity can be pursued in a undisturbed manner. State property is not transferred to church property on the basis of a non-reciprocal contract, so the change of ownership is free of charge, and it is registered in the real estate register as it creates ownership in the real estate register under our current legislation. The 1997 CXXIV on the material conditions for the religious and public activities of the churches. The amendment of the law is linked to the law on religious property. The presentation shall be drawn up in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 10. §2 of the Act establishes the right to acquire the property of churches, which is extended to property which can be acquired on the ground of carrying out a public activity carried out by religious communities with legal personality. This provision aims to ensure the protection of the rights of children, pupils and their parents in ecclesiastical, public education and vocational training institutions as long as the maintenance staff in these institutions pursue church, public education and vocational training activities. Submitted on 11/A. § 2 of the Act also seeks to settle the issue of succession. The issue of succession is particularly relevant for real estate which has benefited from EU funding, thus being removed from the public finances system and their operation in Hungary will cease. This is the situation that I would like to list as taxative if the maintenance successor is terminated; the public education or vocational training institution is terminated; the education and training task is terminated; then the maintenance right is transferred to another legal person. So the legislator, as I said, lists and narrows down the titles where the ownership of the ecclesiastical property can be returned to the original owner, the municipality or the State. In the final case, if there is no church successor, get out of church property. The proposal provides for the possibility of recourse to the judicial procedure as a guarantee option for legislation. T/1785. The 2001 LXIV on the protection of cultural heritage is amended. law, which also affects religious sacral places, since the role of these places is of paramount importance in the history of the nation, in its capacity to strengthen national cohesion. The name of the regulation currently in force can be confused with the name of the national memorial and the national commemorative point, so the presentation introduces the name of the Hungarian memorial point. The Hungarian memorial point is a site of decisive importance in relation to the person occupying a prominent place in the universal or national public memory, which is declared a memorial point by the National Memorial and Cegeleti Committee. The Hungarian commemorative point is decided by the committee on the basis of a proposal from the Institute of National Heritage. The scope of the amendment covers historical memorial sites, national and highlighted national memorial sites, and includes sacral memorial sites. The protection and accessibility of national and historical memorial sites is a public interest, involving the state, municipal and religious communities, internal ecclesiastical legal entities, civil society and other organisations. The real estate use of the national memorial site cannot be stopped. The amendment contains provisions of a guarantee nature regarding the protection of memorial sites, so the owner is obliged to take care of the memorial place and its surroundings and to ensure its attendance. This also applies to church - owned memorial sites. Compliance with the obligation of care is controlled only by the authority. Only the Hungarian State, Hungarian legal person or natural person may be the owner of the property which is part of the national memorial site. In order to dispose of the ownership or ownership of the property in the national memorial sites, a ministerial approval is required, and in the case of ecclesiastical property, the position of the main representative body of the church in Hungary is also mandatory. In the case of succession of church property or ownership, property rights may be transferred only to the main body of the church in Hungary or to the internal church person designated by it or to the ecclesiastical legal person. The Hungarian State has the right to pre-empt the property forming a national memorial. The State is not entitled to the right of pre-emption if the property is transferred to a religious legal person or to an internal legal person of the church concerned. T/1785. Recognizing the valuable cultural creation, preservation and transfer work of the churches in Hungarian history, as well as its outstanding services in education, social care and health care, the churches broaden and simplify the possibility of acquiring and succeeding church property. [[16.00]] The legislator intends to complete the acquisition process. The amendments to the proposal are based on the experience of the implementation of the church law so far, and aim to promote the return of their property illegally taken under the communist era, while recognising the historical role of churches today. In view of the above, I would ask my fellow Members to support the law. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-09-114	Thank you very much, Mrs Housekeeper, Congresswoman. Preliminary speaker: Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2022-11-09-115	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, It is strange to be inspired by DK, but the speech by László Sebian-Petrovszki moved me to think about some of the things that I would like to react to, especially because of an alternative reality portrayed by a representative of DK, known for his generally anti-religious and anti-religious outbursts. I mean, you're not known for it, but your entire party is known for it, for example, many of us remember the last election campaign here, when DK candidates' newspapers came into our mailbox as party directors, you obviously know that you're one of the responsible publishers, editors, and in such small corners you've been expressing in a moodful way how much money the churches received this year, what properties were added to the churches. Obviously, there was an anti-church spirit of intent in the campaign as well. But to stay in the 2022 election campaign: from the end of 2021, here is the statement by your spokesperson Balázs Barkóczi, which he stated that the Democratic Coalition would like to warn the Fidesz government that they won't be able to throw money from the joint money for much longer, and that after the next year's election, dense prayer won't save them either. We understand, obviously you were sure that you would win the election, the Hungarian electorate thought this quite differently, but that they call the tax payer's support, which they receive from the Hungarian taxpayers for the social involvement of the churches, on the basis of the decision of the Parliament, on the basis of our budget decision, and that the churches are therefore threatened with accountability, but we are used to it, there is no problem with you having the churches accounted for as well. Just to put it in context: this is the party that submitted last year to remove the confessional secret, which even the Nazis dared not touch, but DK is so brave that, on the basis of a consensus that has existed for centuries in such sacred internal affairs of the churches, with one pen stroke, a bill... I would add that the non-present Dialogue also joined this excellent proposal last summer. Speaking of dialogue, let us make it clear that we are here at the trial of a fundamentally important bill. I will not go into the details because the Secretary of State and my fellow Members have done so, but Momentum, Dialogue and LMP do not bother to come in and negotiate such matters in Parliament, which is their place of work and for which they are paid. They are therefore not represented at all in this debate, either as lead speakers or as speakers. But Mr Sebian-Petrovsk also spoke about education. In one sentence, he said that there were too many church schools, and then in the other sentence he said that it was not accessible to anyone and how closed it was. Let's be clear, is there too much now, or is there no access? It is worth staying on a track, honourable Member. If you look at it, unfortunately, we do not yet have the latest census data, the census that is currently taking place, but if you look at the census before that, 55 percent of the Hungarian people claim to belong to some kind of church, the number of children attending church school is 15 percent. You think it's a lot, and I think it's very little, there's a lot to argue about, but there's no way it's going to reach the 55 percent level of those who describe themselves as parishioners, members of some religion in the census. So they could rightly claim that they want to send their children to church schools according to their own denomination. I say this even if it was 6.3 percent in 2010, in the last year of your government, and we managed to get it up to 15.5 percent. Just as there has been an increase in social care, child protection and even in other areas, there has been a slight increase in church social participation in higher education and health care over the past period. We are also used to you talking about churches and charities in a disparaging manner, since you do not acknowledge the great social organization and community organization work that these organizations are doing, and you would deny every penny, every penny, every penny of these organizations and our historic churches. Now, there's more talk in Parliament and in the press about educators' protests. I was a student at a protest like this, and that protest was organized because you didn't fulfill your commitments to church schools on the basis of the contract. I was there as a student at that demonstration, honourable Member, about the rightful, legal and legal resources being given to church schools. And the Constitutional Court had to fix you up because they refused to pay church schools their own salaries. So let's just be clear that he talks about the question of ecclesiastical schools from a group that he condemned in the Constitutional Court government because they did not pay church schools the funds they owed them, which would have cost teachers' salaries, students' meals, the purchase of new chalks and the overhead. So if it were up to you and the Constitutional Court didn't fix you, then in church schools, these teachers wouldn't get paid, for those students, for us, I was a church school student, and they wouldn't heat up your classroom, and they wouldn't heat up your gym, honourable Member. So if it were up to you, that would have been the case. Do you remember, honourable Member, when you protested that donations were taxed? Neither did I, because you didn't do that. You have taxed the donations to the charities! A tax has been imposed on a person who, out of good intentions and good will, wishes to donate to someone whose main occupation is, by the way, to charity organisations in full - time jobs and volunteers in order to help people in need. Where were you then, honourable Member? Where were your partymates then? Where was the big protest then? Let's put things in order because your church policy is withdrawal, taxation, pressure on the shoreline, so it could be described by those words, not by mutual respect cooperation, which, I think, represents our side, because we respect the work of churches, acknowledge the work of churches, and help them in comparison to our opportunities, because we see that there is added value in society, if it is education, if it is belief, if it is community organisation, if it is social care or health care. There is added value in the role of churches, and we therefore support it, honourable Member. I also wanted to respond to Mr Brenner's sentences, thanking the Jobbik for their support, if that is the case with regard to the law. But he said that the transfers of wealth; do not make the aids vulnerable to the churches. Ladies and gentlemen, Churches will be less vulnerable to support and wealth transfer, either to politics or to the state or to anyone, because if they get the building that they can have, which is not someone else's property, so why would it be in their interest to do renovations on it, for example, to use it in many church schools, if László Sebian-Petrovski were in such a thing at some point in his life, then he would experience it, for example, by making a profit by giving the gym to a prom, a post-baptial dinner, a wedding, and so on. Because their own, they have the building, they can make use of it in this way, they can acquire, in addition to the main goal, income that reduces vulnerability, which is precisely financial independence, which can then be spent on their primary goals, education, faith life, and so on. That's why we need to transfer this property. And also because your spiritual ancestors took everything from them, active assets and passive assets. Because in 1950, honourable Member, the churches had the active property elements, there was a mill, there was a forest, there was a wine cellar, and so on, which were not here to know what kind of landlord favors the bishops exercise, they were to finance their primary activity towards the needy, towards the believers, towards the students. Only after 90 they did not get them back, only the huge ten-, twenty-, thirty thousand square meters of buildings destroyed in a state of decay and renovation to be renovated. That is why we need this, honourable Member. And as long as it's up to us, we're not just gonna bring in this law, we're gonna bring in a next one and a follower, because we want the community involvement of the churches to grow, because we see value in it. [[16.10]] Let's forget it, and I think that once and for all we should do this world-view neutral, I do not know what kind of artificial words, because there is no such thing, honourable Member. Everyone acts out of personal conviction, everyone tries to act on their values and conscience. I hope that it is the same in politics, even on your side. I hope that we are trying to make decisions here in Parliament on the basis of our values. For a long, long time, you have made clear your vote and your values, in addition to the need for churches, the priests should remain silent and go back. You said you'd get the priests out of school, honourable Member. Their regularly hired prime minister said that they were expelling the priests from school. You said there was no need for that. Your values or your lack of value are there so that the churches do not speak, take a role, maintain a child protection network, foster care network, social care or a school, but they do well in the sacristy and do whatever they want there. This is your great sense of democracy. We disagree. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-11-09-116	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. Congressman László Sebian-Petrovszki, DK.
u2022-11-09-117	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Congressman Nacsa told us to fix things and I literally wrote it down. All right, let's get this sorted out. One is that I am very pleased that you have said that you do not support a world-neutral education. Of course, that's what I'm talking about. The whole point of their church policy is to transfer a lot of resources to the churches, real estates and the like, and let them do a lot of things because they're ideologically the support of our system, the support of the Orbán system for you. It's just that we're against it, and we don't want it, and we're never gonna support it. That's exactly what this is about! The church that doesn't lie before you in this matter, see Gábor Iványi and his church, then we push it out of church status, then it won't be an established church. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: He's got two billion!]] [[Nacsa Lőrinc: He's got two billion!]] He doesn't get the funding, he can go to court, and he still doesn't get the billions. (Lőrinc Nacsa: He received two billion!) What he was talking about was what DK wanted with the confessional secrets, so he wanted, gentlemen, that the discovery of paedophiles had not taken place in the Catholic Church to this day. You can say that we have something to do with this, and then the Catholic Church solves it, but in a number of countries in Europe the government has forced it, often the government has formed committees that have examined this issue, and the end of it has been accountability and tidying up in pedophiles cases. It didn't happen! This is what we have put forward, indeed, that three years in prison may be given to a priest who, under a confessional secret, learns that there has been sexual abuse in his church and does not report it. That's what I'm talking about! In this case, yes, in this case we hold that yes, the confessional secret should not apply to this. That's the important thing. And the fact that we are talking about the taxpayers' forint is, yes, the taxpayers' forint goes to the church, and it supports your system, in other words: Fidesz will benefit from the taxpayer's forint at the end. We deny that, I'm sorry, but that's the case.
u2022-11-09-118	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Károly Kontra for two minutes, Fidesz.
u2022-11-09-119	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, As Parliamentary Representative of the 2nd Constituencies of Veszprém County, I also support the adoption of the bill as a parliamentary representative of Tihany. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-11-09-120	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application, and therefore the general debate is closed. I give the floor to State Secretary Miklós Soltés, who wishes to respond as rapporteur to what has been said in the debate.
u2022-11-09-121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the comments made in the debate on both the pro-government and the opposition side. It is a pity that some of them left earlier, because if they had listened not to my introductory thoughts or the expo, but to the pro-government representatives, they would have understood the essence of this bill. But neither the MSZP nor the representatives of Jobbik, who took part in the debate, are not here, or, I add, as Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa said, many did not take up the debate, so Momentum, Dialogue, LMP, let's say, they clearly stand behind DK, they stand behind the Gyurcsány Party, he is also the boss of church affairs, it is obvious, and they do not have a free opinion or a separate opinion. I felt, for the first time, or even now, that DK was a shadow of itself. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] Literally, because if you think about whether a few months ago or the election campaign, let's say so, in heat, but before the election campaign, they also made statements against churches, believers, church schools, and the government, which went all the way to the hanging, then there was a quite normal debate about their part. I can even say that they have not produced the legacy of January 1, 1948, which meant the confiscation of all religious, social and educational assets, the persecution of priests, pastors and monks. So, compared to that, you really have to say that you're not in the shadows, you've had a pretty normal debate or you've been canceled. However, it is also necessary to say to László Sebian-Petrovszki, after you represented DK, so please give it to your otherwise interesting shadow minister of education... who, I understand, has small or bigger issues with the police, but, as a shadow minister of education, wants to raise our children, our young people, at least influence the direction of education, so I believe the history of church schools. However, I admired his two thoughts that he dared to say that he might receive from his boss, that there are many rational points in the return of churches, that we fully agree, and that churches have a role in social and public education. Once again, this is very brave of you, since the position of DK, the majority of the left, is far from reflecting this. In addition, let me respond mainly to your thoughts, but obviously, Mrs Zita Gurmai is here now, and I will also respond to her thoughts, although I think that their opinions are similar, as I understand them or have tried to listen to their speeches. One is that when you talk about ideological support or playmates, did you think about how many protests László Donáth or even Gábor Iványi was there? Have you thought about that? where their speech was not really about their church leaders, their rhetorical abilities, much more about their political attitude and harsh accusations, and it appeared at your protests, meetings, if any, at their events and celebrations. I'll just add it quietly, if I remember correctly, Gábor Iványi you even had a candidate for president of the shadow republic. [[László Sebian-Petrovszki: He was an official candidate!]] as head of the church. So I'd like to think about that, when you accuse Fidesz-KDNP, the government, of saying once again what you said, as an ideological support, as playmates, of the churches, you might want to think a little bit about what kind of adjectives you should use for these two church leaders I mentioned. He also talked about segregation schools. It's just not true! You just don't know the country. He does not know how many schools maintained by either the Catholic Church, its monks, or bishops, or the Reformed brothers, the Lutherans, the Baptists, or any other sects, including the Pentecostians, maintain religious educational and educational institutions where Roma children are mostly involved. You know what's sad about that? [[16.20]] Only for the sake of historical loyalty, Greek Catholics had a wonderful school in the Nyíres, which, by the way, was examined as a result of a great EU study, called segregation. As a result, it became... [[To Dr. Gurmai Zita:]] Feel free to take these sentences and send them to your girlfriends out to Brussels. [[Dr. Gurmai Zita: No!]] So here's what happened. We are talking about a brilliantly functioning school, operated by the Greek Catholics, possessed by all sorts of controls, and then accused of segregation, after all, the Greek Catholic Church decided to thank and return. And do you know who protested about that, by the way? Roma parents, gypsy women and gypsy uncles. Why? Because they got their kids in such a good place, they were raised under conditions that were unique. What did your political community do? He ruined a school like this. So when we talk about segregation, look on one side, please see what is in the world, what is in Europe, and on the other side see what the churches are doing to really help in catching up where there are very serious life situations. In addition, the Member of the Council has a bit of an interest in funding, it is amazing. So go back to Gyula Horn and see what Gyula Horn signed at the time in the Vatican or Holy See Agreement. Since then, this case law has been followed by each government as far as possible. Let's say the government led by Ferenc Gyurcsány didn't, because he was the one who didn't give the wages and support of the teachers of the church schools, he took billions of forints from them. But I would add that this practice, signed by Gyula Horn in the Holy See Agreement, is followed by everyone, even at a level that we have not only been referring to the Catholic Church for a long time, but also to every church that has been institutional supporters. I said that we did, because now, in the framework of individual agreements and the Church Law, everyone gets the same support and funding opportunity as previously provided by the Vatican or otherwise known as the Holy See Agreement. So don't ask us to account for something that isn't true, because support for church schools always depends on what supplement both state and municipal subsidies have given over the past year, and this supplement will be given to the end of church schools, period. You should learn that someday, and you should accept it, just because you always bring it up, and you never want to understand it, or you have to say that you're not telling the truth. But if we follow the logic, honourable Member, that if there is more for church schools, then if they get a local government, why would they live there? Then they'll spend the money on it, then they'll renovate it, then it'll be nice, then XXI. It's gonna be from the century. Do you envy them, by the way? I don't understand your logic. Plus, let me tell you another set of numbers because you said that church schools aren't open to everyone. I'm sorry, they're protesting on one side to make it as much as possible, and on the other, they're saying it's not open. But how unopened it is and how much demand there is in the country, let me just give you three numbers. In 1990, when your communist regime ended [[László Sebian-Petrovszki: I was 12 years old, I'm just saying!]] Then 3,000 children attended the ten church schools I mentioned, eight Catholics, one Jewish church and one Reformed. When their communist regime ended, the rebuilding of church schools began, and by 2010, the number of children went up, from kindergarten to 110 thousand until the end of high school. Now this figure has doubled since 2010, until 2021, so it has doubled in 11 years, even more than doubled, because 240,000 children go to such an institution. So to say that on one side it is not open to all, and on the other, to demand that there be no more church schools, is again contradictory, and you should consider this. However, let me give you one more thought. I would also like to say to Congresswoman Zita Gurmai that you should read this bill, please. Just as you said, Mrs Speaker, just as you said, as most of my fellow Members have said, the solution suggests, as with the transfer of the nationality institution, in ownership, that at the moment, if the church or one of its internal legal entities finishes education there, this property will return to the municipality. Here, let me point out that so far, the municipalities have given up the task of public education and what they have operated. But if it was handed over, why would a municipality be afraid to hand over property? So you don't have to worry about it, and I'm going to point out once again that if you hand it over, you'll get it back in case this public service is terminated. Dear Parliament, I would like to say this to Congresswoman Zita Gurmai. More real estate in the churches, that's what this law is about, and you know it's not true. On one side, it's true, from a religious point of view, but I don't think anyone disagrees that what your political ancestors in the Rákosi system have taken away from the churches or didn't want to give it, but it was a church mass, let's say, in the Matthias Church, then such churches and such chapels are rightly returned to the churches, since 500-600 years ago it was built by the churches. I don't think anyone's arguing that. Once again, the other real estate application, it's not about what you think we're doing here, but we're giving real estate to the churches, and I'm gonna say it again, in the event that they teach there 50 years from now, 100 years from now, 200 years from now, it's a task. My colleague from DK asked that the churches let more people in. In other words, more church schools are needed, if I understand correctly. [[László Sebian-Petrovski: I did not say that!]] So it is worth helping this need in the direction of adding wealth to the public task. There is another explanation for this law, Congresswoman, and I would also like to say it to everyone once again. If a religious legal person ceases to exist in Hungary... and there are monk orders, there are few of them, and there are elderly people, unfortunately the elderly carry out the public service. Unfortunately, there have been instances in the past that people have played their fortunes somewhere. I think it is in everyone's interest, for every Hungarian person who is not yet a believer, who does not send his child to such an institution, even it is in his interest to remain in Hungarian hands. Otherwise, this is also true of the questions about national memorial sites. Dr. Brenner to Congressman Koloman: He quoted Pope Francis, started from high, and then, I think, came a little lower. First of all, we should think about Jobbik, so, obviously, as a congressman, how much longer they want to rock. Because before the elections, they completely joined the line that Ferenc Gyurcsány dictated. How, for example, did this manifest itself? Let's say the return of Eszterházy Károly University was not supported by all Jobbik. Why didn't you support him? They didn't support them because at the time they were considered leftists, and then they were antichurch. The failure came, the great failure in April, it turns out that they should not hold on to Ferenc Gyurcsány, at least that is what they are saying right now, if I understand correctly, some national social, Christian and I do not know what kind of party they have suddenly turned themselves into, at least verbally. Therefore, I thank you for your support for this bill, but on the other hand, consistency does not hurt. I know I'm talking to the wall, because the MPs sitting next to Jobbik are a long way from Jobbik, the others, now I don't know if they're separated from them, or if they're in great friendship here DK and MSZP, I can't decide that, but let's talk a little bit about this thing between them because it can't be changed every two months, every six months, every few years in church territory, even because it's completely uncredited. [[16.30]] The most beautiful thing was that we, from a party political point of view, also submit this legislation and deal with the churches, and then Brenner Koloman, Dr. Brenner Koloman, quoted what? Bishop János Székely, who criticized us a week ago. So, are we so close to the churches now, or are we asked to be criticized just so that they can't say that we're fully furnished, as the DKs say? But once again, I would like to draw attention to the fact that non-Catholic, Reformed, Evangelical or other bishops of Christian or non-Christian denominations [[Sic!]] and there are church leaders at the head of the protests, but interestingly, they are the sympathizers of DK, who are called László Donáth and Gábor Iványi, and they are the ones who appear at each such event or are often there. I thank the Polish spokeswoman very much, through you, on the one hand, for the 12 unanimous votes made by the committee. Thank you very much for the call for attention or the suggestion that we might change the expression of the,, memorable point, I do not think there should be any problem in this. The aim is, indeed, that, in addition to the Hungarian, English-language signs, on the one hand, the inscription, or the historical narrative, mentioned by you, or on any other memorial point, where nationalities have some very important historical monuments, on the other hand, there should be also the inscription and the historical narrative, but on the other hand it should not be confused with the memorial places because it is obviously a different category. What you have asked, Congresswoman, for the sake of Poland, or the memorial place of St Cyril and St Methodius of the Slavs in Hungary, I believe that this should not be a problem, and I am sure that the committee whose task it is to do so would take these steps. Dear Parliament, I thank the pro-government Members very much for their supporting contributions which, on the one hand, gave me the content of the draft law, I do not believe that it is for educational purposes, but perhaps after a while someone can understand something, who has interpreted this law differently, but also from the other side, what appeared in practice either to Mihály Balla or to other Members, and which concerns the present steps relating to the churches. It is very important for someone not only to go to Brussels, but not only to hear our church-related tasks and cooperation goals, but also here, among the people, whether they are nationalities, be they any small village or small settlement, or even in large settlements. Thank you very much for listening, and thank you very much for your comments. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-11-09-122	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Miklós Soltész. Dear Parliament, We have until 4 p.m. on Friday to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law on the publication of an amendment to the Statute of the International Organisation for Migration will follow until its closure. The government referral is T/1835. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda.
u2022-11-09-123	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The International Organisation for Migration, the IOM, is an international organization of which our country has been a member since 1991. It currently has 174 States and 8 other States have observer status. Act No CXLVI of 2013 on the publication of the Statute and amendments of the International Organisation for Migration The text of our law in force is the most recent, very brief and technical amendments adopted in 2020. The amendment adopted in 2020 is of a technical nature. The number of Deputy Directors-General has been increased from one to two and the procedural rules related to their election have been clarified. The amendment has already entered into force for our country under the rules of procedure of the Statute of the Migration Organisation, but it is also formally necessary to publish it in internal law. By adopting and publishing the bill submitted, Hungary therefore fulfils its obligation under international law. In view of all this, I ask you to support the bill. Thank you for your perseverance. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-11-09-124	Thank you very much. The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Michael Balla, Fidesz.
u2022-11-09-125	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The International Migration Organization was founded in 1951, then for a specific task, on a temporary basis. After the Second World War, some 11 million people were identified who needed resettlement or lived in a country that was not their home country, where their additional housing conditions were not guaranteed. At that time, the needy people were provided with logistical, travel support and operational tasks. After its formation, one million people were helped by the International Migration Organization. Since then, it has been carrying out this work with changing priorities and tasks. Man-made and nature-induced disasters, crisis management and related assistance are their main vocations. Since 2016, the organization has been part of the UN, now present in 174 countries. An important Hungarian aspect of the organization's history of development is that in the period 1956-57 the Hungarian refugees were also supported, and the relocation of some 180 thousand Hungarians was facilitated. The International Migration Organization has been present in Hungary since 1992. It will also act in support of the crisis situation in Ukraine as a result of the current crisis. This bill contains the resolution No 1385 of the Board of the Organisation, which concerns the strengthening of the organisation's upper management structure. The essence of this is that in the future, there will be two Deputy Director-General positions in the management, instead of one so far, one will focus on operations and the other on governance and reform. This change does not fundamentally change the Statute of the International Organisation for Migration and does not impose any new obligations on the Member States, and it is therefore possible that the amendment entered into force on the date of its adoption by the Council. The Fidesz parliamentary group supports the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-11-09-126	Thank you very much, Congressman Mihály Balla. I now give the floor to Mr László Sebian-Petrovszki, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2022-11-09-127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Indeed, as the rapporteur said, as the speakers before me have said, we are basically talking about a technical amendment that happened some two years ago, so we are working a little slowly, but the point is that, of course, in a case of this type there is consensus between the different sides of the horseshoe, I think that this can still be found in a realistic way. On behalf of DK, I can say that we can, of course, support this proposal. I'd like to add one to this issue. I am very pleased that the Fidesz lead speaker before me has long said what this organization is, because it may not be so well known, perhaps not so clear that otherwise this organization has a long history and we have been talking about helping many people for decades. [[16.40]] And if there is a problem, a natural disaster, a political conflict, or a conflict of war, anywhere in the world that results in hundreds of thousands or even millions of people being forced to try to start a new life as refugees in the territory of another country, there is an organization in which almost every country in the world is involved, helping millions of people together. Yes, as my fellow Member mentioned, in 1956, during the Hungarian Revolution, hundreds of thousands of Hungarians fleeing to the West were helped by this organization, as was the case with the victims of the 2004 Far East tsunami and the refugees. So we are talking about a long-standing, very important, truly global organisation; I think we can be proud that Hungary is a member of this, and we have been involved in this work since 91 and 92 in practice. Let this remain so, and I therefore support this proposal on behalf of DK. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
u2022-11-09-128	Thank you very much, Congressman László Sebian-Petrovski. I now give the floor to Mrs Zita Gurmai, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2022-11-09-129	Thank you very much. Mr President, Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary. Indeed, the International Organisation for Migration is over 70 years old, it was established in 1951, indeed with the aim of helping European governments to resolve migration issues after World War II. It currently has 174 States and 8 other States have observer status. It is an intergovernmental agency whose task is to address the challenges of migration, promote social development and support the fight for respect for human dignity. The point of the proposal before us is that the organisation, in its resolution No 1385, adopted on 28 October 2020, amended its Statute, which is that it has changed the number of Deputy Directors-General from one to two. The change was justified by the need to strengthen the organisation's senior management structure by establishing two Deputy Director-General positions. One focuses on operations and the other on governance and reform. International migration is an important issue of our time, which also has a significant impact on the future of Europe, so we must do everything we can to ensure that this challenge can be addressed as successfully as possible by the international community. Therefore, if the Agency considers that structural change is necessary to ensure the effectiveness of its operation, it is worth providing support. The reasons for the proposal underline that this amendment does not fundamentally change the organisation's statute and does not impose any new obligations on Member States. In this case, there is no reason to oppose the change. The international community's efforts to address the challenges of international migration are all welcome, and the MSZP therefore supports the adoption of the bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause.]]
u2022-11-09-130	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai. I now give the floor to Mr Zoltán Sas, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2022-11-09-131	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, Dear House, We are discussing an amendment to the Statute of the International Organisation for Migration; it was amended by Decision No 1385 of the Fourth Extraordinary Council, adopted on 28 October 2020. The point of the amendment is that the number of Deputy Directors-General will vary from one to two. The amendment entered into force internationally in accordance with Article 25 (2) of the Statute on the day of its adoption by the Council, as this does not fundamentally change the Statute of the Organisation and does not impose a new obligation on the Member States. The International Migration Organisation has been working on policy guidelines in this area since 1951. It formulates global strategies, forms rules and manages knowledge related to the main flow migration sector, including labour and facilitates migration, takes action against trafficking in human beings, supports supported voluntary return, supports migration health, support for vulnerable migration, immigration and border management, and support overall capacity building for migration management. Despite the impact of the Covid-19 global crisis, the organisation remains one of the largest international crisis management organisations, but we in Hungary also need to remember that we have an accurate view of the difference between real war refugees and illegal migration in relation to events taking place in our eastern and southern border sections. At this point on the agenda, too, we should mention that yesterday was an unfortunate event; and we should mention that illegal migrants at the Bulgarian border were in a firefight with the Bulgarian border guard police and military patrol, which, unfortunately, resulted in the Bulgarian policeman's death on the ground. I hope that, because of the training and equipment of the now established border hunting regiment responsible for ensuring the Hungarian border, it will also be able to handle such extremely difficult situations in the future. We've been asking for a long time and we've proposed the creation of a separate border protection. We're glad this is happening right now. Returning to the draft, Jobbik will, of course, support the changes in this regard, the increase in the number of Deputy Directors-General. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
u2022-11-09-132	Thank you very much, Congressman Zoltán Sas. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We would now have two-minute speeches if there were no candidates. There would be further speeches by Members, if there were none. I'll ask if anyone has anything to say. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2022-11-09-133	Thank you very much. I would like to give you a brief answer to a brief debate. I would like to thank all the speakers for their support for the adoption of the bill, so we are expected to accept this in full agreement in the vote. Thank you very much.
u2022-11-09-134	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have until 4 p.m. on Friday to present the amendments. We now have a general debate on the bill on the elimination and management of the consequences of the armed conflict in the neighbouring country and of the humanitarian disaster in Hungary until closure. The government referral is T/1791. is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Répássy, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, author of the item on the agenda.
u2022-11-09-135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, Hungary's immediate neighbour, Ukraine, has been at war for more than six months. Due to the closeness of the war, its humanitarian and economic effects also clearly affect our country. These negative effects have become part of our daily lives for several months, which clearly justifies the government's launch of an emergency with its powers in the Fundamental Law on 25 May 2022. During the emergency, the government made use of the possibility of introducing extraordinary measures within the framework of the Fundamental Law and the relevant fundamental law. Over the past five months, the government has taken a number of measures that have proved necessary to address the economic crisis affecting the world economy and, as a result, the Hungarian economy. Among other things, the government extended the interest rate stop on residential loans, fought against the release of energy prices by using the Rezief Protection Fund and associated additional resources, and set a interest stop for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises until the summer of 2023. Dear House, As a result of the prolonged war, the management of the economic crisis threatening Europe requires that the government, in close cooperation with Parliament in its powers under the Fundamental Law, can take the necessary measures in the coming months to protect the livelihood and security of the Hungarian people, as well as the assistance and support of people fleeing the war to our country. [[16.50]] Unfortunately, the system of public law in the special legal order, which has changed by the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law, has entered into force during a period which justifies the existence of a special legal order. It is therefore the government's duty to ensure that these changed provisions are applied. For this reason, the government had to draw a cesure by November 1, 2022. As a result of the constitutional amendment adopted by the Parliament in 2020, the emergency announced in May 2022 had to be eliminated in view of the changing public funds. The ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law did not deprive the government of the possibility to re-hire the emergency. The Government, examining the circumstances giving rise to the announcement of an emergency, decided that, as of November 1, 2022, the special legal order should be re-published, maintaining the existing public-law situation. Dear Parliament, The Russian-Ukrainian war in our country's neighbourhood has brought the continent to a humanitarian challenge that has not been experienced since the Second World War, and has also changed Europe's economic prospects, and unfortunately there has been no positive change in its effects in recent years. To deal with the humanitarian disaster and to address and deal with the consequences of international and economic change, our country must continue to ensure that effective, rapid national responses are developed. Therefore, in order to ensure that all the necessary means are available to help, support and accommodate those fleeing from war and to ensure that Hungary leaves behind the harmful consequences of the war as soon as possible, the Government asks the Parliament with the bill submitted to extend the duration of the emergency announced on November 1, 2022 under the renewed public law framework. The draft law on the elimination and management of the consequences of armed conflict or humanitarian disaster in Hungary in neighbouring countries is technically designed to create a mandate under Article 51 (3) of the Fundamental Law, which allows the government to maintain the scope of the Government Decree declaring a special legal order until the date of expiry of the present bill. The Government requests the Parliament to extend the emergency by 180 days according to legal possibilities, which ensures that exceptional measures are maintained during this period. Dear Parliament, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Our country will face the consequences of a war and a sanctions policy surrounding the war, a war that no one can see the end of. The government's aim is to maintain the physical and financial security of Hungary and the Hungarian families, and to protect those fleeing Ukraine, in an extremely difficult situation for many years now. In order for the government to be able to take all the necessary measures in time, it is necessary to adopt this bill as soon as possible. If the bill is adopted, the government will be able to maintain its economic and humanitarian measures. With the adoption of this bill, this House will ultimately decide that, for example, official prices can be maintained, that measures relating to the export of agricultural products of strategic importance for the security of feed and food supply can remain, that public can be maintained, that interest stops for businesses, that measures can remain within the framework of energy prices being released, that we can ensure the necessary humanitarian measures for those fleeing Ukraine. The government's primary goal, as it has done so far, is to protect Hungarian people, reduce economic damage and preserve jobs. Over the past two years, the protection against a pandemic of the Crown Virus has demonstrated that the exceptional and transitional legal framework previously adopted has served these objectives well. With this bill, effective and rapid government decision-making can be ensured in order to respond flexibly to the difficulties caused by war. I would like to point out that the government is not asking Parliament for unlimited authority. The time limit set out in the bill under discussion and the obligation to provide information on public law and political responsibility, as laid down by the Fundamental Law, to Parliament since November l, clearly ensure that parliamentary control is enforced. I also stress that the government's obligation under the Fundamental Law is also to initiate, if the war and the global economic situation allow, the abolition of the emergency before the expiry of the bill under discussion. Dear Parliament, Protecting the safety, livelihood and workplace of Hungarian people is a matter in which Members should, in my view, speak with one voice. I therefore respectfully ask that you support this bill and, in the light of Article 51 (4) of the Fundamental Law, by a qualified majority, ensure that the duration of the emergency can be extended by the Government. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] With regard to paragraph 1 of this Article, a qualified majority shall ensure that the duration of the emergency is extended by the Government. Thank you for your attention. (Applause from the benches of the governing parties.)
u2022-11-09-136	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Répássy Róbert. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Földesi, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2022-11-09-137	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The Russian-Ukrainian war has resulted in a humanitarian disaster that has not been experienced since World War II and has significantly changed the economic situation in Europe. There is a crisis in the world's energy supply, a crisis in the supply of food to many regions, inflation throughout the world, economies turning into recessions, and millions of people's jobs are at risk. Despite regional armed conflict, the Russian-Ukrainian war has serious negative effects on the whole world, including the energy crisis and the food crisis already mentioned. In view of the armed conflict and humanitarian disaster in Ukraine, and in order to counter and deal with their consequences in Hungary, the Government of Hungary is the Government of 180/2022. [[V. 24.]] an emergency has been declared by a government decree throughout the country. On the resolution of the consequences of the armed conflict or humanitarian disaster in Hungary in the neighbouring country in 2022, Annex VI. Law No. 2 In Article 53 (1) and (2) of the Fundamental Law, the National Assembly authorised the Government to apply the Government Decrees pursuant to Article 53 (1) and (2) of the Fundamental Law in the event of an emergency, in accordance with Article VI of the 2022 Act. Renewal of law until the expiry of law. Annex VI to the EEA Agreement shall be replaced by the text set out in the Annex to this Regulation. The Act expired on 1 November 2022. The ninth amendment to the Fundamental Law of Hungary, which came into force on 1 November 2022, transforms the rules of the Fundamental Law on a specific legal order, such as emergency rules, on a conceptual basis. The armed conflicts and humanitarian disasters in Ukraine, as well as their consequences in Hungary, have not changed in recent years, so the new constitutional rules now provide for the government to declare an emergency in view of the armed conflict and humanitarian disaster in Ukraine, as well as in order to prevent and deal with their consequences in Hungary, as well as certain emergency rules 424/2022. [[X. 28.]] a new emergency has been declared by a government decree with the entry into force of 1 November 2022. The emergency can be declared for 30 days under the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law. The government may extend the emergency on the basis of the mandate of the Parliament if the circumstances giving rise to the announcement of an emergency persist. The purpose of the bill before us is to approve 425/2022. [[X. 28.]] a government decree, issued by the Government during previous emergencies and still in force, re-introducing 107 government regulations and authorising the Government to extend the emergency situation in accordance with Article 51 (3) of the Fundamental Law until the expiry of the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, To tackle the humanitarian disaster and prevent the consequences of international economic change, our country must continue to ensure that effective, rapid national responses are developed. [[17.00]] In order to ensure that all the necessary means are available to help refugees, the government proposes an extension of the emergency situation in order to avoid adverse economic impacts. I would ask you to support this proposal on the basis of what has been presented. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]] (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.)
u2022-11-09-138	Welcome, fellow Members. We'll get back to work. Head speaker for the DK Group: Mr Gergely Arató. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-11-09-139	One moment, please. [[He's adjusting his microphone.]]
u2022-11-09-140	It's okay. I had to wait, too.
u2022-11-09-141	I've solved the technical difficulties. Thank you. Dear House, It shows your governance and politics quite nicely that we started today with the Hungarian constitutionalism, the Golden Bull and the Hungarian constitutional traditions, and so we got to what this tradition and constitutionalism actually mean to you in the evening, to a set that can be set aside if you are uncomfortable with making economic or political decisions. The fact is, although I have said it several times here, it remains true that Hungary's state form is an emergency. You have maintained the emergency for years on and off the grounds for this. Of course, there is always danger, of course there is always a risk, only to take the lead of the country government to deal with these risks. At the same time, in a constitutional system, the government is not the only actor in this area, but also the elected Parliament. There is no doubt, of course, that you will vote for anything the government wishes of you, i.e. the Fidesz and KDNP fractions, we have seen how you operate as the seal printing machine of the government's will, as a transmission belt. They do not question government intentions in any way, but if decisions have to be made here, in Parliament, that means at least one limited publicity. It's the publicity that bothers you. The emergency is not being maintained because of what Mr. Secretary said here in a hypocritical way, so that they can maintain interest-stops and price caps. Mr Secretary of State, bring him here in a proper legislative manner, I am sure that not only the Fidesz faction, but all opposition groups will vote for these measures. Only if you bring them here, let's say, your plans, because you mentioned that too, we will not vote for that, because the seven-time gas price and the double electricity price will not be supported by the opposition, but the Fidesz MEPs will also vote for it, because they are satisfied with you, whatever it is, they will give their names to whatever it is. But what does it really do to maintain a constant emergency? Two things. On the one hand, and perhaps this is more important, that they can essentially deviate from the budget without limitation, give money for what they think of. Today Hungary does not have a budget, while the existence and functioning of the budget are one of the most important features of constitutionality, if you like it, the control of finances is the oldest or one of the oldest functions of the Parliaments, because in these certain midnight government decrees you differ from the budget, distribute billions or take billions away from the local government as you remember. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that this is why you most obviously need the emergency, so that you do not have to stick to the budget in any way, to parliamentary control, or to discuss public affairs. But there is another aspect of this issue, when government regulations are constantly being made because they are unable to do effective, professional government work. We see what happens to a bill that we discuss twice or three times in Parliament, because where it comes to mind, where it comes to mind, here they touch it, there they touch it a little bit. This is obviously unpleasant in legislative proposals, but in government decisions, it is possible to do what was done in the accounts, for which there was a month, when the whole country was extremely nervous about how much gas bills it was going to pay, but you constantly varied with terms, numbers, rules, and they were always issued in government regulations, because instead of making a decision properly prepared, you tended only to gain political benefits. So I must say, this House, that, of course, we will not give our names in any way to you, to the otherwise extremely weak democratic protection, which the Fundamental Law gives you so proud of, to further weaken and further inflate. And what you say, Mr. Secretary, don't be angry about it, but it's a laugh, however, that Parliamentary control will take place. In the first emergency, the obligation to inform Parliament was indeed fulfilled. Then here, you may remember, my fellow Members, at the beginning of each meeting, one or another minister reported on emergency measures. This was the only time when the emergency was justified, but it was not justified without limit, but I will say another sentence about this. I must say that the fact is that since then, however, the Parliament has not received any substantive information. You'll tell me how to ask a question. Of course you can, but it's not the same as you reporting on your decisions, the reasons for them. Finally, I would like to address one more question. Why is this situation coming up now? Because, in the great scraping of EU funds and in this context, the appearance of constitutionality has finally been accepted, what the opposition has said from the outset, that there must be a time limit for extending the emergency. But it was adopted as any other similar measure, so that nothing really changes but formally. Even though it is now necessary to extend the emergency every 180 days, this has been the practice, and I have no doubt that it will be extended every 180 days. And when there is finally peace in Ukraine, which, of course, will be that your aggressor friend Putin will abandon the plan to destroy Ukraine, so once there is peace in Ukraine, you will find another reason. Where migration, where Covid is, and if not, the Martians will be brought up as a reason to sustain the emergency. Once again, you are already disturbed by the appearance of democracy and the debate in this Parliament, which is what you are trying to avoid. What the emergency is for you is nothing more evident than the fact that when it first came to the idea that teachers were on serious strike and standing up for their interests in the spring, this was solved and broken by an emergency government decree, thus taking away their right to strike, by the way, undermining fundamental rights. Let us not agree that the Constitutional Court has now had time to deal with this. The second is that there will be control of the Constitutional Court. Well, it's gonna be awesome. As I understand it, the Constitutional Court has just adopted initiatives in this regard. To sum up, the emergency is an extremely transparent fig leaf before unprofessional, unconventional governance, the reduction of fundamental rights and the brainless spending of money, and I did not say anything nasty at the time. There is no way we can support him in this way.
u2022-11-09-142	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Ms Hajnalka Juhász. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2022-11-09-143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Let me begin by saying that there was an attack by Martians, a solar wind, but on behalf of all my pro-government fellow Members, I would like to say that we are declared seal printing machines, whatever the seal printing machine is in this relation. Ladies and gentlemen, Since 1 November 2022, the provisions of the Fundamental Law relating to the special legal order have been transformed on a conceptual basis as a result of the ninth amendment of the basic law. In six different categories of the previous special legal order, the unusual circumstances in which the need to apply a special constitutional instrument other than the general rules of public operation arises, in general, from peace. Through this change, the category system of special legal order has become simpler and more transparent for three types: state of war, state of emergency and emergency, reducing such cases. In view of the change in the Fundamental Law, it is appropriate to abolish the special legal order based on the former constitutional basis and to declare an emergency in accordance with the new basic law from 1 November 2022. In this context, it should be pointed out that, in addition to the change in the constitutional framework, the re-communication of the emergency was also required by what the Secretary of State said that, due to the Russian-Ukrainian war and the resulting humanitarian disaster, we are still facing serious challenges in the areas of asylum, economic and energy in Hungary. [[17.10]] Under the Fundamental Law, the emergency can normally be declared for 30 days, which the Government may extend by 180 days on the basis of the mandate of the Parliament if the circumstances giving rise to the announcement of the emergency persist. The basic objective of the proposal is to authorise the Government, within the meaning of Article 50 (3) of the Fundamental Law, which my fellow Member stressed, to extend the emergency by 180 days. As a guarantee element, it is proposed that Parliament's mandate under this Act may be revoked at any time, in accordance with Article 4 (4) of the draft. §2 of the Act states that the government has the power to terminate the emergency before the expiry of that law. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, It is in our country and Europe's primary interest that the war in our neighbourhood be over as soon as possible. In these circumstances, it is essential to ensure the government's ability to act, the ability to respond quickly to persistent serious challenges, and therefore the KDNP supports the bill. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-09-144	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Ms Zita Gurmai. Here you go.
u2022-11-09-145	Thank you very much. Mr President, Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary. What we are debating here would, under the circumstances, be unthinkable in a normal Western European democracy. We are debating the extension of a special legal order, while there is no need for it in Hungary or in any EU Member State. The thing is, Fidesz is addicted to regulation government, extra power beyond the two-thirds majority. The fact is that the extension of the time of the special legal order serves nothing but the comfort policy of Fidesz, because there is no need for transparency, the Parliament and the system of brake and counterweights, the institutions which the Orbán government has held either by implanting appropriate cadres or by cutting the powers. What I can say, my fellow Members, is that these measures do not strengthen legal certainty, predictability, help to close the EU rule of law procedures, and do not bring the development and catching-up money for Hungarians closer. Because you could have also brought to us in a bill all the measures on which a government decree was adopted. It wouldn't take long to convene the Parliament, provided the Fidesz Members are willing to do so. There would certainly be measures that we would support, and there would be measures that we would not, but it would be possible to have a substantive debate on all of them. For example, we would support regulation on the freer use of SZÉP cards, interest-stops, public fuel prices or a moratorium on credit repayments. But surely we cannot support the brutal increase in energy prices that you have unleashed on families, businesses, NGOs and municipalities by a feather stroke. Ladies and gentlemen, You can see that Hungary is on the verge of an unprecedented livelihood disaster, with continuous increases, double-digit inflation, dew-weak forints, an economy exposed to the international environment, an energy-price explosion and a fragmented society. You are aware that Gergely Gulyás and Szilárd Németh, representing the Fidesz government, announced on 13 July 2022 that the reduction in the rent against the earlier promises and claims of the Orbán government will be terminated in its form introduced in 2013. Following the Fidesz Government's action, from 1 August 2022, consumers of electricity and natural gas eligible for universal service will have to pay a so-called retail market price, which is a double price for electricity and more than seven times the price for natural gas. That's it, they wrote a decree, and no matter what they promised, they did the opposite. They lied, they cheated the voters. You know perfectly well that the brutal increase in electricity and gas prices has caught the public off guard, as Viktor Orbán spoke even on 7 July 2022 about the protection of the reduction of the rent. In April, ministers said that the Hungarian economy is stronger and more resilient than before. In October last year, Péter Szijjártó announced the Russian gas purchase agreement for 15 years:. We created the possibility of keeping the price of gas from increasing for Hungarian consumers regardless of the price movements on the world market. With another regulation, local governments, small businesses, civil society organisations, schools, kindergartens, clinics and social institutions have been thrown out of the protected energy supply chain, their energy costs have increased to 10-15 times, and their existence endangers or renders impossible the maintenance of the services they provide. You know that, despite previous government promises, a brutal increase in electricity and gas prices brings many families and businesses to an almost unsolvable situation. Of course, the situation is difficult not only in our countries but also in other EU Member States, we know, but there is an important difference: governments in other countries in Europe are increasing the support of companies and people, whereas the Orbán government is taking them away. Thus, the Orbán government has partly triggered the crisis, and now it is deepening the crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, The government caused chaos and a livelihood crisis by increasing energy prices. There was no help for the only electricity users, and they did not take into account the life situation of the majority of people, even though there is 12 forints of Paks electricity, it produces a quarter more than residential needs, inflation does not affect the price, it is not affected by the international environment. Adding the amount of 24 HUF electricity produced in Mátra Power Plant covers more than 41 percent of the country's electricity demand. Yet you are asking people for a price of HUF 70 above average consumption, and for a price of HUF 200-300 from municipalities, companies and public benefit organizations. It's a shame to make a profit. We could do this smarter, we could give a price cap to the local government sector, and we should ensure that the necessary public services are maintained in all municipalities. You said that raising the price of electricity and natural gas does not affect three quarters of families. On the other hand, it is a fact that the increase in government debts creates an impossible situation. As a consequence of the economic policy of the last 12 years, rural masses are now threatened by hundreds of thousands of millions of bills. You don't think the reduction in the rent has stopped. On the other hand, it is a fact that the government has not yet released such a gas price increase on Hungarian families as the Orbán government. In the case of a household consuming 2 thousand cubic metres of natural gas per year, the government introduced a 90% increase, a nearly 200 percent increase in a household consuming 2 000 cubic metres per month, and a nearly fourfold increase in the price of natural gas in a household consuming 3 000 cubic metres. These consumption volumes are still about heating the pool. You say that we should be happy about what has been happening so far, because you believe that for the 9th year since 2013, Hungarian people have been paying a reduced, state-adjusted price for energy, for a fraction of the world market price. On the other hand, it is a fact that the price of gas had to be reduced in 2014 because before that the Orbán government increased the price of HUF 107 per cubic metre in 2010 to HUF 132 per cubic metre. It is also a fact that in most of the period since 2014 there was a reduced retail price higher than imports and world market prices. There were also periods when Hungarian consumers had to pay two to three times or more compared to the current market price. This situation lasted from 2015 to the summer of 2021 when the post pandemic economic recovery increased demand for energy sources, and energy prices started to rise. Ladies and gentlemen, And last but not least, we cannot forget the ancient energy crime of Fidesz: we need so much gas now because the Orbán government has practically ignored energy efficiency over the past 12 years. While, in its plan to update the energy strategy two years ago, there was clear faith, for example, in the need to renovate the so-called Kádár cube houses, this was already left out of the accepted version. [[17.20]] As such, the Orbán Government has not provided state or even EU support for this purpose either before or since. The applicant will not be subject to explicit, professional energy efficiency requirements by the end of the year. Instead, the money was spent completely unnecessary on buying domestic energy companies, so as not to mention the stadiums or the Carmelite monastery or the small talk of Lőrinc Mészáros. By the way, it is interesting that the other share of the electricity account, which was used for the operation of the system, is essentially the revenue of network companies, was increased by the utility authority after the Prime Minister's friend in Felcsút bought Tigas and Titasz, which operated the gas and electricity grid in East Hungary, and now the sevenfold gas price is released into the mass of consumers living in the unchanged outdated dwelling, which is a good chance according to the government. By the way, the value of the 740 HUF gas price per cubic meter is also seven times higher, i.e. nearly 160 HUF. You have said that only in Hungary will people be protected by cuts in rent, but it is a fact that while other European governments are in the process of speeding up their overhead subsidies, the Orbán government is in the process of rescinding it and wants additional budgetary revenue through price increases. In some EU Member States, there are many ways of supporting the reduction of public energy needs, from tax reductions to public price regulation and social aid, for example, the regulation of retail prices in nine EU Member States, from Romania to Bulgaria and Poland to Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, Fidesz accuses his opponents of what he actually does himself. For example, it is said that the opposition would abolish the reduction of the rent and raise everything to market prices. On the other hand, the fact that the MSZP has never opposed the official price has never said that the official price should be increased or even reduced. The MSZP always took the view that revenues would cover the costs of energy supply in the long term, so we contested when market prices, i.e. purchasing prices, were reduced to a fraction of domestic household charges, and the public energy trader accumulated a surplus profit of 100 billion. Although some of this was distributed to the population during the one-off discount for the 2018 elections, there was plenty of it for the oligarchs of Orbán. Instead, the MSZP proposed a striped tariff system, which would allow for a reduction in the price of consumption that would satisfy the essential vital needs, and reduced fees could be kept up to twice the average consumption. In addition, additional social measures are needed, such as the resuscitation of the housing support scheme that has been set aside by the Orbán government. And last but not least, we have always called for the energy modernisation and insulation of the apartments, because the cold reality is that the current Hungarian government has a permanent impact on traffic and demand, not import prices, but this requires prior broad, professional-based social dialogue, no less awareness-forming to think and isolate, because tariffs can be launched at any time. Ladies and gentlemen, On this basis, the MSZP parliamentary group will propose an amendment so that regulations which unnecessarily harm people, municipalities, small businesses and civilians are not extended, thus initiating the repeal of the retail price increase introduced in August. We say they'll give you the Paks power for what it costs. We are proposing that municipalities, public benefit NGOs and small businesses should be entitled to re-acquisition electricity and gas in the protected supply chain. We also propose that the regulation suspending the connection of solar panels to the network should be repealed. I ask you to support our proposals, join us and implement the Resisttop together. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2022-11-09-146	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr László Lukács György Group Leader. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2022-11-09-147	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, You are bringing in this bill for further authorisation, for granting another mandate, for its adoption, and I must say, just as in the previous debate 30 days ago and in the previous debates, I must say that in this case there is basically a problem with its justification, so the fundamental justification for emergency regulation, that is to say, let us be clean! We do not believe that regulation governance exists. I told you earlier that it does not exist because the dangers facing the country can also be addressed in the ordinary legal order. They are available to the government and Parliament, both the regulation and the legislative tasks that can be dealt with, so that both in relation to the economic crisis as a treatment of inflation or other factor, and this may not even be a matter of regulation governance to protect the forint, with the resolution of the humanitarian disaster, all Hungary has a system of instruments that can be operated in a clear legal framework, and there is no need for additional authorisation for regulation governance. [[Sic!]] In my view, what has simply happened is that the Prime Minister has fallen in love with the governance of the regulation, it is clear that he is currently steering Hungary into an emergency situation as a result of an emergency, and it must be said that the sanctioning king Viktor Orbán, who voted for eight out of eight sanctions packages in Brussels, is basically asking for a blank cheque in order for everything to take place in the country in his own way and does not have to report or discuss with anyone what is happening. I would like to reiterate how much the price cap helps the market process and how we can protect people, because we all know it, and I think you know that if we touch any product on the market with a fixed price, it will assume, and the result will be that we have to intervene in future products and services, where they draw a thread in the system, and even fix the price of a product, problems that need to be dealt with again and again. So, with such price fixing alone, they cause dozens of problems. Márton Nagy said more than once that the country should be separated from these price caps or from official prices and that consumers should be protected in a different way. This is what we have given, and there has been a suggestion, a proposal for VAT reduction, with even more stringent control, perhaps all the opposition parties have supported, that it could be launched, or that this could be the institution of the family card, which will help families in the long term, so there would be several solutions, for which I repeat, no additional powers of regulation would be required. The humanitarian disaster, when the rules have not yet been defined by regulation, Hungary is exemplary, and not all of the Hungarian government or Hungarian official bodies here, but very often the civilians, by example, carried out it on the border and near the border with the help of the local governments in the days when the war broke out and our Hungarian-speaking, fleeing countrymen arrived with a mass of Hungarian-speaking, fleeing compatriots, and also those who came from the more inner territory of Ukraine. I myself was there, and I saw how good harmony and good cooperation can be achieved by both the municipality and civil society organisations and the population, which did not require a specific mandate for regulation and independent legislative practice in this area. And, well, here's the energy disaster, as you put it. It is also possible and possible for the government to do so by means of legislation or its existing regulations or regulations, and this should not be hidden behind it. And that is why we should not hide it, and that is why I do not think that the mandate is necessary for you, and that is why it is not necessary to use the extraordinary legal order in this way, and I have already said this in the previous debate, because the introduction of such extraordinary legal orders and the related regulation violates the consistent and good follow-up behaviour in each case. After all, the law-abiding people, who, in fact, are not exempt from their possible missteps by the knowledge of the law or the rule, cannot really keep up with the rules that apply to their watch. This, on the one hand, worsens, does not it, and on the other, also undermines the quality of legislation; on the other hand, it results in unpleasant situations in which all the regulations will have to be kept in force at the end with all such legislative tricks, or carried forward, which is essentially a mockery of what is the true profession of legislation. [[17 .30]] And what makes it worse is the interpretation of the law. If a person has a problem with the way he follows ever-changing rules, then interpretation of the law is also a problem, so he may have several problems in the dispute between the state or between companies that make interpretation more difficult, thus making law enforcement worse and reducing trust in legislation. Overall, in summary, I can say, ladies and gentlemen, that we do not believe that there is a situation on the basis of which it would be justified that we give you this mandate. The situation that we have at the moment, using the normal framework, using the ordinary legal order, is manageable and manageable by a hundred percent of its assets, which is why we cannot and cannot afford to give you permission to do so. The Group for Jobbik Hungary will not vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2022-11-09-148	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the group of our country is Dócs Dávid, Member of the Parliament. Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2022-11-09-149	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, In short, I would like to summarize exactly what this new emergency would be about. As we know, the government wants to declare an emergency in view of the armed conflict and humanitarian disaster in Ukraine and in order to counter their consequences in Hungary, another emergency. This is the case for 180/2002. [[V. 24.]] Government Decree No. 1. We believe that maintaining this new emergency will simply bring legislation to a regulatory level, which we consider to be a concern. On 1 November 2022, the ninth amendment of Hungary's Fundamental Law came into force, and that part of it was the amendment of the Fundamental Law to the special legal order and thus its emergency rules on a conceptual basis. With Government Decree No 424/2002 announced on 28th of X, the government declared a new emergency with the entry into force of 1 November 2022. The emergency can be declared for 30 days under the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law. The government may extend the emergency on the basis of the Parliament's mandate, if the circumstances that give rise to the announcement of an emergency persist, and, as we see, we are living at a time when this can be constantly extended, so we are constantly falling from emergency to emergency, from small arms to buckets. In this special legal order, the Government may establish a decree by which it may suspend the application of certain laws, derogate from legal provisions and take other exceptional measures, as defined in the cardinal law. The aim of the proposal is to enable the Government to extend the emergency situation again 180 days on the basis of paragraph 3 of Article 51 of the Fundamental Law. Dear House, Here's the point on which our country's movement really wants to respond. Although the last few years have been difficult, trying years of man and government, which are ahead of us, and which promises to be even more difficult, we do not consider it fortunate that the government can take extraordinary measures by declaring a continuous emergency, or suspend, as it pleases, the application of certain laws, or lead the country, the Parliament, at least by leaving the opposition completely out of it. In the emergency that has now been left behind, 107 such government decrees have been issued in the most diverse areas of life. They were not based on a broad social consensus, so they do not fully reflect the needs of society, as the increase in the prices of the energy generated by ourselves and the increase in system charges to multiples, we believe that it is not in the interests of the Hungarian people, but this is the government decree, and you would like the Parliament to accept this emergency to continue. The Hungarian Movement can support humanitarian measures and measures to help the Hungarian population, but in this form it cannot fully accept this bill, so it will initiate its amendment, because it is quite simply unacceptable that there are exceptional cases that, for example, the gas price per cubic metre of 107 forints would be increased to a price above 3 thousand forints. You would do this in the interest of reducing the costs, which made the government press loud before the elections. We, on the other hand, believe that this is simply a category of people's skinning. This is not a category where the average Hungarian taxpayer and the average Hungarian entrepreneur will pay for it, but this is simply the inexpensive category. Therefore, hiding behind this emergency cannot be supported, and, as I said, the Hungarian Movement cannot support it, so we will initiate an amendment to this bill. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-11-09-150	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mr Csárdi Antal. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-11-09-151	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Parliament has a bill on the resolution and resolution of the consequences of the armed conflict and humanitarian disaster in Hungary in its neighbouring country. We greens have a number of problems with this bill, but let's go first. First of all, why do we need the bill? On 24 February this year, Russia attacked an independent sovereign state, Ukraine. After the South Slavic War, we have another armed conflict next door. At the beginning of this circle, in order for this war to end, i.e. Russia to leave the occupied territories, we need three things. First of all, let us stop financing the Russian occupation by buying expensive fossil energy, by knocking down the Russian economic backland, and not relativity to war aggression. The representatives of the Fidesz-KDNP are making this war look like their attacking and under attacking responsibilities are exactly the same. Let's record it: it's not the same thing. There's no equality mark. If Russia leaves the occupied territories, there will be no armed conflict in our neighbourhood and there will be no humanitarian disaster. In the context of the war conflict, we cannot go without saying that our country is suffering from an energy crisis, an energy crisis. This is because of dependence on fossil energy purchased from abroad. The only long-term solution to this is to reduce the use of fossil energy, and there is no other way than a radical green light. We, the Greens, are convinced that the solution to the current crisis is not to fight to maintain our energy dependency, but to start with the green solutions on the path of energy independence. You are referring to the fact that this energy crisis is due to EU sanctions. It's a poster that's all over the country. We believe that the fidesz narrative that sanctions do not work and that only Europe suffers from them is not factually true. According to prognosis, Russia was in a tough recession in 2022, a 10-percent decline is predicted by the end of the year, and in the coming years the economic downturn can only be greater. This is not surprising, since sanctions are, by their very nature, always later in time, and in all cases temporal asymmetry must be taken into account. But on the basis of the same consideration, we also believe that the Western argument is fundamentally wrong that, with the greater penalty pressure, peace can be achieved quickly. In this form, this is certainly a wrong approach, since fast peace can only be achieved by the immediate withdrawal of the Russian troops, the Soviet pardon. Dear House, Let us also talk about the concrete proposal itself. The purpose of this bill before us is to extend the emergency. The extent to which the government is playing a role is well demonstrated by the fact that, in the preamble to the bill, Parliament no longer declares the substance of the law, but the government justifies its proposal for an extension of the emergency. Thus, the bill does not even make a gesture towards the Parliament to state the preamble that the Parliament will in that time consider the government's arguments and create the law authorising the extension of the emergency. Moreover, this bill has not been discussed in society, which is difficult to understand in the light of the government's efforts to ensure that the European Commission will be consulted in the future. [[17.40]] We're used to the Prime Minister turning everything into a power struggle. There is no policy, no social policy, no economic policy, only and there is only a policy of power. At the end of the day, that's all that matters. When we are faced with a bill on the elimination and management of the consequences of the armed conflict and humanitarian disaster in Hungary in the neighbouring country, it does not really matter what regulations the government amends. The majority of emergency measures could be implemented quickly and effectively without maintaining an emergency situation, without the need for specific measures in the legal order. It is no coincidence that no country outside Hungary has introduced any special legal order. Dear House, The Green Party of LMP Hungary does not vote in favour of the bill because, according to recent months and even years, the government is not living, but is using special licenses. If the government had used its special licenses in recent months, it would have started raising the wages of teachers this year, allowing wind farms to be replanted, abolishing solar panels, introducing air-conditioning leases, providing resources for building insulation programs, reducing VAT on basic foods. Unfortunately, the government didn't do that. Thank you very much.
u2022-11-09-152	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no such signal.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Répássy Róbert, Minister of State, as rapporteur, to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-11-09-153	Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Members, I would just like to reply very briefly, as many arguments have already been made by the pro-government speakers involved in the debate. First of all, it is regrettable to note that the opposition does not wish to help the government deal with the emergency, so the government and the majority in favour of the government are left alone to deal with the emergency. That, of course, has been the case. There's nothing new about that. Nor is it very surprising that they produce different conspiracy theories about how the government uses this mandate. The government has already demonstrated for a long time that it has not abused emergency rules, has always worked under the control of the Parliament, and more importantly, it has always used these special legal instruments to deal with the emergency and to resolve the emergency. I believe that these decisions, decisions of both Parliament and government, will be decided by posterity whether these decisions were justified at these times in such difficult times of war and emergency, in difficult circumstances. I think our conscience is clear. Those with unconscious consciences aren't here. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-11-09-154	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. We now have a general debate in Strasbourg on the Convention of 21 March 1983 on the transfer of sentenced persons, the draft law on the publication of the Protocol amending the Supplementary Protocol of 18 December 1997 in Strasbourg and the draft law on the amendment of certain criminal offences and related other laws until closure. Government referrals T/1790. and T/1837. can be accessed by numbers on the House's IT network for all of us. I now give the floor to Mr Répássy Róbert, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-11-09-155	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, You have two criminal laws before you. One of them provides for the publication of an international treaty and the other is a multi-legislative amending law, which is based on the fact that a number of legislative requirements have emerged since the last amendment of criminal law, which made this amendment inevitable. T/1790 on the publication of the Protocol amending the Strasbourg Convention on the Transfer of Convicted Persons The purpose of the bill is to publish by law the Protocol amending the Additional Protocol to the Convention. The Additional Protocol is set out in Annex LXVII of 2001. It's out of the question. It's out of the question. The Additional Protocol allows for the transfer of prisoners without the consent of the sentenced person, in order to promote the objectives of the justice system and to promote the social integration of sentenced persons, and knowing that the majority of States Parties cannot issue their own nationals, in the case of prisoners who have escaped from the judgment state or who have been expelled or banned. The Amending Protocol updates and improves the Additional Protocol in the light of developments in international cooperation in the transfer of sentenced persons, thereby making cooperation faster, more flexible and broadening the number of sentenced persons subject to the forms of cooperation provided for in the Additional Protocol. This Amending Protocol constitutes an international contract within the meaning of the Act on the Procedure for International Contracts. The recognition of the mandatory scope of the international treaty may take place if, in the light of the text of the contract, the Parliament authorises it to do so in the case of an international contract falling within the remit and competence of Parliament. The international treaties falling within the remit and competence of the Parliament shall be published by law. The Amending Protocol shall enter into force on the first day of the month following the expiry of the period of three months from the date on which each Party to the Additional Protocol expresses its acceptance of the binding effect of the Amending Protocol in accordance with the provisions of Article 3. The Party to the Additional Protocol may, at the time of acceptance or approval of the ratification or at any later date, declare provisional application of the Amending Protocol. In this case, the provisions of the Amending Protocol shall apply only to those parties which have made a declaration of the same effect. Six of the States which ratified the Amending Protocol have already declared provisional application. In order to ensure that foreign prisoners can be transferred to their own country as soon as possible in order to serve the penalty, Hungary also wants to make use of the possibility of temporary application. Dear Parliament, Please accept T/1790. Bill No. 1. I now turn to the T/1837 on the amendment of certain criminal law and related other laws. Bill No. 1. We live in changing times. Due to these changing socio-economic circumstances, the legal system is also constantly changing. From time to time, EU and international obligations, decisions of the Constitutional Court and feedback from law enforcement bodies require that criminal law laws be reviewed by the legislator. The T/1837 in front of you. The aim of the bill is to meet the new challenges of our time, thus strengthening the coherence of the legal system and facilitating the work of law enforcement. Most of the bill is the amendment of the three Codes of Criminal Procedure, the Criminal Material, Procedure and Enforcement Act. In addition, there are other criminal law laws in the bill, such as the law on international criminal assistance and criminal cooperation with the Member States of the European Union, and the law on criminal law measures applicable to the legal person in connection with Be. In the context of the prison law, there is also a minor clarification of the criminal record law. [[17.50]] Finally, as the bill seeks to address a number of problems and shortcomings that can only be addressed through a coherent amendment of related laws, the bill also contains amendments to certain non-criminal laws. In the context of the Act on Medicinal Products, in the context of Be., in the context of the APB and bankruptcy law, and in the context of the Penalty Act, in the context of the Penalty Act, and in the context of the Penalty Enforcement Act, as well as the Act on the Organisation of Penalty Enforcement and on the Registration of Citizens' Personal Data and Addresses. In the following, I am seeking a brief presentation of the most important changes of major importance, and I would like to propose a thorough examination of the justification of the bill in order to get to know further details. Dear House, The amendments to the bill concerning the rules of criminal substantive law can be divided into three groups. On the one hand, in order to comply with the decisions of the Constitutional Court, it was necessary to modify the concept of drugs and the facts of quailing. On the other hand, based on the experience of the Hungarian National Bank, which supervises financial institutions, it is justified to modify certain offences that violate the order of farming. Finally, the bill contains additional provisions requiring minor changes in the application of the law and ensuring compliance with European Union law. The bill amends the criminal law concept of drugs and new psychoactive substances for the sake of more transparent regulation, as the Constitutional Court 31/2021. The current criminal law concept of drugs does not meet the norm because it cannot be clearly and fully established which substances are drugs in Hungary and which constitute grounds for criminal liability as such. The Btk. The drug concept currently refers to three sources of law. According to this, the substances listed in the first and second lists of the Single Drug Convention and in the first and second lists of the psychotropic Convention, thirdly in Annex II to the Act, constitute the Btk. He thinks it's drugs. The international lists are amended annually, and these additions are not to be incorporated into the original legislation declaring conventions, under the law on the law of international treaties, but to be published as a new law. According to the Constitutional Court, this legal solution has now resulted in a highly casuistic regulation and therefore it is necessary to create a more transparent, simpler drug concept. The bill therefore sets out a rule of reference calling for a source of law containing a full list of drugs in force. This legal source will be a new BM regulation currently under preparation. This Regulation will categorize all substances classified as drugs under international, European Union or domestic law, making it clear and easy for law enforcement and law-seeking citizens to identify which substances are considered drugs. In addition to drugs, this BM Regulation will include a list of new psychoactive substances, i.e. replacing the existing EMMI Regulation. So in the future, all the so-called controlled substances will be found in one place. In view of this, the bill also amends the concept of new psychoactive substance in Btk, indicating the new regulation. The bill amended the facts of the quacking by the Constitutional Court 24/2021. It intends to comply with the legislative obligation laid down in Decision No.3 of the European Parliament and of the Council. According to the Constitutional Court's decision, the Btk. 187. The provision in paragraph 1 (b) does not currently comply with the requirement of standard clarity. The purpose of the amendment is to protect the clients involved in psychotherapy and to reduce the claim of misleading, false psychotherapy skills, in line with the original legislative aim of the facts. To this end, the amendment contained in the bill seeks to make it criminal if a person performs a medical service for compensation or on a regular basis while making himself appear as an unauthorized psychotherapist. It is important to point out that it is currently considered an offence to use the reference to psychotherapist qualifications unduly. However, the abuse in the field of health services, in addition to the abuse of trust in the knowledge of the authors of titles and grades, is a major threat to the health of the population and its physical and mental well-being if the untrained psychotherapist is also performing health services. In view of this, it is appropriate to impose criminal penalties on the implementation of additional behaviour. The amendment contained in the bill avoids unfair market players from offering uncertain quality, unclear health services to healthcare providers. Dear House, Economic changes also lead to new forms of financing and investment in financial services. That's what makes it necessary for the Btk. 408. the modification of the facts of the unauthorized financial activity within the meaning of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. The protection of clients of financial services is adequately served by the authorities when authorising these activities to examine whether the guarantee conditions for operation are in place. Unlicensed activity can lead to abuse and could cause serious harm to consumers, unsuspecting investors. As a result of the bill, it will be punishable to carry out a Community financing service in the absence of a licence, to carry out pan-European individual pension product service or distribution activities in the absence of a licence or registration, and to carry out electronic money sales activities in the absence of a notification. The experience of market surveillance procedures conducted by the Hungarian National Bank has shown that market abuse detected in them has been carried out in several cases by officials and employees of securities issuers placed on the market, with information derived from their position. They must not be disregarded as abusive behaviour can undermine investors' confidence. Those familiar with the functioning of the capital market, who are experienced in its practice, can be expected to maintain the legal requirements for the capital market. This expectation justifies the establishment of increased criminal liability. Accordingly, the bill provides for stricter penalties for insider dealing as a qualifying case for a criminal offence by its officials and employees having access to insider information by virtue of their duties, as well as for more stringent criminal law action in the event of illicit market manipulation in the context of that logic. In addition, the provisions of the bill concerning Btk. were included in the legislative provisions supplementing the legal shortcomings in the case-law and facilitating the interpretation of the law. Such a amending provision includes, inter alia, clarification of the rules governing the encounter of two life sentences. The Btk. It follows from its wording that, instead of reprimanding life sentences, the previous sentence of imprisonment should be applied if its execution has not yet been completed. The Btk. However, it does not provide that conditional leave from a previous life sentence may be terminated by a court acting in a subsequent case and imposing another life sentence, which could be the basis for the execution of a previous life sentence. The amendment replaces this deficiency. The bill also responds to the question of case law raised by the Btk. to facilitate the proper application of suspended imprisonment by clarifying that the execution of suspended imprisonment should not be ordered if, during the probation period of suspended imprisonment, the perpetrator returns legally to the territory of Hungary in accordance with rules based on domestic or international legal obligations. [[18.00]] Finally, the bill also contains provisions to ensure compliance with European Union law. on attacks against information systems 2013/40. Btk has become necessary due to infringement proceedings concerning the inadequate transposition of Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. 423. Amendment to the facts of the breach of the information system or data in accordance with §8 of this Regulation. Dear Parliament, Let us now move on to the amendments to the bill concerning the rules on criminal proceedings, which cover three major issues: support for electronicisation, clarification of the jurisdiction of the third-degree court, and the unification of special termination rights in private and secondary proceedings. Ensuring procedural presence is a key issue for the effective conduct of criminal proceedings. In the current mobilizing world, it is increasingly difficult to locate a witness or even a loaded person. It is not necessarily the intention of hiding from the authorities, but also the current variety of working environments or family and social relationships. The bill strengthens the use of widespread e-accessibility in society in order to ensure that the necessary staff are available as effectively as possible for the conduct of procedural acts. On the basis of the bill, the contact details of the accused, the victim and the witness in criminal proceedings should not only be the address of the address or place of residence but also be systematically recorded, such as the e-mail address. On the basis of the bill, this task appears in the APB procedure in addition to criminal proceedings in case of identification of the wanted person. The electronic contact details for criminal prosecution purposes will make it much easier for criminal prosecution bodies to contact the persons concerned and ensure their availability to conduct the procedure. These innovations also put stakeholders in a more favourable position by making public authorities less obliged to restrict their rights, e.g. in the case of the defendant, it may be sufficient to contact them through the telecommunications access made available. With this, the bill builds on the electronic forms of communication already in force in Be., and aims to make them more effective. In this context, it should also be recalled that, thanks to an earlier amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act, the authorities may, if the nature of the case permits, even through the telecommunications devices of the person concerned, conduct an interrogation of a witness by using the assets of the person concerned, by means of a Skype call. In addition to the above, an important reform of the criminal proceedings towards electronicisation in the bill is the fact that it is no longer necessary to physically transport the person in custody to the body under the arrest warrant after the arrest warrant has been apprehended, and it may be sufficient to ensure his presence by means of telecommunications. This named option can be used to save costs on the public authorities' side, and it is also beneficial for those concerned to limit detention to the necessary period of time. As regards the rules on third-degree judicial proceedings, it is appropriate to set out the results of the case-law on the limitation to the facts of the judgment overruled in the text of the law. Under the current legal provisions, the third-degree court will override the decision of the second instance court and, in doing so, may supplement and correct the facts by the means at its disposal. At the same time, the extent to which this supplement may be corrected and, on the other hand, the possibility referred to in the second-degree procedure, the finding of different facts could be applied at a third stage, as well as the boundaries between the difference and the addition, the correction, the silence of the law. In line with the case law, which is now considered to be established, the bill draws a clear line between the addition, the correction as a minor correction and the finding of different facts as a correction having a greater impact. The essence of the difference can be summarised by the fact that the correction resulting in a change in guilt is a derogation, a minor correction is an addition and a correction. The bill also sets out the extent to which a third degree can change the facts established by the second instance court. In determining the different facts, i.e. which led to a change in the matter of guilt, the facts of the case may be established in an unlimited manner in favour of the defendant and, in accordance with the procedure laid down in the case-law, without prejudice to the elements arising from the infringement of the second-degree procedure, in return to the facts of first instance, which are otherwise based on merit. As a result, a third degree is not possible to establish a completely new factual situation, which has not been raised in any of the previous courts' judgments. The rules of the separate private and private prosecution procedure are also specific within the criminal system in that the accused person cannot be replaced by the prosecutor, so if the private accuser or the substitute private accused no longer cooperates in order to proceed with the proceedings, the whole procedure is impossible. Therefore, the law assumes that if the private accuser or the sub-indictor does not appear at the hearing, or because of his condition, it would be impossible to hold a hearing, he or she expresses that he no longer intends to pursue the proceedings. By virtue of the current legal presumption, such conduct should be regarded as an accusation or a withdrawal of an appeal. However, the term "indictment" does not give rise to the termination of proceedings in the second instance, according to the prevailing interpretation of the law at this stage of proceedings, not the prosecution, but the appeal determines the framework of the proceedings. And the term "revocation of an appeal" cannot be interpreted if the appeal is not lodged by the prosecution side. The problems of interpretation were also highlighted by the Constitutional Court when a failure to comply with the basic law was found in a case of substitution private law. During the preparation of the bill before you, a more comprehensive review was carried out than the deficiency indicated, as a result of which the bill regulates, in a coherent system, the grounds for termination in connection with the criminal conduct of the secondary and private proceedings. A minor element of the amendments to criminal proceedings is the introduction of provisions on delivery and motion for delivery in order to respond more effectively to criminal needs that can be enforced in winding-up proceedings. The provisions of the bill ensure that, in winding up proceedings, the State tax and customs authorities representing criminal claims may also make a motion to correct the decision errors they have detected in criminal proceedings. On the other hand, the bill makes the delivery rule currently contained in the government decree legal, which ensures that the State tax and customs authorities are informed of the criminal needs involved. In addition to the law on criminal proceedings, the bill also amends the law on criminal law measures applicable to a legal person. In this context, the bankruptcy law will be amended in order to ensure the unity of the interpretation of the law in relation to the scope of the regulation on criminal claims. Dear House, The third large group of the bill is made up of the amendments on the subject of prison execution, so let me say a few words about them as well. Maintaining the security of detention in the course of the activities of the prison organisation is of particular importance, such as preventing or preventing escapes or the violent behaviour of prisoners between themselves or towards personnel. [[18.10]] Most of the amendments to the Prison Enforcement Act serve to strengthen security features and are closely linked to the amendment of the Prison Enforcement Organisation Act. The bill establishes the legal basis for controlling entry and exit into, prevention of escape and the prevention and eradication of the operation of unmanned State aircraft in the area of the prison body. Uncontrolled communication of prisoners poses a serious threat to the security of detention and to the effectiveness of criminal proceedings in the case of arrested persons, and therefore, in order primarily to reduce mobile phones, the bill introduces as a new security measure the use of an instrument capable of identifying, identifying and restricting the whereabouts and use of an electronic communications device or information system held without authorisation. In the future, an electronic monitoring tool will also be used at the place of detention. A number of recordings recorded by the electronic surveillance tool used for security purposes in the prisons are provided by Bv. Law 150. may be used in the further procedure provided for in paragraph 5 of this Article. The investigation of the legality of the measure and the detection of infringements in the prison will be facilitated by the identification of the perpetrator by the amendment enabling the facial recognition system to be connected to the electronic monitoring device. Among the objectives of the amendment, it is of particular importance to develop targeted and complex information gathering activities to support the basic functions of the prison organisation, to enable effective action to be taken to detect and eliminate circumstances, phenomena, processes that undermine or threaten the safe functioning of the prison. In essence, the collection of information for the purpose of security risk analysis is a continuous information gathering, analysis and evaluation activity that can provide a more accurate picture of the detention staff, the processes encountered, illegal activities beyond the limits of criminality, security deficits in certain areas. It is important to point out that this activity has its limitations and that its use cannot be intended to detect criminal offences, as the instruments regulated in Be. can be used for that purpose. The authorised department may use the following means of gathering information: it may use a cooperative person, the prisoner, if he consents, may listen to the released prisoner, provide false or misleading information, use a trap that does not cause injury or damage to health. The bill also includes warranty restrictions on the means to be used, such as a prohibited object when using a trap, and neither the transfer of misleading information nor the use of a trap can lead to inciting. In connection with all these new instruments, the bill also addresses the issue of the processing of personal data. The forms of contact include reintegration leave, the duration of which shall be no more than five days after the three months following reception, no more than 10 days after the download of four months, and no more than 15 days after the download of five months. This legal institution is essentially a prelude to reintegration detention, can assist the prison judge in decision-making, comply with the rules on the remote monitoring tool. In addition, the bill contains a number of amendments to optimise implementation-related regulatory and procedural arrangements. Dear House, In addition to the three major codes, I should also mention the amendment concerning international and EU criminal cooperation legislation. Dear House, Mr President, Thank you for listening. I'm asking you to support the bill. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-11-09-156	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Mihály Balla. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-11-09-157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, As has been said in the proposal, it is necessary from time to time that criminal law laws be reviewed by the legislator in order to promote the objectives of justice. We have two proposals in this spirit right now. The first bill concerns the publication of an amendment to the Additional Protocol to the Convention on the Transfer of Convicted Persons in Strasbourg. The Amending Protocol sets out new directions for the issue of extradition in view of developments in international cooperation in the transfer of sentenced persons, and its content complies with Hungarian law. The Amending Protocol updates and improves the Additional Protocol in the light of developments in international cooperation in the transfer of sentenced persons, thereby making cooperation between authorities more flexible, faster and broadens the scope of sentenced persons covered by the forms of cooperation set out in the Additional Protocol. The rules on sentenced persons who have escaped from the court state will also be extended to cases where a final sentence of imprisonment voluntarily leaves the territory of the judge State and returns to the state of his nationality, knowing that he is being prosecuted or convicted legally. The other proposal, which is now being negotiated together, includes the amendment of eight criminal law laws, including the criminal code, and consequently eight sectoral laws, also focusing on modernisation aspects. Create more favourable legal conditions for the more efficient use of less restrictive and burdensome instruments, allow for a third-degree finding of different facts in the case of an opposing decision against an appeal, and update certain organisational rules for the enforcement of sentences in many other areas. In the case of drug trafficking, it introduces rules referring to the need of the Constitutional Court and amends the Criminal Code taking into account the concept of a prohibited performance enhancer and the criteria previously raised in the case of the abuse of dual-use products. The international law on legal aid in criminal matters also changes its rules on extradition. The amendment also takes into account the nature of detention abroad when counting the time of detention abroad into the penalty imposed by the court, which is in line with the first proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, Given the need for review and what the Secretary of State has said, the Fidesz faction supports the adoption of both legislative proposals and I ask you to support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-11-09-158	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr Gergely Arató. Here you go.
u2022-11-09-159	Thank you very much. Dear House, First of all, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his exhausting exposé, from which our fellow Members who might not have read the details of the bill before, but of course I accept that there was a partly justified explanation here, since, as usual, it is a proposal for a very wide variety of subjects to be dealt with in a law. This is not what I would call a salad law, because there is a certain logical link between the proposals, but it is simply a broad proposal and a wide range of areas. If you'll allow me, I think I would like to highlight, in principle, only three questions, which may also be of interest to the public. I wouldn't undertake to go through the bill in detail, paragraph by paragraph. In general, I can say that most of the amendments to the legislation on criminal proceedings and criminal law are indeed technical amendments. [[18.20]] Something that is trying to solve, and modify, life-changing situations and experiences with clear rules, so it is not necessarily against us. On the other hand, I would like to talk about three issues, two in short and one in length. One of the issues, for the sake of simplicity, is the question of the drug list. Indeed, it is a long-standing problem in professional and professional circles that, as the structure of drug-related crime has changed, new and new substances are constantly being introduced into this market if this can be put into practice, where very often only relatively small molecular changes have a similar or more serious impact and, in the case of the most dangerous substances, this change is very rapid and very difficult to follow, so the type of legal simplification proposed here by the billmaker to the legislators can be considered reasonable and indeed better suited to the need for clarity than to the situation so far. Although I fear that government decrees are rarely read either by dealers or consumers, but, for example, by law enforcement, police officers, courts and prosecutors, it will make it much easier for them to start from a clear list of prohibited substances in a certain period of time. What we have doubts about here is double, and interestingly, the two aspects are partly contradictory. But I think that, by the way, these can be addressed with detailed regulations, with good practice. One aspect is that we have concerns about the extent to which these decisions will follow professional rationality, and in Hungarian, the Ministry of Interior, when it issues this regulation, will only technically introduce international rules or changes in international legislation; this is also a simplification. At the same time, it should be considered that, not in the form of a split-off, and not in an office on the third floor of Széchenyi Square, but in the light of appropriate professional consultations, it may be possible to make this change faster than the change to the international convention in the case of material exposed to criminal detection. In other words, if you find a new material that is clear about its purpose and can be justified from a professional point of view, it may be included in this list without waiting for it to go to the high UN or the World Health Organization, to be detected and returned there. Once again, I appreciate that the bill provides an opportunity to do so, but it must be avoided both extremes, because it must also be avoided that, from here on out, I am sorry to say so, but what a policeman does not like for some reason can be classified as a prohibited substance. Therefore, there must be an appropriate control and appropriate mechanism in this regard, which really ensures transparency, and indeed extends these prohibitions to those substances where this is technically, professionally, medically, policely, legally justified, and there are appropriate guarantees. The second question is the question of quacking. The only reason I would bring this up very quietly is because this is one of the things we discussed with your predecessor here in the House in 2020 when this rule was introduced. At the time, professional organisations drew attention, and we also called on the lack of regulation in the case of psychotherapy, which is why this became a matter of the Constitutional Court. Now it seems that the current regulation is a more sensible, more sensible regulation, as it integrates the element of deception in the case of psychiatry. He writes in it that if psychotherapist... I can't say that word, so if you're pretending to be a professional who doesn't have an adequate degree. This is an appropriate regulation, it would have been possible to avoid two and a half years of legal uncertainty if the predecessor had not been pushed through by force at the time. Finally, what I would like to say most is the rules on the enforcement of sentences. On the one hand, you can see how unfortunate the situation is, it may not be unfortunate that the execution of the sentence has been transferred to the Ministry of the Interior. Some of the people working in prison experience this as a negative change, because they are accustomed to belong to the Ministry of Justice according to Hungarian historical traditions. Others see the benefits of this. Both solutions can be argued in a governance structure. But it is very unfortunate that, according to your custom, legislation does not take place in a uniform system, but essentially in a ministerial capacity. Thus, some of the rules on prison execution, if I remember correctly, were discussed two weeks ago in the context of a terrible salad called certain public security laws, in which, for example, social law was included, another part of it is being brought in because it falls within the competence of your ministry. However, the review and debate of legislative proposals would also be significantly facilitated in this case, even in other cases, if laws on one subject were introduced in a single law. Penalty enforcement would have deserved to have the rules applicable to it discussed in a single rule out of the various laws. I am saying that he deserved it and that it would have been necessary, because if this had happened, I should not now say that, while a significant part of the changes that we are about to face are rationally adapted to the circumstances and rather facilitate the implementation of the sentence, it does not solve the fundamental problems in any way. After all, they have begun a completely unthinkable restructuring, which has already been partly carried out, but what they were trying to legitimise just two weeks ago with the introduction of agglomeration cooperation, which does not make so much sense in this form, apart from administratively removing the missing posts from the system. Why it is a agglomeration, and why it is not, let's say, organised by regions according to prison execution or other logic, is very difficult to say. What is the main problem, however, is that this legislation does not provide an answer to the fundamental problems of prison execution. It does not respond to the fact that a very significant part of the prisons are still in bad shape, and what is even more wrong is that they are still unable to offer attractive careers to people in prison, as a result of which there is a permanent shortage of staff. While a substantial and wage-plated increase was made in the military, the situation continues to be dealt with with ingenious proposals and ingenious payments in prison, which does not represent a predictable career in this otherwise very difficult profession. I would therefore urge the government not only to use surface treatment, not just reorganization, and not only to change in cosmetic or even important detail, but also to look at the situation of the execution of punishment in substance, because the situation of the execution of the sentence, in addition to the fact that, of course, the people serving there deserve much better treatment, is also important because the proper functioning of the execution of the sentence can, in good times, help to reintegrate, reintegrate, reduce the risk of repeat crimes, but also, in bad cases, if the execution of the sentence is working badly, it has a negative impact not only on crime but also directly on the population. We in Kőbány know this, whether it is a prisoner escape, or worse, do not give in the form of God, rebellions, other extraordinary events. I therefore urge the Government to be so kind as to face the situation of the execution of the sentence in substance and to bring forward substantive, comprehensive proposals for significant improvement to the Parliament. Thank you very much.
u2022-11-09-160	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Ms Hajnalka Juhász. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2022-11-09-161	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Both the T/1790 and the T/1837 bill are particularly important. The T/1790 Additional Protocol allows for the transfer of sentenced persons without the consent of the sentenced person in two cases in order to promote the objectives of the justice system and to facilitate the social integration of sentenced persons, in the case of convicts who have escaped from the judgmental state or in the case of convicted persons who have been expelled or banned. The fundamental objective of ratifying the current Amending Protocol is to modernise and further develop the Additional Protocol itself, thereby making cooperation between States Parties faster and more flexible. [[18.30]] The Additional Protocol also extends rules on a convicted person who has escaped from the judgment state to cases where the sentenced person voluntarily leaves the jurisdiction of the judge State and returns to the State of his nationality, knowing that he is being prosecuted or has been convicted legally. International and EU law on criminal cooperation are familiar with the so-called specialty rule. This apparent set of formalities, the principle of guarantee criminal law to eliminate it, in practice, means that the person who is subject to extradition cannot be prosecuted, convicted or otherwise deprived of his liberty for any other offence other than the one on which he was extradited. According to the current Additional Protocol, expelled or banned persons are protected by the specialty rule in the executing State, unless the Judge State authorises criminal proceedings, conviction and arrest for acts committed prior to transit. What is new in the Amending Protocol, however, is that it sets a period of 90 days for the court to decide on the granting of the licence and reduces the period of 30 days beyond which the protection provided by the specialty rule no longer applies to the sentenced person if, after his final release, he does not leave the territory of the executing State within that period or returns there again after leaving it. This will allow for speeding up extradition procedures and improving the effectiveness of international law enforcement. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The Amending Protocol has so far been ratified by seven Member States of the Council of Europe and by the Vatican, and has been ratified by Hungary in 2021. In order to implement the new rules as soon as possible, Hungary has stated, on the basis of Article 5 of the Amending Protocol, that it will apply the provisions of the Amending Protocol on a provisional basis prior to its entry into force. It is important to highlight T/1837. I am trying not to abuse the patience of my fellow Members on the legislative proposal to include amendments to eight criminal law laws and other sectoral laws. The need for changes is justified by feedback from law enforcement bodies, decisions of the Constitutional Court and EU and international obligations. I would like to briefly review the essential elements and specificities of the major legislative changes below. On the one hand, the amendment to the Criminal Code in order to comply with the requirement of norm law as indicated by the Constitutional Court, as Parliamentary Secretary presented in detail the clarifications on the definition of drugs and other psychotropic substances. In the context of criminal offences that violate the order of farming, including the experience of market surveillance procedures conducted by the Hungarian National Bank, there will also be an extension of the legal instrument protected by the facts of the unauthorized financial activity, which will also result in the pedalisation of further illegal activities. The Btk. The amendment also includes additions to the execution of life sentences and suspended sentences. It is important to mention the amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act. On the one hand, they are intended to support electronicisation in order to ensure the presence of persons involved in the procedure. For the purposes of criminal proceedings, e-accessibility makes it much easier for public authorities to contact the persons concerned and ensure their availability to conduct the procedure. These innovations also put the persons involved in the proceedings in a more favourable position, as the courts are less often forced to apply more restrictive measures, which will also save costs. The question of supplementing and correcting the facts in appeal proceedings is also amended, thus clarifying the differences between the addition, correction and the different facts. The bill also presented this in detail, Mr State Secretary, with a view to establishing a coherent regulation on private and secondary proceedings, which regulates the consequences of the conduct of the private accuser, the substitute private prosecutor and their representative, according to uniform principles. The amendments on the subject of prison execution are primarily intended to strengthen the security elements of high importance in the performance of the prison organisation's activities. Finally, the amendment of the law on international criminal assistance and cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union introduces new rules on the setting-up of detention in the framework of extradition or surrender procedures. In addition, the amendment also settles cases of foreign criminal aid where a person has to be transferred from a third State to Hungary through the territory of a Member State. These are important amendments, KDNP supports both legislative proposals. Thank you very much for your kind attention.
u2022-11-09-162	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Tamás Harangozó. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-11-09-163	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, As regards the bill on the announcement of an amendment to the Strasbourg Convention on the Transfer of Convicted Persons, the Hungarian Socialist Party supports that it will vote in favour, since the amendment itself makes international cooperation in this area faster and more flexible. It aims to promote the tasks of the judiciary and to promote the social integration of sentenced persons. We agree with all these goals and the instruments in the amendment of the Convention, and we will therefore support this. I cannot report such clear support in relation to the amendment of certain other laws on criminal matters and related thereto. I would also like to note that what has not been achieved by Mr Secretary of State in 30 minutes, I would not do so either, since it is a bill so extensive that I do not wish to go through every provision of it, and I could divide it into two parts, in a humiliating way. One: those, even from the justification of the bill, are excellently professional proposals, i.e. we can read a thorough and truly comprehensive justification in this law, if only we could see it in other laws, which are rules relating to the fulfilment or the correction of our obligations regarding drugs, detention of offences, Btk.-, Be.-, otherwise EU harmonisation. This includes the rules relating to the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decisions, and there are a lot of regulations, both in criminal proceedings and in bv, that could be seen to have been born in-house, so due to the feedback from law enforcement and the people responsible for the day-to-day implementation of the law, there is practical improvement or concreteisation of the rules. So here's the bill I've been telling you, I think if it were about 80 percent of the total, we'd even vote for it. However, I would also like to go to a part, Mr Secretary of State, which I do not understand, what you are doing here, and I would also like to confirm the criticism that my fellow Member Arató said here, that we had not so long discussed another law, where the system of organisation for the execution of sentences, if I remember correctly, was drawn up in a few paragraphs of a hundred and sixty-page bill. Now, in this bill, a lot of other rules are being amended in relation to the daily life of prison execution. This is indeed unworthy, on the one hand, and on the other hand there are two parts of the proposal, either indirectly or specifically, of the bill and its justification, admitting the huge problem that exists within the prison system today. [[18.40]] As far as metaphorical issues are concerned, from here on out, you will be prohibited from talking about anything that happens in there after every prison employee has been disarmed. And that's almost literally understood. The bill states that they must retain all information that the Bv institution does not have to publish. Please tell me what they're hiding in the Ministry of the Interior. What is it that a prison staff member or even a decommissioned staff member after his decommissioning or in employment, which obviously does not belong to the category of secrecy or to the category of security of the institution, can not say beyond that? So you can't tell me if it sucks. [[Sic!]] I'm sorry about the food in the cafeteria? You can't tell me if your commanders are otherwise treating him inhumanely? [[Gergely Harvesto: How many overtimes do you have?]] Or how many overtimes he's had or how long he hasn't been paid? And this is recorded here by law. I have nothing to say but some of this area for a few years, and obviously speaking to the workers there, it is quite obvious that the conditions are unsustainable for the executive staff as well. I'm not talking about the prisoners right now. In particular, there are unsustainable conditions for the people working there because of the shortage of staff, because of under-financing, and also because of the overload of the institutions. They've been doing this for years. They always squeeze something, they take some rights away from them, they mess with them, and they react by letting more people down. I've told you many times about the prison, the police, and even the firefighters that there's no way to do this, and that's just gonna cause a bigger problem. And obviously, just because they don't talk about a problem doesn't mean they don't. As long as it's in this law, I obviously don't think it's possible to vote for it. Which is another point in this bill, which is often described as a justification, and, Mr. Secretary of State, although I know that you are not overseeing the execution of the sentence now, but as a rapporteur, you know why these are written in the explanatory memorandum; they are not often specifically described as a reference to why something needs to be changed on the rules: because the Bv organisations have a huge burden. There is a huge number of people, these turns are included in the justification; because of the high number of prisoners, it is also necessary to decide on food, complaint handling or the increase in the number of hours of unpaid work. Mr. Secretary. In this Parliament, I don't know by heart, but about a year and a half ago, we made a decision, this House made a decision, it was submitted by the government, and it was voted well, even a small campaign was launched to bring the overload of the prisons to 100 percent. Then an expansion of this containerized Bv-Institute started, and at the end, as usual, they announced that everything was okay, everything was done, everything was great. Now, can you tell me, Secretary of State, what percentage of the number of prisoners in prison is overburdened? Why in this bill do you refer to the fact that there are a lot of rules that have been overloaded by the institutions, if state propaganda has already announced that everything is okay in this area, because they have built up those container-based Bv institutions? So one of them isn't true. And the same rules may help the day-to-day life of bv, but that the overloaded stock and the overload of over 100 percent will not be dealt with, that's for sure; so until we have an answer to this latter... And I would really ask the Secretary of State, if you have any information, if you have any information, to comment on this in your closing statement, or perhaps ask a colleague if you can get information, specifically, on the extent to which the Bv institutions are overloaded, why these rules should be changed on this basis. If these two parts specifically were not in the bill to change the life of the people working in the penitentiary, we would even vote for the whole thing. Thank you so much for listening.
u2022-11-09-164	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr László Lukács György Group Leader. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-11-09-165	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to highlight only a few essential elements concerning the amendment of the law concerning Be., Btk. and bv., which I think is important in addition to the criticism that has been said; some of it is something that can be supported, and some of it is something that Jobbik has been thinking and speaking out for a very long time, unbroken and on the side of the legal order. One of them was design drugs, so let's just say that the fight against the plague of our time or modern-day plague, because drug use and the spread of light drugs and designer drugs are basically an epidemic, a modern epidemic, with which it was very difficult for the legislator to fight. We have also put forward proposals and amendments in health-related legislative proposals, and it was clear that the criminal justice system itself will have to do something about this issue, in particular by the fact that there have been shortcomings in the application of law and court proceedings in this regard, and a recent decision of the Constitutional Court has shown that Parliament is failing as a legislator. That is why we are pleased that a clear and clear rule will finally be put in place, and the concept of designer drugs and drugs themselves can be seen much clearer in the coming period, because this may result in a much clearer picture being given in all cases where it has been very difficult for law enforcement agencies and the courts to decide and enforce what is essentially the behavior in question, and that the substances that the perpetrators have used and can therefore be condemned for the distribution of drugs or even for their use. At last, all the substances that have been considered drugs, the lack of which so far has been very problematic in the case-law, will be found in a health and ministerial decree. On the one hand, we are complying with the call of the Constitutional Court beyond the deadline and we are meeting the very long-standing legislative need to resolve this clearly. The fight against light drugs and designer drugs is perhaps one of our most important social policy goals, which is not only a health but also a law enforcement goal, and therefore this part of the bill is certainly eligible, and it is therefore very sad that there are parts of the bill that are certainly not eligible. In such cases, the legislator is in a very difficult position to weigh and how to put the pro and versus arguments in a particular pan, the arguments behind and against which one has more weight and on which basis it can be said that the bill itself uses more than it hurts. And if we are talking about positive things, it is worth saying, in addition to criticism, that the legal institution for reintegration leave introduced into the Bv Act is expressly eligible, because this and this change encourages prisoners to behave properly in the Bv Institute. There was always a problem with how to maintain order. In the past period and thanks to the Bv workers Hungary has been free from the scandals of other European countries, which were related to the circumstances of the prison, the behaviour of those staying there and their way of life. Of course, the Bv amendment must also respond to the challenge of modern age that the changing form of telecommunications and communication has entered the bv, and we are now concerned that people in prison are committing crimes using their own phones and social media, and that the crime is essentially their own cell, and that the instrument of crime is a telecommunications device located there. There is therefore a need for progress in these areas. Perhaps the previous Bv-regulation did not give us the opportunity, but now there may be more and more opportunities for repeated criminal activity to be committed in the face of shame within the prison walls, but these can be controlled in some way. In the Be. amendment, it also makes communication more forward-looking and perhaps easier, so that both the loaded and the witnesses must provide their electronic contact details and report them. It was very common, and perhaps the coronal virus epidemic has shown that in some criminal proceedings it was almost impossible to properly set and hold a hearing because of the high number of common diseases, including the high number of people charged, the number of defenders, the number of witnesses to be heard, and to notify interested parties in the absence of these electronic contact details or other contact details. So this can also be a key to the rapid conduct of criminal proceedings and their effectiveness and success. [[18.50]] It is also worth saying that it is also positive that it will be possible to establish a difference of facts at a third instance in the case of the contested decision. So far, this practice has been quite inconsistent and different in criminal courts, although many judges may consider what it is to do with it and what it is to do with it, but ensuring uniform judicial practice in criminal proceedings, in particular, is a very important objective and a very important interest for both the legislator and the legislator. Overall, in addition to the criticisms that have already been mentioned and mentioned by my fellow Members, which I do not wish to repeat in order to manage your time a little bit well and not to abuse it, all these criticisms combined, the positive measures are still in the pan, so that it is very difficult to decide whether this bill can be supported. We will still need a lengthy persuasion and a lengthy debate by the Commission, perhaps amendments, to make this proposal acceptable to us. Thank you very much.
u2022-11-09-166	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The lead speaker of the group of our country is Mr István Apáti. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-11-09-167	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, On the basis of practical problems, I would like to approach the package of proposals on criminal law and start immediately by using prisons or a summary term with a very significant overcrowding of prison institutions. It was right that decisions were taken a year and a half ago to stop the so-called herring money, since, in practical cases, a business or industry run by well-known, well-trained lawyers was established that prison overcrowding allowed them to leave with compensations of up to millions, such as criminals who, after filling their sentences, were either in practice a professional category of criminals or could otherwise be said to have made no profit in their lives but to have done more harm to victims who had been or have been attacked. This was absolutely outrageous, but we know that in the long term, the solution to prison overcrowding will only be the creation of seats, the expansion of existing institutions or the construction of new institutions. Sometime in the region of 2015-16, you planned to build nine new prisons or penitentiary institutions with great momentum, with a budget of around HUF 240-250 billion at that time. In addition, North-East Hungary would have benefited from three of these locations. I understand that during the construction period, jobs are created in these disadvantaged areas, and the operation of prisons is a kind of boom for the wider living environment or for a particular walk. These three locations in Northern Hungary would have been Ozd, Kemecse and my hometown, Csenger. It is not known when the construction of the nine new institutions was reduced to three, and we do not even really know which three more institutions were left in the basket. All we know is that these three fell down to one, so there was one out of nine. That, I might add, thank God, would have been the penitentiary at the bell. To the best of my knowledge, the procurement procedure may have been declared successful by a second run, the repeated procedure, and the contract has also been concluded. To my knowledge, it contains an option validated until 31 December 2022. If, by the end of this year, it is about six weeks, it does not end with a positive sign, so it can start, say, at the beginning of 2023, to build the prison in Bell, then another procedure must be carried out, or the construction of this institute will go into an uncertain, distant, foggy future. All you know is that the originally planned bellery facility for 500 seats would eventually have a thousand people, so it would be closer to Tisalök's level, and a very high-security prison would be built. Needless to say, Mr State Secretary, although you hardly know our neighbourhood at close range that the Chenger district is the poorest area of the whole country, not one of the poorest or the poorest, but the poorest district of Chenger, the smallest district of the country, and the further operation of a state investment with 500 employees, as a prison operation, could lead to a clearly visible recovery and development. But it seems that my hometown, or the constituency that's on the top 5 or top 10 list for you, doesn't deserve that much. It seems that neither the district has the capacity to shift such an investment, even though the Prime Minister promised this on 4 May 2017 at the inauguration of the district school in Beller. The Prime Minister has given his word of honour to this, however, there has been no cutting of a hoof, nothing has yet been done in connection with the building of a prison. So I can't distract myself from this, or I can't help but look them in the eye when we're discussing such legislative proposals. Of course, our country can agree that the achievements of modern technology or technology are used either by using drones or by using technical tools used for tracking or blocking, because, on the one hand, it has in exceptional ways violated or further undermined the authority of the uniformed stock, the effectiveness of the work of professional bvs and their relationship with the convicts at all everyday times, that, as has been said here in the various video-sharing portals, even a series of videos containing boxing or other sports demonstrations or lectures on various forms of crime. I'm sorry for the expression, I can't say it any more beautifully, but they've made a fool or a monkey out of respected bvs many times, apart from their own faults, who obviously have very limited powers or opportunities to prevent or detect such acts. On the one hand, there is an increasing shortage of numbers within the stock, growing discontent, increasing underpaidness. (The chair was appointed by Dr. Lajos Oláh, Vice-President of the Parliament.) It is therefore very important that, where possible and with as much money as possible, the use of tools that block the communication between existing mobile phones and other technical devices, whether in prison or between different bv institutions, or, above all, to organize criminal life in the outside world from within the prison, this, unfortunately, has been very easy for organised criminal circles for many decades, it is very easy to operate. If this is blocked by technical means and existing instruments are found, let's say, by means of means suitable for detection, the effectiveness of prison execution will be greatly improved. At the same time, a question that is no longer specifically executed in prison has to be addressed here, but rather linked to criminal proceedings, which is a question of a ban on seriousisation. A rather complex regulation is now being introduced by those who will take a legal exam, especially a criminal law examination, after the entry into force of this regulation, and they will need to be properly tied up in order to be able to successfully complete this obstacle in the light of the new, large-scale regulation. Here again, let me share my practical experience with you in connection with a crime, at least famous in our area, which, by the way, is an attempt to commit an extremely serious crime of manslaughter, which was otherwise recorded by surveillance cameras. More than ten credible witnesses were present in the case, however, after eight and a half years the final judgment was delivered, and the following was the case, and the following courts made their judgments in the following order. There is not a sentence of exaggeration in my words: Nyíregyháza Tribunal, Debrecen Court, Curia, Debrecen Court of Justice, Curia, Debrecen Court of Justice, Debrecen Court of Justice. It was like a pinball machine like this, if it wasn't the bullet, it was the process of the case files, it was going through the different courts, and it was exactly what the Secretary of State was talking about. The Nyíregyházi Tribunal was able and was able to correctly classify the act that a third year's law student would say that what we see in video footage could be nothing but an attempt at manslaughter. Nevertheless, the Debrecen Court of Justice, its President at that time, was able to classify this as a life-threatening assault and to impose suspended prison sentences which are virtually equivalent to immunity, in comparison to the imprisonment of all defendants of the Nyíregyháza Tribunal. [[19.00]] Then the Curia dismissed this case, and then the Debrecen Court of Justice gave a second time a completely unprofessional judgment based on an absolute wrong rating, which was almost ridiculous, and when the case came to the Curia for the second time, it was possible to set the Debrecen Judgment Board in such a way that a brand-new council had already been able to beat the eyes of the decision-makers from the first minute, and could have closed this procedure years earlier. As a result, we managed to sentence at least three of the nine perpetrators to five years imprisonment each, which was still rather mild compared to the gravity of the crime, but at least so much could be said that some tangible adverse legal consequences came from the shameful act they were able to commit in the crossfire of surveillance cameras. In this way, it is not impossible at all to say that such an adjustment to the prohibition of seriousisation may have its place in exceptional cases, since life, as I have just said, and the case law has produced a case of law and a procedure of eight and a half years, for which even experienced legislators behind the desk can't expect very much in advance, simply in a strange way. In any case, I would be happy if such legal cases were taught at least in the legal faculties and then in criminal training, because they provide a great deal of lessons, especially for law students who later, say, want to go to or imagine their future there. So the impressions and feelings of the Hungarian Movement on this bill or package of proposals are quite mixed, and our final position will be established later. Thank you.
u2022-11-09-168	Thank you, Congressman. I don't see any further comments. I'll ask the Secretary of State if you'd like to respond. [[Dr. Répássy, Robert: Briefly.]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2022-11-09-169	Dear House, I would just like to point out that I can respond in detail to what Members have said at a further stage of the debate. Thank you very much.
u2022-11-09-170	Thank you to the author. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill for amending individual laws in relation to public data until closure. The government referral is T/1786. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Répássy, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2022-11-09-171	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Data are generated in large quantities by public bodies in their operation. The common feature of these is that they are legally managed by public and municipal bodies, are only available in the public sector, and a significant part of them constitutes data of public interest and can be known free of charge to anyone. We are living in an increasingly data-driven society. Public data has market value. The analysis and exploitation of data and the continuous development and deepening of this capacity are essential for the social and economic development of the region. If these data are processed, new information can be obtained that can contribute to the creation of new products and the introduction of services, which has a competitive and economic stimulus effect. If an undertaking uses the data for research purposes, its overall social benefit is indisputable. In 2012, the House adopted the first independent Hungarian law on the recycling of public data, which allowed access to public and municipal registers and databases from 2013 onwards, so that they could be processed and recycled for scientific or even commercial purposes by those requiring data for an established fee. The Open Data Directive adopted in 2019 is a novelty of the EU Directive 2019/1024 on open data and the re-use of public sector information to make access to so-called high value datasets free. This includes spatial information, earth observation and environmental, meteorological, statistical, business and mobility public data, which are considered to be of high value because experience shows that they have great commercial potential. Detailed rules for these data circuits will be laid down by the European Commission. The Open Data Directive has further broadened the range of recyclable public data, which should now include data from public undertakings operating in the water, energy, transport and postal sectors that are related to the performance of these sector public tasks and data from publicly funded research that has already been published. To achieve the above objectives, T/1786 on the amendment of individual laws in relation to public data before you. Bill No.1, which transposes the provisions of the Open Data Directive into the domestic legal order. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill creates a set of rules that fully harmonise with EU law. The bill serves to expand the range of recyclable public data. In view of what has been said, I would like to ask the honourable Members that T/1786. To discuss and then to support its adoption. Thank you for your attention. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-09-172	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Péter Agh, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2022-11-09-173	Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill, as we have heard, serves to transpose the Open Data Directive on open data and the re-use of public sector information into domestic law. The transposition of the Open Data Directive is not without precedent. Its basic provisions and rules of procedure are currently included in the Public Data Act, which provided for the transposition of the PSI Directive, which was previously adopted and applied. The aim of the introduction of the Open Data Directive is to encourage Member States of the European Union to use public sector-produced and managed data assets in a more extensive manner, and to facilitate the efficient recycling of high-value public data sets, using advanced digitalisation tools, thereby making data available free of charge, in real time, through computer connections, in an electronically processable form. The extension of data that can be made available for data recycling should be highlighted in the proposal. According to the rules of the Open Data Directive, domestic legislation also names the relevant sectors. This includes data from publicly funded research that has already been published and data from public undertakings operating in the water, energy, transport and postal sectors related to the performance of these sector public tasks. The importance of the proposal is shown by the fact that we are increasingly living in a data-driven society. Data are now of great value and are a driving force for the digital economy. One of the accompanying phenomena of the information revolution that continues today is the surge in data volumes. Smart data use affects all sectors of the economy. The use of public databases can make a significant contribution to the development and application of new technologies. The recycling of public data also contributes to economic development and GDP growth. The role of artificial intelligence in the processing and analysis of large quantities of public data is also becoming increasingly important. Dear House, In view of what has been said, I would ask my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[19.10]]
u2022-11-09-174	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to László Sebian-Petrovszki, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2022-11-09-175	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Anyone who has been monitoring our work and the topics that have come before us in the last few months, before this House, may feel as though the question of the publicity of data and the question of the expansion of data is a recurring subject. Last time we closed a rather heated debate here yesterday on a proposal for publicity of data of general interest and for legal proceedings on them, and even a vote was taken, but a few months earlier there was a similar type of presentation before us. These situations arise from what my colleague, who spoke before me, said that the data itself, the amount of data, is increasing, and the possibility of storing, connecting and providing information to citizens in a well-functioning democratic state must be constantly addressed. And obviously, it is also necessary to deal with how certain types of data, which are considered to be public information, can be obtained properly, but with greater certainty, even to the average citizen. So these proposals allow us to think about how we relate to this situation; in Hungarian, the data that surrounds us and we are talking about public data, how and how we make it available to citizens. It will not be a secret what I say, because this is what you have heard from me several times: DK is of the opinion that all the data relating to any government action from taxpayers' forints should be made public. So we are calling for a regulation that would require all this type of data to be understood here, whether contracts, invoices and similar types of documents containing similar depth data should be made public in the first place, and certain data should now be published without further delay, not just financial data, but other aggregated data relating to operations requiring any kind of citizen interest. So the general approach for us is that all public data must be public and we should go to such regulations. That is why I also fought in yesterday's debate on the presentation that the lawsuits for data of general interest should not be talked about how those lawsuits would be faster, but about how they would not be lawsuits, because of how all data could be made public. I do not deny that there is a more theoretical approach to this, a more theoretical reason, namely that in a well-functioning democracy, one way to control government is to include data on government operations, including financial type data, and all other data must be made public. In other words, the possibility of controlling the government is related to how and how the public can be connected to the data disclosure in Hungarian. In this matter, this government has done badly in the last 12 years. He did badly, because today we live in a country where I repeat this type of data: the data, financial data, accounts, contracts, and even other types of non-financial data that this government, the Orbán government, has been trying to hide over the past 12 years. He tries to hide it by all means, by applying the existing rules flexibly, and by going to the border, which is provided by the framework of the rules. When it was possible to stop data requests for two 45 days during the Covid period and 45 days to reply, the 45 days were typically used by public offices and authorities. When it was possible to refer to a business secret, it was referred to. When it came to any other way, it was, of course, applied to the matter of pre-decision material or information, and that is why they refused the release, or even encrypted something in particular, in order to make sure that the citizen could not enforce that particular need in any way, to know the information he felt important to him. We live in such a country, so when we talk about how positive this proposal is when we are discussing this concrete proposal, it is not about how positive the government has put forward, because we are actually talking about the transposition of an EU directive. Therefore, if the Union had not brought such a directive, which the government would be forced to transpose, I am quite certain that this proposal would not be here before us. I'll add, of course, the government has done everything in its power to delay this time. We are talking about a directive born in the summer of 2019, and now we are writing November 2022, so for three years this question has been drawn about how and how research data and other similar types of information can be requested, how to access it, or if it already has a fee, then the regulation also concerns how this fee can be determined, possibly how to reduce or increase it. The point is, therefore, that the directive itself is a good step in the right direction, the transposition of which is important, to be supported in the Hungarian legal order and is certainly beneficial for citizens, even if research data are not included in the scope of what citizens would necessarily like to know by requesting data to do so. However, we also need to see that this whole issue would not be before us if it had been on the government. Because, in fact, this effort is not honest, it is not because the Orbán government wants to build a better country, and as a tiny part of that, it wants to give citizens some freedom in data request and access to data, but instead they try to bring such proposals here as fig leaves in their 12-year secretive behaviour. So once again, I say that the proposal is forward-looking, the directive is good, the transposition of the directive is useful, but at the same time, we are aware that politically there are other reasons for this, not that the government wants to put this issue in order and make it work. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2022-11-09-176	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Hajnalka Juhász, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2022-11-09-177	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, T/1786. Proposal No 13, as has already been said, serves to transpose Directive 2019/1024 of the European Parliament and of the Council on open data and the re-use of public sector information into national law. Directive 2003/98/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the re-use of public sector information, the so-called PSI Directive, is the background of the so-called Open Data Directive. The Open Data Directive replaced and repealed this legislation. The basic provisions and procedural rules of the Open Data Directive are currently included in our 2012 law on the recycling of public data, which implements the provisions of the PSI Directive into Hungarian law. The transposition of the Open Data Directive into Hungarian law should be implemented by amending the Public Data Act and the International Data Property Act 2021. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill leaves the structure, principles and fundamental provisions of the Public Data Act unchanged, but the basic rules on remuneration to be established by public bodies do not change. [[19.20]] Among the most important changes to the proposal, it should be pointed out that, on the one hand, there is an increase in the range of data that can be made available for recycling. This includes data from certain publicly funded research and data from public undertakings operating in the water, energy, transport and postal sectors related to the performance of sectoral public tasks. A new element in the proposal, which is worth highlighting, is the need to ensure real-time access to the electronic public registers that are updated in real-time, so-called dynamic data when making available for recycling. The third most important innovation is the typing of so-called high value datasets, i.e. the main collection categories of public datasets whose recycling brings important benefits for society, the environment and the economy, as they allow the creation of services and jobs with added value. The main types of these high value datasets include, for example, spatial information, certain environmental data, meteorological and statistical data, for which detailed rules will be laid down by the Commission in the form of implementing acts, and it is therefore important to amend the bill. KDNP supports it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-11-09-178	Thank you. I give the floor to Tamás Harangozó, the lead speaker of the MSZP group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-11-09-179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Indeed, the proposal is for compliance with Directive 2019/1024 of the European Parliament and of the Council on open data and the re-use of public sector information and for its domestic application. We fully agree with the content and purpose of the directive. Moreover, we can also agree with the specific legislation on the transposition of this into domestic law, and we agree. Easier access to public data, as has been said, is either easier to use by scientific researchers or even from an economic point of view in all EU Member States, including those living in Hungary, workers or researchers, and may even promote our role in world competition. In any case, it is important and good, and it is therefore eligible. However, I cannot go without saying, Mr Secretary of State and my fellow Members of the Government, that, by the way, Hungary is neither a European nor a rule of law in terms of public data. It's pretty amazing what's happened in this area over the last 12 years. After I had the pleasure of living as a Member, I myself experienced how almost every driver's license was taken point by point, how they abused their power, and how they hindered access to these public data, which, according to Hungarian law, are still the same. Not to mention how this institution, the Hungarian Parliament, has been used in recent years to classify so far public data simply as non-public or even secret, and then to hide a lot of parts of the operation of the Hungarian state, even though everyone would have the right to know why and how it works. In addition, you systematically obstructed not only the Members of Parliament, but also the rights of the press or interested citizens to know why, how, and what you have spent the public money collected from Hungarian citizens, or what kind of government decisions, wrong decisions, or even liability or failure to take responsibility are behind certain scandalous cases. I myself was not obliged to go through such a lawsuit in court as a Member of Parliament, because, as a Member of Parliament, the Agricultural Ministry showed me, for example, a large sum of money when, at the time, 500 million forints were accidentally lost through the Hungária brokerage company with the public money, the Hungarian people's money. Of course, the people who made it disappear, as far as I know, are in criminal proceedings, I mean, the company, I don't know, the case is over. But the fact that the Ministry and the Hungarian people's money, 500 million forints, could get into such a capital fund and how brokers could eliminate the Hungarian public money simply couldn't be found out. It took the final decision of the Hungarian court, I would add, that was not enough, a criminal complaint had to be made, so that, in the end, the liquidator would release the data at all. It's not public data management, it's simply a violation of the law. Once again, another very important and very sad phenomenon is the fact that so far, you are constantly not declaring public information or even encrypting it with the power of the law. It is just the example mentioned in the law that we have just discussed, the prohibition of prison staff from telling us anything they see at work, the laws of this type show how ridiculous this is. However, the chimbrandt of this is the extension of the deadline for the issuance of data of general interest by reference to an emergency provision. Of course, we know why: because they simply want to buy time and deceive people. There's no other reason. A ministry that can't release a public interest data within 15 days obviously can't release it if it doesn't want to, 30 or 60 days. In fact, it wasn't the government's burden in any case, but that you want to get away with sensitive matters that you know aren't okay. To this day, this country still doesn't know what decisions you made during the Covid defense, how much money you squandered, how you made decisions. They were kind enough, if I remember correctly, to arrange for such a decree, so that no one, I don't know, would have access to it for 20 to 30 years. Now, this is not public data management, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a European and not a rule of law, what is going on in this country. Obviously, this directive, perhaps, will not affect political public data, government public data, but will be able to help citizens of the European Union, companies and researchers living here, in the field of scientific life and the economy, perhaps improve this part of the situation, so we will obviously support this part of it. Thank you so much for listening.
u2022-11-09-180	Thank you, Congressman. I am looking around: no one has applied for any further speeches, so the general debate is closed. I ask the rapporteur, and he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: Yes.]] I see you've stood up, Secretary of State. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-11-09-181	Thank you, Mr. President. I just want to give you a brief answer. I expected that the practice of data of general interest would reappear in the context of this bill, but let us be clear that this bill is not about that or exactly that. But since you have expressed your views on data of general interest, I would like to share my experience with you. The debate and, in many cases, the dispute that comes before a court is mainly about whether the data that requires data, data of general interest or data of non-public interest. So it is not that the Hungarian State or the Government does not want to give, it does not want to publish these data, but disputes that it is data of public interest. [[László Sebian-Petrovski: And it turns out to be!]] Yeah, in some cases, it turns out that in some cases it doesn't, because there are times when the court rejects the demand for data in the public interest, but it doesn't usually get so publicized by the press. So I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is not true that in all cases public interest data must be enforced by court because, I say, this is a controversial question. Believe me, in many cases it is questionable, or at least legally, to determine which data are of general interest and which data are not. Or, for example, whether the controller is obliged to produce new data, such as statistics, for the data seeker. That's debatable, there's been a lot of disputes. Of course, the view that everything should be public, that is roughly the position of the opposition, of course, cannot be held, because what we should actually do is that everyone should be able to sit in the offices every day and look at all the documents, look at all the documents. [[19.30]] However, in this way, an official operation cannot be imagined that all documents are public, obviously contain a number of personal data, a number of data required for the operation of the office, but not in the public interest. So I think that you are not looking at this activity in good faith, but that you think that every public body always has a bad attitude towards these public interest data requests. I can't confirm that, I can deny it. I believe that a number of data of public interest have been provided by public authorities, and that the government is issuing data of general interest in a number of cases. The number of cases where these cases are brought to justice is small. I can't tell you, but it's basically a few percent of all data requests that end up in court. In more than 90 percent, without any dispute, the government and government authorities provide data of public interest. That's what I'm asking you to consider. What the bill was about, obviously, is that there are public records that have assets. This has been recognised by the Hungarian Parliament for a long time, it has already decided before, a law has been passed on this, essentially the concept of national data wealth has already been created, the national data wealth is subject to any data that someone later uses for business purposes or uses for other purposes. There is now an EU regulation in this regard. We have decided, of course, to implement this directive, more precisely: to adopt it, to transpose it into Hungarian law. This is how we transpose it, as this bill has been tabled. I very much hope that, despite the fact that you have reservations about the government in general because of the issue of data of general interest, I very much hope that you will support the transposition of this directive itself, because this directive points towards freedom of information, the transposition of the directive strengthens the freedom of information, which is why I ask you to finally vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-09-182	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. A general debate on the bill on the amendment of individual laws in the context of bureaucracy and harmonisation will follow until closure. Government referral T/1847. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I give the floor first to Mr Csaba Latorcai, Secretary of State, the author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2022-11-09-183	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill you have in your hands contains a number of amendments to the law. These legislative amendments are typically combined with the common goal of reducing bureaucracy and promoting harmonisation, based on the practical experience of the past period, and of aligning laws with changing social, organisational and technical conditions. Allow me to explain in detail the planned changes to each law. The bill amends the law on the processing and protection of health and related personal data. One of the objectives of the amendment to the Act is to extend the retention period for the electronic health service space, the central event catalogue and the health profile data. In respect of data processed for data subjects in the EES, the health data protection law determines the maximum period of retention of stored data, after which the data should be deleted. Those periods have been set out in respect of the purpose of supply. However, as regards the central event catalogue and health profile data, it is necessary to start deleting the event catalogue and e-profile data of persons who died in 2017 after 1 November 2022 on the basis of existing regulations which differ only in view of the exceptional legal order. In order to achieve the objectives of health policy, it is necessary to extend the availability of data for the purpose of scientific research. The bill therefore changes the retention period for the central event catalogue and health profile data from 5 to 10 years after the death of the data subject. At present, the retention period for health insurance data recorded by the health insurance undertaking and the data recorded in the EES differs from that for the health insurance undertaking the time limit for anonymisation begins 30 years from the date of entry. The amendment also provides for a period of protection similar to that for the health insurance undertaking. The new rules on the processing of data relating to the EES shall also apply on the day of 1 January 2023 in respect of data already processed. Dear House, The amendment to the law on compulsory health insurance fundamentally changes the functioning and reporting arrangements of employers with a social security paying position. In order to reduce the administration of sickness and child-related benefits, we propose facilitating electronic contact and reducing the reporting of financial benefits for health insurance. To this end, we also propose to establish a single register containing relevant data on health insurance cash benefits, which is also available to citizens. Thanks to this amendment, the paying-place accounts will be simplified and statistical reporting will cease. For employees of the insolvent social security paying agency, the State may pay sickness benefits, ged and other benefits. The bill allows for the creation of a single register, accessible to citizens as well as a single, credible, electronic administration, instead of a paper, e-mail or Excel table, and provides faster reimbursement of expenses and electronic administration. Dear Parliament, The government is in the interests of the Hungarian people first, so in recent months, in negotiations with the European Commission, we have made commitments that we have undertaken to implement in order to ensure that Hungary's resources are finally able to arrive in Hungary. The primary objective of the amendment to the Public Procurement Act is to remedy EU objections raised in the ongoing infringement procedure concerning the Public Procurement Act and ultimately to close the infringement procedure as soon as possible. The proposal adapts a number of Hungarian legal requirements to the concept of EU law and aims to adapt the Hungarian rules to the latest EU case-law. The two main points of the amendment concern the concept of support and the so-called national security exception. The repeal of the definition of aid contained in the Public Procurement Act and the clarification of the text of the exception relating to the country's fundamental security interests are also intended to ensure full adaptation of domestic legislation to the relevant EU legislation and consistency with the definitions set out in the Directive. Allow me to mention further elements of the bill for compliance with EU law. In order to comply with the proportionality requirement and the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the rules of the Public Procurement Act on access to documents are added. Under the new rule, if a contracting authority refuses access to a file on the grounds that the document concerned contains a business secret, it must also provide a justification. This may make it easier for the tenderer or candidate to bring an appeal. A further amendment, applying the principle of proportionality, will help to ensure that the tender is not invalid if the tenderer cannot be held liable for the conduct of a contributor. [[19.40]] Thus, the offer in which the tenderer can demonstrate that he did not know or, acting with due care, did not need to be aware of the false data provided by the subcontractors or capacity-providing organisations he intended to involve in the performance, the unlawful influence of the course of the procedure or the restrictive agreement on competition. In view of what has been said, it can therefore be concluded that the bill also contributes to ensuring that EU law on public procurement is in place in all respects when EU funds are used. Dear House, The bill amends the state tasks related to the development of Budapest and agglomeration and the implementation of certain improvements, as well as the SA.50768 on Hungary's film support programme. The Act amending the Act in conjunction with the Commission Decision No 1. On the basis of the Government Decree on the acceptance by the central budgetary body of the tasks of 100% owned by state-owned companies under the ownership rights of the Ministry of Construction and Investment and on the termination of companies, on the basis of the Government Decree on the settlement of related procedural issues, the State tasks of 100% state-owned companies subject to the ownership rights of the Ministry of Construction and Investment will be taken over by the Ministry of Construction and Investment as from 1 January 2023, given that the activities of these companies overlap significantly in the field of the preparation, organisation of public works and the operation of key public infrastructure. The purpose of the amendment of the law concerned is to perform tasks more effectively, to use budgetary resources more carefully, to exploit existing synergies, to clarify clearly the functions and to integrate them into the Ministry of Construction and Investment in order to simplify their operation. Dear Parliament, In conclusion, allow me to reiterate the following. The bill seeks to incorporate the needs raised in practice into the provisions of the laws concerned. The amendments also contribute to adapting the laws to changing technical, economic and social conditions and to maintaining their consistency with EU law. In particular, they make life easier for people, reducing the burden on businesses. I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill in agreement with these objectives. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-11-09-184	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now, surprisingly, the keynote speeches will take place. I give the floor to Lajos Mészáros, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Congressman, please.
u2022-11-09-185	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, Mr Csaba Latorcai, State Secretary, explained in detail what T/1847 is about. I would like to briefly highlight the main elements. This bill includes, inter alia, the 1997 XLVII on the management and protection of health and related personal data. the amendment of Law 6 to bring the period of protection for the patient's life in relation to the data recorded in the electronic health service space in ESZT and the health insurance data recorded by the health insurance undertaking. The proposal proposes a regulation similar to that of the EES, which will change to 10 years after the patient's death. The proposal also includes the results of a priority project titled the user interface of treasury systems and the renewal of the Treasury account management system and the reorganisation of administrative processes. The programme will reduce administrative obligations by the uniform digitisation of administrative systems supporting financial benefits for health insurance from 1 July 2023. In my opinion, technological solutions such as digitalisation of these administrative systems, digitalised sick roads, the use of different software or online administration continue to result in as rapid and high-quality care as possible and a reduction in administrative burden. The proposal before us also includes an IT system supporting the cash benefits of compulsory health insurance, e-Pell setting up a national single register, which will also be available to citizens in the future. This was necessary because there is currently no uniform register of cash benefits for health insurance. The bill before us is intended to remedy this, among other things. TB payers are currently sending data to the authorities through txt files sent in Excel tables, paper or e-mail. On the basis of the proposal, communication will take place through the widely used Company Gates and the Office Gates, which will allow paying agencies to obtain early reimbursement from the Health Insurance Fund. The new data provided in the proposal triggers the current social security account as well as monthly and quarterly statistical reporting. As a result, a significant reduction in the administrative burden is expected. According to the proposal, there will be a uniform national register, accessible to citizens, containing data on health insurance cash benefits for all insured persons, so that eligible public bodies and individuals will be able to obtain credible data from a single database. Under the proposal, natural persons will be able to further provide that they intend to communicate with the Authority on paper or by electronic means using a citizen's storage space in the future. We hope that electronic administration will replace the existing paper-based information, tax certificates, decisions, orders and the rest. This trend is expected to have a cost-cutting effect because paper-based tax certificates, for example, currently generate hundreds of thousands of outgoing documents on an annual basis. The proposal also addresses the problem that is based on the obligation to pay the benefits to employers who currently employ at least 100 insured persons, so that, in the event of the insolvency of the employer, the insured persons are not able to obtain the cash benefits due to them or only with significant delays. Therefore, in order to guarantee the payment of benefits, the proposal provides that if the paying agent is not able to carry out his social security duties, benefits may be paid by the government office, so that the employees of the insolvent employer can receive the sickness allowance, the lawn and the rest. The proposal also includes the 2015 CXLIII on public procurement. Law in short Kbt. the amendment of the directive, the substance of which is as follows. One of the fundamental objectives of the amendment is to address the EU's objections raised by the Commission, which can successfully contribute to the completion of the infringement procedure. The legislative amendments related to the adoption of two public procurement-related comments in the Commission's request include, inter alia, the current amendment. The first concerns subsidised contracts and the second concerns so-called national security exceptions. In the Commission's view, the current Hungarian legislation narrows the concept of aid compared to that of the relevant public procurement directive, given that it does not consider tax incentives to be aid. [[19.50]] The Commission also contested the transposition of the so-called national security exception under the relevant Public Procurement Directive during the infringement procedure: it considers that the extension of Hungarian law interprets the applicability of the exemption from the conduct of the public procurement procedure contained therein. On the basis of this, the term "National Security Interests of Hungary" has been removed from the definition of the exception, as a condition for exempting from public procurement, so the regulation only refers to the basic security interests. The amendment therefore provides that exemption from the obligation to conduct a public procurement procedure may be authorised by reference to the fundamental security interests of Hungary. The Kbt. It also includes a number of amendments to comply with EU law. First, I would like to mention the Kbt. supplementing its rules on access to documents. Under the new rule, where a contracting authority denies the possibility of access to a file from a tenderer on the grounds that the document concerned contains a business secret, the contracting authority will not be sufficient to refer to the fact of a business secret, but should communicate the essential nature of the information treated as a business secret, i.e. the type of information contained in the document in question and the manner in which the transfer of such information would be in the interest of the economic operator concerned. The obligation to state reasons may make it easier for the tenderer seeking access to the file or the candidate to seek redress against refusal of access to the file. I would like to say a few more words on the validity of the offer. As stated in the amendment, the offer in which the subcontractor or capacity body which the tenderer intends to involve in the performance provided false data or attempted to unduly influence the course of the procedure will not be automatically invalid, or the restrictive agreement may have been reached in the procurement procedure without involving the level of the bidder. Under the new legislation, the entire offer will not be invalid if the tenderer can demonstrate that he did not know, or by due diligence, that he did not need to know, of the unlawful act committed by the subcontractors or capacity-providing organisations or that the restrictive agreement, the offer or the application for participation, was not effectively affected at the level of the subcontractors. Therefore, the tenderer cannot be held liable for an act on which he did not have or should not have had information. I can say for myself that I recommend the adoption of the law. Thank you very much for listening, and I ask this House to support T/1847. Bill No. 1. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-11-09-186	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to László Sebian-Petrovszki, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-11-09-187	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Again, it is not for the first time that you are hearing from me the situation that we are seeing here again, which is that it is a salad law, a law that wants to amend many, many laws at once. This is always the trick of the government knowingly placing points among the many points to be amended that are not acceptable as opposition parties, opposition representatives, face rigid opposition. This is the creation of a conscious trap situation on the part of the government, which we experience regularly, and I always speak out. Let me do this now, fellow Members. There is, by the way, a section in this package of laws that actually amends and unites several laws, and then there are quite different themes. It is no coincidence that the name of this package is very strange: amendments relating to harmonisation of laws. Of course, the amendment to the law on harmonisation was the previous one we discussed here, and the one before that. But as far as the point is concerned, here is a package whose first half, let's say, and then I start with the positive end of my opinion, the first half is about cutting red tape, fewer burdens on citizens, partly on employers, so as far as possible, let's turn certain processes into electronics. There is, therefore, an effort towards electronicisation and electronic administration, at least one that can be read in the proposal. I can support this far and wide, it's an important and good direction. I have to say, we've been in it for decades. In comparison to this, in Hungary, we are still somewhere 50 years backward in time, in terms of electronic handling, how to turn off personal administration and handling on paper. So there's room for improvement, there's room for progress. Any proposal of this type meets with support from my side. In this package of proposals, too, I think these points are good. There is always a question of linking different existing databases and their use and access, whether there are guarantees that they are always competent and only those who have access to them, and only what employers really need, for example, or users, but the direction is good. Electronicization would be an important step to move forward in this. We should discuss and discuss further such proposals. There is a part of this issue that we rarely deal with, but we just have to deal with it. In today's Hungary, there are social groups whose electronicization does not make life easier, because either they are not so advanced in the use of devices that they have the ability to handle their affairs electronically, or because of age, let's say they are having difficulty with this type of administration, they are used to something quite different from paper-based personal administration. I also see a problem that the education system, which is bleeding from a thousand wounds, I don't want to discuss it, because it's not a topic for this debate right now, it certainly doesn't prepare today's students either in primary school or in high school for how they can handle their affairs electronically, while there's obviously no problem of using devices, I think they use their mobile phones more quickly and more quickly than all of us in this room, but they don't necessarily know, we haven't developed the skills that make them able to handle cases, citizen-type cases. Everyone will get there when they grow up to be needed. So here I see a lack of training, education, which we always forget when we are electronically electronically, that we should put this aside, so that these steps are really effective. But again, these steps are good steps in the right direction. I'm gonna go now, which is getting less and less good. He mentioned in his presentation the amendment of the Public Procurement Act. Well, you didn't say that you, you wanted to change that, but you immediately referred to Brussels. I get it. We know clearly what this government has done in connection with public procurement over the last 12 years, and I understand that all kinds of relief in their system, built up so far, has enabled you to pump public money and use it for Fidesz, is anything that violates it, anything that makes it more difficult, it hurts you. I totally understand that. Therefore, the amendment of the public procurement law in the package before us here also arises, reading this, as to how the intention, the declared intention, can be nicely heard, how business secrets can be made public and to some extent requested. In particular, the proposal is about not being able to answer that something is not being published, because it is a business secret, but it needs to be explained a little, put behind what the business secret contains. [[20.00]] That sounds nice, but I don't see that if you put behind it that the business secret is this or that, the data holder details why the system becomes more transparent, it won't release this data, but now we know in more detail what the data is that you don't publish. There is no guarantee in this bill or in this part of the bill, which would guarantee that the system will otherwise be clarified, otherwise public procurement will be more transparent, transparent, fairer and more honest. So let me make a strong criticism of that. Then there is the issue of what this proposal does not tell us about the burden of these types of amendments, such as the regulation on paying places, for example, on employers, on those who are not subject to simplification, for whom this does not mean easing things, but imposing certain rules on them. The proposal also deals with the fact that the establishment and operation of paying agencies has not been in fact regulated, in fact, there has been no uniform national regulation. Now there will be, it will be included in this package of proposals, but logically, there will be no other reason than that for some paying agencies, or at least to maintain the current operation, but there will certainly be operating paths, operating conditions that mean tightening them up compared to what is currently being used or to date. In such a case, tightening up always means an extra burden, an administrative burden, more hours of work. To give you a specific point: paying agencies will be required to provide certain information, it is included in the proposal. The provision of data clearly requires a labour force, someone has to do those data, put them together and solve that data. I understand that you say this, Mr Secretary, but in return, statistical data will not be provided, because it will be taken out, but it is not apparent from the presentation that if we put the changes pro and versus opposite side by side, then which sections of society increase this type of burden, or what additional costs this means for paying places. This would be absolutely necessary in order to decide whether otherwise this proposal will actually make life easier for people and stakeholders, or perhaps put extra burdens on them when we are experiencing the biggest economic crisis in the last thirty years. Finally, there is a specific part of this proposal that needs to be highlighted separately. This highlights the weirdness that, in fact, NIF, which has not yet had a non-profit rating and does not yet have a non-profit rating, i.e. National Infrastructure Development Ltd. and another similar company, BMS, Investment, Technical Development, Sports Management and Public Procurement Ltd., if I understand correctly, allow them to assume certain public tasks now. Therefore, there is a reduction in the bill in these two cases; it is being put into the bureaucracy reduction package. There is no detailed justification for why this is necessary. Obviously, the little devil does not sleep, especially in an opposition representative; this obviously raises the question of what the government is up to, what the government is up to, what it is now empowered to do, creating the possibility that these two companies will do. in the future, you will be able to take on certain public tasks that you have not yet been able to do. I would be very interested, Mr Secretary of State, please do tell me why this is necessary, because the proposal does not reveal this, but it is possible that this particular moment, which I referred to at the beginning, is that the peculiarity of such salad laws is always to in and out of the government's detailed rules, which will have a significant impact later on, but, of course, in the presentation, the government does not draw attention to this; in fact, there is the horse leg, but it does not hang out. I ask the Secretary of State to respond to these points. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-11-09-188	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Hajnalka Juhász, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2022-11-09-189	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary of State presented in detail the T/1845. I would like to briefly highlight the elements of the bill that are important for KDNP as well. The above bill aims to amend legislation on health data management, compulsory health insurance, social security financial funds, public procurement and certain territorial development. The Act on the Management and Protection of Personal Data on Health and related to Health is aimed, as the Secretary of State and my fellow Member have demonstrated, at bringing together data recorded in the electronic health service space and health insurance data recorded by the health insurance company, the period of retention for the patient's life. On the basis of this amendment, the period of protection will be uniform for 10 years after the patient's death. It is important to talk about the amendment of the law on compulsory health insurance, which essentially serves the purpose of reducing administrative burdens and digitising them. The submission will include relevant data on health insurance cash benefits for all insured persons by establishing an IT register that supports the cash benefits of compulsory health insurance, accessible to citizens, and citizens will be able to provide that they wish to communicate with the Authority on paper or by electronic means using a public storage facility. However, the state sector will also benefit from the innovations, as the changes will result in public bodies getting data on financial health insurance benefits much, much faster, which will increase the efficiency and predictability of budget planning. With regard to the amendment of the Public Procurement Act, the current amendment contains the legislative amendments related to the adoption of two comments on public procurement in the additional formal notice sent by the Commission in April this year. One observation relates to grant contracts and the other to so-called national security exceptions. In relation to the procurement of aid, the Hungarian legislation does not consider tax incentives to be a form of aid, but the Commission contested this argument on the basis of a European court decision in September 2013. In this case, the Luxembourg body stated that the concept of aid should include a tax advantage which allows for a reduction in the financing costs of the contract. Consequently, the tax relief may also constitute aid for the purposes of the Directive. In view of this, it is necessary to repeal the current concept of aid. The Commission's second comment relates to the national security exception. In the opinion of the panel, the Hungarian law interprets the applicability of the national security exemption from the conduct of a public procurement procedure. In view of the above, the term "National Security Interests of Hungary" is excluded from the definition of the exception category as a condition for exempting from public procurement, thus only the basic security interests will be referred to in the future regulation. Further amendments to the Public Procurement Act have been presented in detail, Mr State Secretary and my fellow Member, on the one hand, to supplement the rules on access to documents and, on the other, to include new provisions on the nullity of the offer. Important amendments, therefore, KDNP supports the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-09-190	Thank you. I give the floor to Tamás Harangozó, the lead speaker of the MSZP group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-11-09-191	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. Indeed, the proposal essentially contains issues relating to bureaucracy reduction, data processing and interpretation and amends seven laws in total. However, they have a practical significance that is not negligible in terms of their impact, especially that many of these will appear to be specific constraints for the citizens concerned. [[20.10]] In our view, there is also a provision that increases the risk of corruption. I would just like to mention these, as we can express my support in principle and our support here at the beginning with those truly forward-looking digitalisation databases and bureaucratic reduction proposals that facilitate the lives of both citizens and colleagues working in offices. We would like to draw attention to the small details, or, more than once, to text-switching or short, small-word, a few-word amendments, which will have the effect of avoiding money from people's pockets. We could assume after all this time, but we do not know whether these are deliberate, hidden proposals, simple restrictions, or this solution is being applied for something else. That's what I'm talking about now. One such package of provisions in the proposal is the XCVII on compulsory health insurance. It concerns the amendment of the law. These are basically a few words amendments, as I have just mentioned, but they also contain very serious content requirements and consequences. The reasoning of the proposal notes that the practice of the Court of Justice and the Constitutional Court applies, contrary to the original legislative intention, the rule that income can only be taken into account from the existing legal relationship and that it is therefore necessary to clarify it. Let me say here, however, that neither the court nor the Constitutional Court clearly has a good view of the world, nor does it interpret well the task of the state and its duty to care for its citizens, but you will now show them how it should be interpreted. What's this about? The Abtv. 39/A. (1) Paragraph 1 states in general that, for all cash health insurance benefits, only income from an existing legal relationship may be taken into account when determining the amount. If the insured person ceases to have an insurance relationship with an employer, it is not possible to take into account the income from the legal relationship with the former employer. The proposal states that it is a fundamental principle that in all cases the loss of income must be replaced by health insurance, which would also be possible when entitlement to benefits is opened. This essentially means that the amendment will reduce the amount of these benefits in these specific cases when, according to both the court and the Constitutional Court, it is constitutionally justified to establish such benefits. To try to say it in Hungarian, because from this point of view, every bill is a little circumstantial, of course, in the text of the law, but both the court and the Constitutional Court have ruled that in such a case, when a person's employment relationship has ceased, it is necessary to take into account his activities, contributions, and everything in the previous years, and it cannot be established as if it had not happened. This, by the way, is taken in principle by the Constitutional Court itself from the text of the Constitution or from the fabric of the Fundamental Law. Right now, in this bill, it's gonna be tied up, and it's not gonna be like this, and it's gonna mean, obviously, that people in trouble are gonna get a lot worse than they already are. I don't know what kind of budget savings this could cause, I don't know or cut red tape, but in the middle of a crisis like this, I think it doesn't take a very, very big fortune-telling talent to say that a lot of jobs will be lost in the next period, a lot of people will lose their jobs, and a lot of people could be in a situation where this amendment would be detrimental to their lives. I don't know if this is something the government has to live with, but if it stays in the law, we certainly won't vote for it. The other one, which seems to be a bureaucracy reduction, but it will automatically mean a less favourable decision for those affected, if the government talks a lot about the importance of children and the family, this applies specifically to student childcare fees. I'm trying to be a little professional, so it doesn't make sense, and then I'll say it in Hungarian, but it's important to be precise. The Ebtv. 42/E. Paragraph 5 provides that, on the day the child is born, if the claim is secured, the amount under paragraph 5 shall be compared to the amount calculated in accordance with paragraphs 6 and 7 and the more favourable amount shall be paid. That's what's happening now. However, while paragraph 5 refers to the monthly amount, paragraphs 6 and 7 assign the amount of benefit to a daily amount, and even these two paragraphs are not fully in line with each other. This is now resolved by changing the day-to-day finding as a rule or as a single rule, even if, under the current law, the monthly finding would otherwise be more favourable to the insured person concerned, namely the student child care fee, saying that dear colleagues in the office are unable to solve a comparison between the day and the month. We don't think that's a good solution, Mr. Secretary. There must be some guarantee that if the original legislator's intention was to always apply to these policyholders in a more favourable way, that this would be the case in the future, because there will be nothing else here if this law was passed, that concrete people would receive less money than they already had, or would have been, in the past period. It doesn't seem like a big deal. They just accept that right now, everyone who falls away from the money we can determine will really feel it. The third and only very briefly concerns the Public Procurement Act. I did not understand when Mr Secretary of State said briefly that the validity of the offer itself would not be established that if the tenderer did not otherwise know, or can prove, that he did not need to know, about the false reporting, restrictive agreement or unlawful influence of the contractor. And what will that confirm, Mr. Secretary? Because I didn't understand that. You said that this shows how committed the Hungarian Government is to transparency in the use of EU funds, or I do not know what. What part of transparency will be ensured if we ease this otherwise? I understand that it makes public procurement easier. But we understand that you have also said that this is a big bid for public procurement, one of the subcontractors is violating, well, I don't know, there's also a part of you that I think you're going to do in violation of criminal law, and it turns out that you're illegally affecting the procedure, and it's obviously gonna come out, because otherwise we wouldn't talk about it, or you would give us false information. I think they're in a lot of happy places separately in the penal code, so that in this case everything can go on, only the subcontractors will be replaced if the main contractor doesn't know about it. Once again, I mean cutting red tape, speeding up public procurement. But let's not say that it doesn't increase the risk of corruption, that it's going to be the rule, that you can, kids, cheat, just don't get caught, you can prove that you didn't know about it. It is now written down in a law, even if it is a rule based on an EU judicial decision, a rule based on a specific case, Mr Secretary of State. I'm just saying that we should not celebrate this in any way as a triumph of transparency. And what my very honest fellow Member has said is that we have not noticed, I must say, the amendment to public procurement laws, which is less innovative, is that, for reasons of national security, as an exception, it is removed from the law, and the issue of the fundamental security of Hungary remains. Now it is not so difficult to imagine that we have learned math, that there is such a large set, this is anything concerning the fundamental security of Hungary, in which the issue of national security is so small, and by taking it out of it, nothing has been taken out. The issue affecting the fundamental security of Hungary is also the matter of national security, and I would like to say to you, there may still be domestic security, police, health and other issues, which mean that they say, for example, they will come to us again, the Defence and Police Committee, and this legal institution will be completely empty on a piece of A4 paper, asking for a thousand billion forints from public procurement in the next ten years, see the Ministry of Defence more than once in the previous period. I don't think this is exactly what the current text is, either, because it should describe what you want to buy, how much you want to buy, when you want to buy it. Now, these three don't turn out to be, but we'll be buying something in the order of a thousand billion forints in the next ten years. [[20.20]] Now, on this problem, which actually rewrites or completely blanks out both the Public Procurement Act and, by the way, the real reason for the exemption from public procurement, for which it was created, and I would add, I always note that at least in the vast majority of the Ministry of Interior, it still does as it is written in the law, so it tells us what it wants to buy, why it wants to buy, when it wants to buy. This hasn't been used by the Ministry of Defense in years. Now, this bill, Mr. Secretary of State, or the exception to that word, is certainly not going to change anything. If this is absorbed by the dear partners in Brussels, I congratulate them, but this will certainly not strengthen transparency in Hungary in any way. So, along with all this, it would have been great if there had been a law that would have been left out of it, and all the good that would have been forward-looking for citizens and colleagues in the offices, could have been voted for. In this state, this law cannot be supported by us. Thank you very much.
u2022-11-09-192	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to László Lukács, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-11-09-193	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to say, first of all, by dividing the speech into two parts, what suddenly came out of me during the debate. I think there are fewer bigger fans than I have in relation to digitalisation of all kinds of public services and all kinds of administration. At the time, when the lawyer had reached the first section of the electronic authentic signature, first between the offices and the official professions in the electronic administration they faced this in the court-martial procedures and later in other procedures, I always thought and not only the advertising said that the best action is digitalisation. Indeed, it was a great help, and many things could be handled comfortably. It was also forward-looking, and I may have been one of the top fighters from 2014 onwards, despite politicalising from the opposition to finally gain ground in Hungary as a very important digitalisation arriving in health care, since health care would have one of the greatest opportunities for digitization and good analysis of data generated by data analysis and, in other respects, health care. We started from the time when I had the opportunity to spend an internship with the social security provider at the time, and we were saying that the newly digitized data was designed simply not to extract data from the PDF file by means of intelligent electronic means, so we had to input data from the PDF file into another PDF file or another database-organizing interface. This has been a step forward ever since. This is also important, honourable Members, although it does not belong to the proposal itself, because from this mass of data we can determine, for example, the direction in which we need to develop in health care, and what social groups can be targeted by prevention, what therapy, and how we can make Hungarian society healthier. I believe that this type of digitalisation also has meaning and potential in the public administration, but then let me say my personal opinion on the difficulties that the electronic communication method has caused. My father is already retired, but he is in favour of him, and we have run into a very simple problem at his company that would require and have been set up, but as a breaker entrepreneur, he no longer had the right to do so because of the interruption of his representative's right to change settings, so it took a long paperwork and personal administration to use a clickable function otherwise. So, in many cases, due to the many forgings and flaws of digitalization, there are surprises for customers. Such and similar, and we have heard this from businesses many times, and we have also seen the issue of zero certificates as an individual, so when it comes to issuing a zero certificate for the parties involved in the taxpayer's trust in the commercial market. One of the biggest limits of this is that they can sort out their own status at the beginning of the month, so if one does not notice in any way, whether in electronic contact, that one receives a notice or has not settled an overdue debt on a deadline, it will fall out of this register, and in many companies, especially when it comes to related enterprises, it can easily result in a company that is half operational or not working, or that is dormant because of a project, a debt of 5 to 10 thousand forints could cause an entire corporate conglomerate to fail due to the conditions of its zero taxpayer status, which will have to wait again for the beginning of the next month. Even though the banking system has already given you the opportunity to make an immediate transfer of your debts, settling your debt into a pisslice in a matter of seconds, you still have to wait for the beginning of the month again to change your status, and you have to submit a request, either electronically via the e-requisition program. So these are all such minor annoyances, in which bureaucracy could still be reduced, in which the burden could be reduced in existing tax procedures for taxpayers. The other, which would be appropriate, to comb together, and perhaps one of the well-functioning surfaces is the surface of e-paper, where users, especially private people, can make requests electronically, but in some ways, reflecting the paper base, and act towards certain authorities, including chambers, public bodies, municipalities and police authorities. This is an example of a well-functioning one. The opposite is the need to deal with the municipalities by electronic means with a submission in some way. One: it is unmanageable, and none, so either e-paper or e-restraint must be used to communicate with the municipalities on an interface that is not similar to the e-religious program. The system is slow, throws out the employees in it, and even though it is connected to the store, it is integrated into the services of the NISZ, from a customer's point of view, but I also think it is an extremely bad and difficult system from the point of view of the municipalities. So this is something that needs to be changed. This is not a subject of this proposal; I just wanted these to be said. These are practical, let's say, electoral grievances, or what one can experience along the way, either in relation to the problems he or she has personally shown, either by relatives or by businesses. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to present to you all the ideas that have been raised in the examination of the bill and, in particular, in relation to public procurement. I have gathered about this, we have drawn up a number of things that we think could be good, and how we should change what the government has just put before us, and we will have an amendment to it, but then let me explain what we have. Some of the amendments made to the Public Procurement Act could be welcomed, but it is also clear from the Moon that the legally sanctioned loopholes that ensure abuse are not affected by the current amendments, and you do not want to close them. Of course, we are pleased to note that, in the future, certain data services can be refused only by reference to business secrets, but it is important to see that these are only minor details compared to the possibilities that certain businesses are gaining ever more and more wealth. But let us move forward, first of all, because the next, although not the most important, element of this proposal is the facilitation that represents a change in the liability of the bidder. These are the provisions under which the contractor's sub-contractor did not otherwise meet the eligibility criteria set out in the call for tenders, but the tenderer did not know about this disability. Yes, we read it well, we understood: this criterion did not know. It is quite shocking to reduce the liability of the bidder in 2022 in the system of national declarations. Nowadays, when any of our fellow countrymen, in any small matter, act in any office, they only sign half a dozen statements on one occasion. However, you do not by any chance mean and follow such repulsive practices, but you are trying to push through the above-mentioned method. Instead of ordinary people, in the most typical case, tenderers want to reduce the burden of businessmen and businesses you know well and too closely with this provision, since why should it not be possible to impose criminal sanctions on subcontractors and tenderers together on compliance with the call for tenders. Is this statement perhaps too bureaucratic when, as public procurement, we are in many cases talking about serious hundreds of millions and billions, and we are talking about the largest part of public procurement? [[20.30]] However, our feelings of lack of legislation are not the end, nor were they the most devastating anomalies. One of the most applied business models in public procurement procedures, the Tao grant system, is critical. But let's see what this looks like in practice. I think we all agree here in this Chamber that the Tao aid system is based on the tax revenue of the central budget, which, to be precise, is an opportunity to provide subsidies against corporate and dividend tax revenues. We also know that there was a time when you denied the public character of such resources, despite the fact that the Curia decided in 2017, otherwise in a final judgment, that it was public money. Well, in the vast majority of cases, sports organisations with such public funds could freely provide for these overall amounts, without the use of public procurement procedures. In this way, the specific system of this subculture, let's say, was quickly established, namely why it could not support or support the provider or investor chosen by the sports organisation at a later stage. All that happened here was new and new public markets, and orders were opened to them, which were not even needed to be brought in, and there was no bureaucracy here, and there was no need to go through the procedures. You woke up in 2022, so to speak, to the effect that the tax relief was a subsidy. The judgment of the Curia five years ago was not enough for this, it was quite impertinently recorded even in the explanatory statement. Let me quote the Kbt. 3. § 39 of the Kbt, the reason for its repeal, is that the Kbt. 3. Point 39 of Article 39 of Directive 2014/24/EU defines the concept of aid in a narrower way than is provided for in Directive 2014/24/EU, given that it does not consider tax incentives to be aid. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, In the present case, the text of the ominous law and of the section currently planned to be repealed is, let me quote, the definition of aid in point 39:. The provision of funds or other material advantages to the contracting authority for the performance of the contract for public procurement, not including tax relief, guarantee and the taxpayer's support for the purposes set out in the Company Tax and dividend Tax Act, and the taxpayer's offer for the purposes of the beneficiary as defined in the Company Tax and dividend Tax Act. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, If they had the courage, or if we were to say it perfectly, we should have the courage to do it here, they would not operate by repealing the concept of support, because it is absurd in itself. This definition cannot be excluded from such legislation, and in such a case it raises concerns about the aid received, which would require a much narrower and much more precise definition, rather than abandoning it. So, to put it clearly, it is not necessary to abandon the definition of aid, but rather to make a precise, comprehensive record, it is necessary to leave only a simple "no" word out of it. This therefore sounds right, and I will try to do the right thing, and perhaps it will be easier to peel this out of the amending proposal. Under the terms of the grant, point 39 would mean the granting of funds or other material advantages to the contracting authority for the performance of the public procurement contract, including tax relief, guarantee and the taxpayer's support for the purposes set out in the corporate tax and dividend tax law, as well as the taxpayer's offer for the purposes of the beneficiary laid down in the corporate tax and dividend tax law. I trust, fellow Members, and this will be a relatively simple decision-making situation for the government to provide this support for the amending proposal. Although it seems to be just a small point of the bill that we are talking about, there is only one word in which it would be possible to prove the fair treatment of public funds in a much wider way, to justify it, because it is in the interests of all of us. In addition to cutting red tape, this should therefore also be discussed, namely, the purity of public procurement. Thank you so much for listening.
u2022-11-09-194	Thank you, Congressman. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I do not see any other speakers; the general debate is closed. I'll ask the author, Mr. Secretary of State, if you'd like to answer. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State wishes to respond. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2022-11-09-195	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Firstly, I thank the Member lady and the Members for their supporting words and for their constructive and less constructive contributions. Allow me to reflect specifically on some opposition remarks. For example, I thought I heard the criticism of the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments from the speech by Mr László Sebian-Petrovski when he mentioned that the expansion of the electronic world has now been going on for decades, and in this respect governments have not done enough. Indeed, between 2002-2010, when the biggest explosion in the electronic world took place, the Hungarian administration could not compete with this explosion. Thank God, over the past 12 years, we have made a lot of steps, big steps forward, and this bill is also taking a big step forward in the interests of electronic administration. I would like to clarify the misunderstanding that the government does not intend to make electronic administration mandatory for citizens. It's an option, but it's not an obligation. Every citizen chooses a type of administration that is convenient for him. And the comment on what the government has done in the field of public procurement is something we are very proud of, honourable Member, because the figures should speak: by 2020, the share of negotiated procurement procedures without a contract notice fell to 6 per cent, while this percentage was still 15 per cent in 2010. The proportion of single-offer procurements in public procurement financed by EU funds is steadily decreasing, with a 16-percent share in 2021. I would like to note that in 2009, this figure was still 27.5 percent in the time of the government of Ferenc Gyurcsány, while Gordon Bajnai continued to increase it to 29 percent. This 29 percent has been reduced to 16 percent in recent years, and further measures have been taken to further reduce this rate. And as far as the transformation of certain non-profit companies is concerned, Congressman, you don't have to paint the devil on the wall. Nothing else happens but that these organizations are incorporated into the Ministry of Construction and Investment. It is a process, and the various stages of this process are included in the bill. However, we agree that a ministry is not a profit-oriented organisation, so you can be sure that we will continue to carry out these tasks as non-profit activities, which are now being carried out by NIF Zrt. and BMSK Zrt. Finished. Mr Tamás Harangozó's speech once again convinced us that the MSZP is thinking of austerity. How you came to the point of finding that this bill contains new restrictions, I do not understand. My sole explanation is that the MSZP can never think of anything other than austerity, but it is true, when the MSZP and the left were governments, before 2010, their only solution to all problems was austerity. Now I would ask all left-wing representatives not to scare me with austerity, we, the Government of Hungary, are thinking about preserving jobs instead of austerity, protecting the livelihoods of families. This bill has also set these objectives. [[20.40]] As regards certain misunderstandings relating to the amendment of the public procurement law, in the context of annulment and annulments from the error of the bidder, it is only that, in the event that a contributor provides incorrect data, in such a case, nullity should not automatically be established on the basis of the fault of the tenderer, since it was not his fault and the tenderer does not bear the related disadvantages. As regards certain drafting objections to the amendment to the public procurement law, such as the finding of a fundamental security interest or the concept of aid, I would ask the Members to consult with the European Commission, since this wording, these texts, were validated by the European Commission both for the essential security interest and for the definition of aid. Dear Parliament, Dear Members, Ladies and Congressmen, I would like to thank you for the proposals for further reduction of bureaucracy, and we will examine them. The bill before us, Mr Parliament, is not long, but its practical benefit is beyond doubt. The proposed amendments reflect the practice and make changes that contribute to reducing administration, facilitating contacts and improving and improving the effectiveness of the practice. This bill therefore contains elements of amendment that will result in tangible ease for people and businesses in practical implementation. In view of this, I ask you to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-09-196	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agenda items today, and given that the Member applying for the post- Agenda address is not in the Chamber, I can tell you that: [[Dr. László György Lukács: Good night.]] We're closing today's session. Thank you to all the Members who have lasted so long, thank you to the colleagues who have been here and have helped with their work to make this a successful day, thank you to them too. The Parliament will continue its work at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. Thank you.
