u2022-11-21-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear fellow Members, The 15th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to everyone who's been monitoring our work. Dear House, I have a sad duty to fulfill by announcing that Miklós Lukáts, our former colleague, died 77 years ago. Miklós Lukáts obtained his mandate from the national list of KDNP in the first free parliamentary elections after the regime change, and he was a member of the Parliament for a term. During his term of office, he assisted the Committee on the Environment and served as Secretary of State for Church Relations at the Office of the Prime Minister of the Antall Government. As a founding member, he participated in the organisation of the revamping KDNP and one of the first civil society organizations before the regime change, the Márton Áron Society. In 2019 he received the award of the middle cross of the Hungarian Medal of Merit in recognition of his public activities. Besides his political career, he served as a Lutheran minister. I ask you to honor the memory of our fellow Member with a silent standing. [[They stand up and salute the memory of the deceased.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, Máté Kanász-Nagy, on behalf of the LMP, applied for a pre-meeting speech. I'll give the floor to Congressman.
u2022-11-21-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I'll start with the most important message: today we're expecting everyone in front of Kossuth Square at 6:00 p.m. [[Sic!]] who would object to the amendment of the social law, and we believe that we must protest and invite everyone to this objection. For you, honourable government parties, are sending a message in this crisis to help yourself, the state is not helping you. Those who need help, who have a social problem turn their heads away from the Hungarian state's message with the amendment of the law that the Parliament would vote on tomorrow. However, at some point, we really need help, energy crisis, the climate crisis and the emerging social crisis; we need not less help, but more public engagement and responsibility than before. I find it very, very cynical to be pointed at the individual in this situation. When the bills exploded, energy prices and inflation broke loose, and now at least one month's income from everyone's salary is being taken away by this inflation, which is a priority for public service workers, educators, social workers, nurses, then they tell you to help yourself, solve your own problems. The fact is that pointing the finger at the individual in this situation is practically nothing more than self-preserving insensitive to the suffering of others. The Hungarian state is insensitive, the Hungarian state does not want to care, does not want to take responsibility. Of course, we could also ask what we will pay taxes, contributions, contributions, then what this tax will be used for. Public social policy is no longer called that, but this concept has been broken down, they are talking about care policy, but we need to put things right, we need state social policy, we need social policy, we need a very, very diverse task and we need to play a role. Its task is that if you create an acute problem, then quickly, efficiently, responsibly there is the state, helping to solve it, either by directly solving problems, or by enabling individuals and families to take care of themselves. But it's social policy, it's an intervention. This ability, the assignment of resources to individuals, communities and families, is also to be undermined. Public social policy has a role to play in mitigating poverty. They refer to Eurostat data, and I would highlight the data of extreme poverty. The fact is that if we are talking about a family living in poverty in Hungary, this family will not only be its grandchildren and great-grandsons, but perhaps its great-grandsons will not be the ones who can break out of poverty, because it will only happen by the end of the next century, and according to today's public states, six or seven generations will have to pass until a family can break out of poverty. And there is the reduction of social inequalities, the strengthening of a cohesive society, a social policy in this direction. So social policy has a more extensive function and role than, and I say in citation only, that it is only about solving individual social problems, social policy is about the whole community, the entire Hungarian state, its citizens and the nation. [[13.10]] The fact is that by directing obligations to individuals, they basically say that those born poor will remain in poverty; they say that if someone needs help, the state will turn their head. If a person works in the social sphere, or is a teacher or a health care professional, they say that he cannot really expect to improve his or her situation or his or her employment situation. In the case of teachers, for example, they point to the European Union, although this would be a government responsibility. We do not know why they want to continue to dismantle the social network, nor do we know exactly what social policy measures are coming from tomorrow's planned legislative amendment, but we know one thing: the direction is completely wrong, we must protest against this. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] We will do so today at 18:00 in Kossuth Square. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2022-11-21-2	In response, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2022-11-21-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, For the past 12 years, we have followed the direction that the best way to provide people with financial security is to have a job. We can talk about many kinds of benefits, and obviously they have their own territory, but nothing can provide greater financial security than having a job. While left-wing governance was about rising unemployment, during the governance of the right, more than a million people have had jobs in the last decade. This is the safest protection in our view against social problems, the safest protection for not wanting someone or someone's child and their granddaughter to face poverty. I was wondering if you could give me a number, honourable Member, when you talk about extreme poverty. [[Máté Kanász-Nagy: 600,000!]] , Eurostat has relevant figures. You know that this was a figure of over 400,000 in 2010, and now there was a figure of less than 100,000 in the latest statement by Eurostat. So, thank God, the number of people living in extreme poverty has also fallen radically in recent years, and one of the reasons for this is that one million more people can work, and the minimum wage is not around HUF 75,000, but is at HUF 200,000, honourable Member, which is now much higher than the average wage level in the previous era. But if Eurostat had been viewed from a different perspective by the honourable Member, it would have been possible to see figures as to how poverty or social exclusion in the European Union, let us say, has changed over the last decade. From 23.9% to 21.5 percent in the EU, this is a joyful decrease, from 23.9 percent to 21 percent, while in Hungary from 31 percent to 18 percent between 2010 and 2020. So in 2010 we were well above the EU average, around 24 per cent in the EU, 31.5 per cent for us, and by the end of the decade, when we tried to create a work-based society and radically reduce taxes, we radically raised the minimum wage, but we managed to reduce it to 18.2 per cent of the EU's 21.5 per cent, according to Eurostat data. We believe that not only social measures are involved in creating jobs, but also that because of migration, a new dimension of social problems has also appeared in Western Europe, which does not appear in Hungary, so this can be less of a problem here. It can also be said that the fourth largest proportion of people in material deprivation in the EU was the fourth largest in 2020 and thus by the end of the decade! There were only three countries within the EU, where the share of the poor fell in greater steps than in Hungary. And it's not a coincidence, it's not just a good thing that it happened, so to be happy that it happened by accident, it took a lot of action to do so. One part of this was job creation, economic recovery. These are the plans of the government that you have been attacking since the beginning of the 2010s, and even in the context of disease management, you have said that the funds that the government is spending on this should not be used to create jobs, but to support unemployment. They opposed these measures here in Parliament. On the other hand, we managed to bring about a record high, 7.1 percent economic growth. Economic growth, radical minimum wage increases, tax cuts, job creation is what can reduce poverty, honourable Member. And what you said about how much the government wants and how much it doesn't want for social purposes, for the help of the poor. When you were taken from poor people, that was exactly your era, honourable Member, the era of the left when a month's wage was taken from social workers. They took a month's wages! If you look at the numbers compared to this, you tried to avoid the numbers, but let me tell you the figures, the budget laws, the 2010 budget law that we inherited was HUF 325 billion for social services. HUF 325 billion! Do you know how much of the budget you've adopted is now in the face of 325 billion? [[Máté Kanász-Nagy: GDP ratio!]] 1139 billion. 1139 billion instead of 325 billion, honourable Member; this reduction, in your view, I would add. So I don't know what your growth is, but I think it's better to spare the Hungarian people than to triple social spending. And you're still saying that there's job creation, record low tax, record job creation [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] and a triple increase in social expenditure. [[Sic!]] You must fear the Hungarian people, not the politics of this government. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-21-4	László Toroczkai, the leader of the Group of Mi Hazank, also applied for a speech before the agenda. I give the floor to the congressman. [[13.20]]
u2022-11-21-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Violence is beginning to bite again in our country. In recent weeks, a number of news has come to light despite the fact that mainstream media is trying to silence such cases, which has received quite a lot of attention, given the fact that there are many common points in these two unfortunate attacks. In both cases, honest Hungarians and Hungarians seeking work and returning from work suffered horrific injuries. In one case, the head of a man waiting for a tram at Népliget in Budapest, because a madman, half-crazy, attacked him, fell down the stairs, and hundreds of people had to watch horror movies. Then, a few days ago, we heard that five young men in Székesfehérvár surrounded a renowned painter returning from work and asked him for cigarettes. Since the Hungarian man who returned home from work does not smoke, he was beaten so badly that he lost his eye, and his eyes were literally knocked out, he jumped out of his place and lay there in the bushes until the next morning. Unfortunately, these are not isolated cases, only one such case is picked up by the media, but there are a lot of other things that people in the country would be able to report. These are unjustified acts of violence, aggressive attacks that are not justified by anything, even the famous SZDSZ saying in the 1990s, so-called crime of livelihoods, does not justify these completely unnecessary violent attacks. By the way, in the two cases, not only is the horror fiber common, but there are other common threads. For example, in the case of Székesfehérvár, we know about the five young men, thanks to our local member organization, that they are Gypsies. Here in Parliament, in addition to Mi Hungary, virtually every faction sits Gypsy or Roma representatives, both on the Fidesz side and on the Balliberal side. We ask them to speak in such cases. The most important thing is not that they are able to speak in the Parliament in horse-riding language, but, for example, to spend the 6,000 billion forints they have received for Gypsy programmes and catch-up programmes in Hungary on aggressiveness or aggression management courses. So I'm pretty sure you're gonna have to do something to make sure that doesn't happen. Of course, it is possible to say here in Parliament that the Horseman's language is the most important problem in this area, but it is enough, let's say, in Budapest with tram number 4, tram number 6, you no longer have to get on night flights, because during the day you meet such unjustified, inexplicable aggressions and attacks. At the same time, we can also see that, according to the scenes in the video published by the police on the M5 motorway, from Szeged to Budapest, migrants of Iraqi nationality were shooting continuously, not only at the risk of the lives of police officers who were after them, but also at the risk of the lives of all those who were driving there. Thousands of people's lives could have been compromised from Szeged to Budapest on the highway. Compared to that, they were caught pretty gently. They would probably have been shot in the woods in every country in the world, since police footage shows that they are constantly firing at police officers who are chasing them. This is because there has been a liberal policy in Hungary for many years, even decades, which always places the rights of criminals before the people who pursue sin. We have also seen, among other things, that in 2008 the Gyurcsány government brought a law that discriminates against Hungarians and discriminates against them in this country. Violence against members of the so-called community shows that if the person is not Hungarian, he usually receives more who, let's say, hits him. If the painter returning from work happens to be Hungarian, then the unsub will probably get away with less. But in 2011, your government, the Orbán government, already adopted legislation which criminalizes so-called unauthorised public security activities. On this basis, for example, after the investigation of the Hungarian police, the court made a convicted defendant out of the field guards in the Digotthal. The court ruled that it was an unauthorised public security activity that illegal migrants who broke into our country, who attacked the ranches, were stopped and called the police. This is totally unacceptable! Therefore, we ask the government to urgently protect honest Hungarians, to protect Hungarians who want to pursue criminals, to abolish these two laws, i.e. the law on violence against members of the community, as well as the law on illegal public security, to protect Hungarians, and to order in parliament, because after the press conference of the Andrews Jámbor, it seems that there is a need for a drug test in Parliament. I ask Mr Speaker to introduce this for Members. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-11-21-6	Once again, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2022-11-21-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, The Fidesz-KDNP government announced a strict criminal policy in 2010. We have adopted legislation that has given the police the opportunity to act effectively. It was unacceptable in the days before 2010 that people often felt that law-abiding citizens were at a disadvantage to those who broke the law and that those who defended their own property and their own lives had to explain in court. This was an unacceptable condition for us. It was not possible to maintain this kind of prior Balliberal government criminal policy, so we said that we would protect law-abiding people, and that we would give the police effective means to enforce the laws, and that in Hungary the incredibly broken crime number that was in 2010 should finally begin to decline, and that people should not be afraid to become victims of any crime. If you look at the number of crimes committed in 2010, you will see that 447 186 were registered. On the other hand, last year it was 154 012 against 447 thousand. So, thank God, we managed to reduce the number of crimes by a third. A few weeks ago, you may have read the results of a worldwide research conducted by the French institute Ipsos about how concerned people are about crime and violence in their country, how afraid they will be of being victims of crime. In the world, 26 percent of people fear that they will be victims of crime or violence, while this 26 percent is measured in Hungary at 4 percent in this statement. You attacked the Hungarian police here, that they didn't perform well on the M5 motorway. [[László Toroczkai: I attacked you!]] Against smugglers. I'd like to protect the police and acknowledge what they've done, that they've been chasing you all along, and eventually they've captured the smugglers, but I'll come back to that later. Well, in the world it is 26 percent, while in Hungary 4 percent are afraid of being a victim of crime or violence. The situation in Poland is similar, there is 5 percent, in South Korea 9 percent, in Germany 15 percent, in Britain 16 percent, in Canada 18 percent, in France 24 percent. In Sweden, 58 percent of people fear that they will be victims of crime or violence. This also shows where a completely liberal policy, especially migration policy, leads, to the fear that people will be victims of violence or crime in their own country. Therefore, honourable Member, if there is something to do with the police, it is not criticism, but recognition. We have also tried to express this recognition in the form of a wage increase from September this year. At least 116 thousand forints increased the wages of Hungarian police officers, and a year and a half later, a next increase in wages will follow the increase in September this year. We also tried to acknowledge the work they were doing. In an era when everything becomes uncertain, in a war world, in a period of economic difficulties, maintaining order and maintaining security is even more appreciated. As far as the M5 motorway is concerned, it also shows how important it is to act effectively on the one hand and to fight migration on the other. On the highway, they wanted to control a van driven by two people, but they refused to submit to it, but, as you mentioned, there was a long-term car chase on the highway, during which there were two, then three, and then two shots again. Then, at longer intervals, several shots were fired at the cops who were chasing them. When the van got stuck in traffic, the smugglers escaped, but then they were professionally captured, not only by them, but also by those who were in the drive-in car, in a BMW. The smugglers are doing pretty well. They finally caught up with them on the M1, but when they stopped the car, they refused to get out of the car, despite the repeated calls in English, they did not move. They had to break the car bottle, but they weren't cooperating, so they had to be forced out. They also resisted handcuffing, and they could only be cuffed by severe physical effort. Turns out, when they got the van, they got a message from the man-smuggling driver that there was a gun next to the transmission and it was used to meet cops. Honourable Congressman, If something is important in Europe at the moment, it is precisely to take action against such aggressive smuggling networks. Among these, he was an Iraqi citizen, an ex-Turkish citizen, but he was also a German citizen among the six criminals who were captured. These people seem to be able not only to make battle scenes at the border, but also if they have the opportunity, even in the country. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.30]]
u2022-11-21-8	A member of the Dialogue Group, Rebecca Szabó, also applied for a speech before the agenda. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2022-11-21-9	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, This weekend the COP 27, the UN World Conference on Climate Change, ended. Although the news of the war is now fading almost everything else, one of the most important issues of the day remains that world governments can do something about the climate disaster that is already underway. Unfortunately, as a result of the government propaganda in Hungary, we see an alternative reality, in which we now have to be terrified of sanctions in Brussels, even though the real threat to our lives and our future is the climate crisis and the crisis of the living world and ecosystems, which we should face and try to do something about it. Unfortunately, this year we saw where we are in Europe in 2022. The summer heat waves are unbearable not only in New Delhi and Jakarta, but also in Paris and Budapest. Due to the months of drought, nuclear power plants had to be shut down because there wasn't enough cooling water. The agricultural yields have fallen dramatically. Some countries are already preparing their own escape because they will be washed away by rising sea levels within years. These are not the problems of the future, this is happening to us and our children. It is no wonder that the members of the generations that are growing up are increasingly anxious and are trying to draw attention to this through desperate actions. Wild capitalism, which negligates ecological aspects, does not cost them the environment, but which pursues economic growth, has created a world that will soon be unfit for a life worthy of man. So here we are in the global race in which every tenth-degree rise causes the death of people, unmanageable weather conditions, millions of people without food, drinking water and living space, a country of dehydrated or flooded areas and thousands of dead plant and animal species. Knowing all this, it is particularly outrageous that what the Orbán government has been able to add to this struggle so far was a transparent lie. Hungary's climate champion Viktor Orbán and the self-proclaimed green János Áder said that when someone tried to get the government to act. We're not doing anything, because we're already climate champions without it, that was Fidesz's answer. I would like to say that Viktor Orbán also understands that Hungary has been eliminated from this tournament by zero points, without a kicked goal. The Orbán government practically banned the installation of wind power plants, taxed solar panels and removed the connection to the network. Yes, you can hear it well, Fidesz has made it impossible to install new solar power plants in Hungary at the same time as the climate peak, while talking about bringing renewable energy from Azerbaijan. But 12 years ago, the promised national residential thermal insulation program was canceled. They have done nothing for energy efficiency. They sabotaged the development of electrical networks, while they were trying to increase the production of lignite. They want to sell protected areas, make cutting easier in protected forests, build a battery factory in agricultural areas, and look helplessly at the desertification of the Great Plain, even though natural ecosystems, our water resources, soil, sustainability of food production are key factors in mitigating the expected climate hell. The Dialogue, as a Green Party, has drawn attention to these many times. Although they prevented two opposition representatives from attending the climate summit, they did not get away with confrontation. According to the expert report, Hungary's climate policy has deteriorated significantly in recent years, and there are no practical signs that the Hungarian government is committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions in line with the EU target. So I quoted the expert report. Once again, losing score without a goal, this is the Hungarian reality in the climate issue. But the stakes here aren't how many medium-talented import football players we'll be able to employ with public money. This tournament is played to the death, and those who lose here can really lose everything, the country's future, competitiveness, food-producing potential and economic stamina. Since Viktor Orbán and his government chose to fill their pockets instead of the public good and the future, instead of significantly improving Hungary's chances, the Dialogue will continue to draw attention to these huge mistakes and will place on the table professional proposals that could at least handle the climate crisis, and we will do everything we can to ensure that if all proposals on climate protection and nature protection are practically deaf in the Fidesz government, at least voters will take this very serious threat seriously. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the lines of Momentum, DK, Dialogue and LMP.]]
u2022-11-21-10	I give the floor to Mrs Zsófia Koncz, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2022-11-21-11	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As far as the facts are concerned, the Hungarian economy has been able to produce GDP per unit since 2010, with 24 percent less greenhouse gas emissions, while its industrial performance has increased by one and a half times. In Hungary, CO2 emissions per capita are the ninth best value among EU Member States. 64 percent of Hungarian electricity production is carbon-free, 45 percent are nuclear and 19 percent are renewable energy. Other facts: the country is 13th in overall carbon reduction measures on the basis of a global research conducted by KPMG, which examined 32 countries on the basis of 103 indicators. Since 1990, we have reduced CO2 emissions to 34%, in which the energy sector played an important role. I would like to draw your attention to one important point, as the Dialogue is constantly opposed to Mr Paks II. making investments while worrying about CO2 emissions. The Paks II. The project will avoid emissions of 17 million tonnes of CO2 on an annual basis. In addition, we are avoiding 14 million tonnes of CO2 emissions each year thanks to the existing Paks blocks. If the two work together, this means more than 30 million tonnes of CO2 per year. By comparison, our country's forested areas can absorb about 6 million tons of carbon dioxide each year. I think these values speak for themselves. Here she mentioned the sanctions and how much the Hungarian Government is now dealing with sanctions. The fact is that these sanctions, which put Hungary in a very difficult position, but also Europe as a whole, force decisions from other European countries to restart coal mines, increase logging and, in fact, cause a complete energy crisis, these certain failed sanctions in Brussels. [[Szabolcs Szabó: Then why did he vote?]] Hungary is continuing to pursue climate protection targets along the agreed strategies and action plans in the current energy crisis, and the European Commission's summer report acknowledged that sanctions will force Europe to continue to rely on its carbon reserves. [[Szabolcs Szabó: The sanctions voted by Orbán are the correct term!]] With regard to sanctions, because I hear here that my fellow Members are very interested, yes, we are always working on sanctions to provide Hungary with exceptions that are in the interest of Hungarian people, Hungarian families and the Hungarian economy. In this, we are very much counting on opposition colleagues. Unfortunately, all left-wing Members in the European Parliament vote in favour of the decisions which are otherwise unfavourable to Hungary. [[Intercoms from opposition lines. Szabolcs Szabó: The Council decides on this! On behalf of the President:]] Yeah, we're having this kind of alternate conversation, thank you very much. With regard to COP 27, I would like to point out that it can be considered as a Hungarian success that, at the joint request of Hungary and Slovenia and Spain, for the first time this year, a substantive reference was included in the text of the COP closure declaration on the importance of water and climate nexus, as well as we have been very active in sectoral initiatives, and we have also joined initiatives linking water management, climate adaptation, sustainable urban planning and climate protection and general quality of life. I would also like to highlight the Government's climate and nature conservation action plan, which is well-known by the representative, and accordingly we support the spread of electric vehicles, the Green Bus programme for reducing CO2 emissions, which supports the quality exchange of local vehicle parks in rural cities. As I have pointed out earlier, the government will provide additional resources from next year's budget, including green economy tasks related to the energy and climate modernisation system, sustainability tasks and utility services. [[13.40]] On the initiative of the government, the Hungarian Parliament banned the marketing of individual disposable plastics from 1 July last year. I think these figures speak for themselves, so I would also ask the congresswoman to support the Hungarian government's ideas in this regard. Thank you. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-11-21-12	Now it's time for Jobbik's representative, Brenner Koloman. Here you go.
u2022-11-21-13	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Hic Rhodus, hic salta or less elevated: the test of pudding is eating. Minister Navracsics jumped on his first run, and I think he broke the bar. It has happened that Minister has promised that the Integrity Authority will start its work on 19 November. As a responsible conservative party, our President Márton Gyöngyösi, together with Patrik Schwarcz-Kiefer, a better representative of the Committee of the Regions, went to the registered address of the Integrity Authority, but they found closed doors, even though they carried a 180-page document on a very interesting corruption case. The case relates to the Fidesz mayor of Mohács, who received more than one billion forints from familyly EU funds to a poultry farm in Geresdlak, by the way, it is suspected that the plot has suddenly been halved so that the Fidesz mayor has twice as much EU funds. That's what they say he's good at. Now, the D.A.'s office ordered the investigation in this case, and then the supervisory authority of the Ministry of Agriculture told us on half a page that there's nothing to see here. A hundred words have one end: the test of pudding is eating, as I have already said, and I think that you are dangerously endangering the EU's resources for Hungarian citizens through their policies of one-party overpowering over the past 12 years. Dear fellow Members, it is your fault that those Hungarian citizens who are facing a very serious economic and social crisis every day because of your failed economic policy have already fallen from the heavy billions of refurbishing funds, because they have to go to the grocery store every day to buy food and then have to pay for the overhead you have raised. So you have a very, very serious responsibility for giving Hungarian citizens the EU's resources to them. That's why Jobbik voted as a responsible conservative party in favour of all of their legislative proposals submitted by the Fidesz government for this purpose. But we expect you not only to cocoon an authority where we can find closed doors, but to start the work. Prove it, prove that this authority is indeed anti-corruption, and indeed it will act in cases that are absolutely spectacularly proven cases of corruption! In addition, let's face it, this is the end of the year and 70 percent of the renovation fund will be lost if you cannot agree with the European Union. I would like to point out that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán should settle with the other prime ministers, because no one else will decide on this matter, no matter what you say about everything else, who will vote for it. Let me also bring up another case, since the government has already submitted a bill on the reorganization of ministries. In this connection, let us remember the activities of Minister Palkovics, even because the Constitutional Court has just taken a decision condemning the separation of the research network of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. From the beginning, we have said that research and academic autonomy are a very old European conservative value. That's why we used to stand up to these plans. Minister Palkovics and I am very sorry for this, because he is a member of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, and I am only a member of his public body. Shame and shame! He does not resign when he has to implement such plans, and he does not resign when 80 percent of the university world is turned into a fidesz foundation, not when he resigns, but when, because of a redeployment, which we call your political communication governance, he receives a ministry that no longer corresponds to Mr Palkovics. Well, then, cancel. Well, this is the real poverty certificate, I think, and at a time when the energy security of Hungarian citizens would really be a very important issue, it is an extremely important issue. If you remember, ladies and gentlemen, a few weeks ago you again voted against my proposal in committee to replant wind power plants in our country, for example. In this very difficult situation, you can only prove that you can't steer. And we have a great responsibility to have a fair right-wing and conservative alternative to your fidesz one-party overpower. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2022-11-21-14	I give the floor to Secretary Csaba Latorcai. Here you go.
u2022-11-21-15	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to point out that the Integrity Authority is a body independent of the government, such as the government or any of its members, in this case Minister Tibor Navracsics, for the operation of an independent body is rather absurd, so I reject this. At the same time, it is a legal university-based curriculum that, if any deadline or deadline falls on a public holiday, it will be valid from the next working day, so the Integrity Authority has started operating since 19 November, but that means that its staff can be reached at their headquarters from today. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Let's go!]] They certainly knew this not only now, but also on Saturday, when your party president, Márton Gyöngyösi, like the Momentum, took action there for pure provocation. I understand Márton Gyöngyösi, who wants to be on the news with new topics, because because of his intensity and inconsiderate statements, he has already brought himself and Jobbik into an embarrassing, unsettling situation, and apparently now he wants to make his former fiasco forget new words. I do not think, first of all, that a few years ago he wanted to list the members of the Parliament of Jewish origin, after which Jobbik would not have excluded him from his membership, as would have been done by any fair-minded organization. [[Eszter Vitalos: That's right! Shame!]] They even made him their president. In this case, I would rather think that Márton Gyöngyösi had recently campaigned for Hungary's exit from the European Union. While Márton Gyöngyösi campaigned for his exit from the European Union, while Jobbik's MEP Béla Kovács, or, as he was known in Jobbik, KGBéla was spying on the institutions of the European Union. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Assisting the Hungarian authorities!]] [[Dr. László György Lukács: Assisting the Hungarian authorities!]] This has been established by the court. (Dr. László György Lukács: Assisted by the Hungarian authorities!) Compared to this, honourable Member, Márton Gyöngyösi has done a 180-degree turnaround, in recent weeks he has repeatedly stood up for sanctions in Brussels so much for energy security. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Orbán voted for all eight!]] Saying that the sanctions are working according to him. The sanctions work, says the President of Jobbik, while the whole world sees that Russia has not fallen from sanctions, Europe has, however, and the end of the war has not come any closer to sanctions, which were promised in Brussels in late spring, early summer. Dear Parliament, Hungary's Government's position is that peace is needed as soon as possible in the Russian-Ukrainian war, while Jobbik's President demonstrated again his dangerous intensity last week when, in connection with the missile attack on Poland, he declared that the Russians' missiles had crashed in Poland prior to the completion of the investigations. The President of Jobbik, with this irresponsible statement, has just increased the camp of politicians who are interested in escalating the Russian-Ukrainian war. [[Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] Please tell your president not to make pro-war statements, because the Hungarian people want peace. Honourable Congressman, So please do not provoke the Hungarian people, because Hungarian people can see through Jobbik. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Corruption! Corruption!]] Believe me, people can see how your former vice president, János Stummer, said last week that Jobbik wasn't honest with them. One day, they greet their German guests with Nazi songs, as happened a few weeks ago at Jászberény City Hall, which is currently well-run, and at other times they want to make false announcements to an independent authority on a public holiday for provocation. Let them decide whether to stick to their small-scale roots or if they are modern, XXI. They want to pose as a 100th-century europeer party! The two can't do it at the same time, Your Honour. Look deep into yourselves, and, most importantly, instead of going to war, stand on the side of peace and support the peace efforts of the Government of Hungary! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]] [[13.50]]
u2022-11-21-16	I now give the floor to Momentum's representative, Ferenc Gelencsér.
u2022-11-21-17	Mr. Speaker, Dear House, Austria, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Estonia, Finland, Croatia, Poland, Latvia, Lithuania, Germany, Slovakia and Slovenia: countries with historical experience with the Russian army. Surely it is no coincidence that the Heads of State or Government of these States have already left for Kiev since the outbreak of the war. We do not know how the Russian leadership forces the Hungarian Government and Viktor Orbán not to do the same as the head of government of a country which also has a history with regard to the Russian army. However, no one can blackmail us, members of the free generation, and no one can control us from abroad. We have therefore done what is morally right, and what is in the interest of our nation's community on the border and beyond, as a member of the European Union and NATO. Last week, Momentum visited Transcarpathia and Kiev as the first Hungarian parliamentary delegation. It is extremely embarrassing that an opposition party has to do the government's job. Unfortunately, we only have such a cowardly and incompetent government party and head of government, which seems to have forgotten the genesis of its own party. There's been a war in our neighborhood for nine months. We saw an amazing devastation in the vicinity of Kiev: bombed residential buildings, massacred civilians, many homeless pets among the ruins. This was left behind by the war criminal army of the Russian Federation. Sensitive men can only wish that the war should not escalate and that the war should be over as soon as possible. A sane man can only be interested in peace. However, this war will only end if the troops of the Russian war criminal Federation clear out of Ukraine. The war requires three things Montecuccoli says: money, money and money. Therefore, the Momentum welcomes the fact that Viktor Orbán and the MEPs of Fidesz-KDNP voted in favour of all the sanctions affecting Russia, thus reducing the revenues of the aggressor that could have been used for the war machine. These are very important steps, and we also thank the Fidesz sanctions party. The sanctions you voted for will allow the neighbouring Ukraine to prevail. However, the government's day-to-day communication on war runs counter to what you represent in your decision-making. The fact that this incredibly Russian-friendly communication position is being forced by the Russian leadership, unfortunately we do not know, which is why we are glad that, nevertheless, they were in the right place when they voted in favour of all the sanctions. At least there's so much sobriety left in you. However, let us not stop here, fellow Members. It must be said to the Hungarian government that Russia is a war criminal state. It is unacceptable that the Russian Federation has covered our neighbour in blood, it is unacceptable that Hungarians in Transcarpathia will die because of the war criminal Russian Federation. I would also kindly ask you to remove the bomb posters from the Hungarian public spaces. Stop desecrating the memory of the real victims of war. Sanctions aren't bombs. Sanctions are a means of stopping bombs. Sanctions are a means of less destruction, less grief, less distress for our neighbors. You know that, because that's probably why they voted for all the sanctions. You have families, parents, spouses, siblings, children. You would do anything to keep your loved ones safe. You too would be outraged if another country made fun of your suffering, and your outrage would be entirely justified. Come to your senses, fellow Members of the Government. Think about the damage this communication has done to the relationship between the two countries, the two peoples. This hostile communication is unbelievably damaging to Transcarpathian Hungarians. They don't want them to hate the Hungarians. So what do we suggest? If you have already voted very rightly on all sanctions, you should not communicate against sanctions, but on why you have decided to do so. Let the Hungarian government declare the Russian Federation to a war criminal state! Stop pitiful communication and send a government delegation to Kiev and restore Hungarian-Ukrainian relations! Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Momentum.]]
u2022-11-21-18	I give the floor to Secretary Balázs Fürjes.
u2022-11-21-19	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear House, The concern of the Momentum for Hungarians across the border is new. If this is a radical turnaround in your policy, we are actually grateful. We are looking for national unity on many issues, and we regretted the fact that the majority of the left has so far been shut down outside the national unity in the case of Hungarians across borders and their unification across national borders. The Momentum did the same on this issue. You are with those, and in the coalition with Ferenc Gyurcsány, who conducted a shameful referendum campaign on the dual citizenship of Hungarians across the border, and you regularly campaigned beyond the borders of European elections and parliamentary elections in favour of Romanian or Slovak parties running against and politicalising parties in Hungary. So if you now declare these as a mistake and finally support the interests of Hungarians beyond the borders, it is actually a useful step for Hungarian democracy. As far as Russia is concerned: the clearer the Hungarian government and the Hungarian Parliament condemned Russian aggression after the outbreak of the war in the previous government cycle, and they stood up for Ukraine's sovereignty, there is no clearer position than that. Hungary's position on Russia's aggression is perfectly clear and you know it. As you know, Hungary is doing everything in its power to help Ukraine. We have adopted one million refugees who stay longer or shorter, they are here permanently in Hungary, and the government has spent tens of billions of forints from Hungary's budget to help Ukraine and Ukrainian citizens seeking refuge in our country. It is also very regrettable, but if there is a change in this too, we can again welcome the fact that you have so far been clearly on the side of war against peace. [[Moraj in the ranks of opposition parties.]] As the war broke out, you and the other left-wing parties made countless statements in which they urged Hungary to send weapons and send soldiers to Ukraine, thus bringing Hungary into the war, and only broadening the conflict, in which it is in our best interest to keep it tighter or to enter into truce negotiations, to have a truce and to start peace negotiations. A few more words about sanctions. What do Hungary and the Hungarian Government do about sanctions? [[Dr. Brenner Koloman, you voted eight out of eight.]] If I can say so, I would be happy to state the official position of the Hungarian Government, although I know that you know this better than anything else. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Facts are stubborn things!]] This is undoubtedly an old feature of the progressive left... [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2022-11-21-20	Stop yelling at me, please.
u2022-11-21-21	...that they always know everything better than anyone. The Hungarians don't think so. So, what do we do? We do not accept sanctioning measures that are detrimental, harmful and unfavorable to Hungary and the Hungarian people. We therefore demand and achieve derogations and exceptions. These proposals in Brussels are not included. That's what you have to fight for. The Prime Minister of Hungary is conducting very hard negotiations with tooth and nail to ensure that Hungary is subject to exceptions and other rules compared to the Brussels proposals. After protecting the interests of the Hungarian people, after achieving these exceptions and derogations, often also for those countries who benefit from this, but who are silent in the struggle, and then for the sanctions decisions that are no longer detrimental to us, not contrary to our national interests, so that Hungary alone does not veto and do not upset the unity of the EU, we will vote in favour. Now you should answer one question, yes, most of all a question. What's wrong with them? Do you have a problem with the fact that for Hungary, we are fighting exceptions and derogations that protect Hungarian people, and we are fighting for that, and we are not accepting the parts of the proposals that are detrimental to them, or are they concerned that we are not vetoing or tipping over the European unity? Answer that. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. There's a grumble in the ranks of the opposition.]] [[14.00]]
u2022-11-21-22	I now give the floor to Bertalan Tóth, head of the MSZP faction.
u2022-11-21-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The government that collects more and more taxes, but therefore gives less and less services, closes mail, reduces social security, destroys public health is inadequate. The government that uses brutal energy prices to make families, older people, companies bankrupt, endangers the local government's responsibilities is incompetent. The government that can't pay the teachers off the taxes they collect will stop the government because it's incompetent! Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think it's normal for Fidesz to raise the government's salary before the teachers'. Orbán received an increase of two million a month, and ministers' salaries were increased. 16 Secretary of State received a 52 percent increase. Among them were András Tállai, Csaba Dömötör, Zsófia Koncz, Bence Rétvári. None of them will make it sound credible that there's no money for teachers. And I don't think it's normal that they want to raise another million bucks now, while the teachers still have nothing. Is it really the most important question now that the Hungarian Competition Authority serving Fidesz interests, the energy agency actively involved in increasing energy bills, the Public Procurement Authority, the Media Authority and Media Council, which are involved in reducing the freedom of the press, and the millions of dollars of monthly salaries of the leaders of the now established Integrity Authority, should increase by an additional million? The President of the Hungarian National Bank, György Matolcsy, destroyed the forint in co-production with the Orbán Kortal, did not prevent the brutal increase, and brought home the money for the foreign exchange victims. In comparison, do you want to reward him for all this by raising his $5 million salary to $6.2 million a month? Ladies and gentlemen, This is the salary of 20 start-up teachers. Do you think that's okay? We don't think it's okay. Therefore, we propose that we also link teachers' salaries to the payment of the President of the Hungarian National Bank. We ask no more than that the salary of a first-time educator reaches 10 percent of the salary of the President of the Hungarian National Bank. If the salary of the president of the MNB increases, the wages of teachers should increase, at least support this. Dear fellow Members, Fidesz, You will also have to comment on other issues this week: the accession of Sweden and Finland to NATO, the reduction of the tax burden on low incomes and the abolition of brutal energy price increases, the measures introduced by the government and put a huge burden on the daily lives of people and businesses. Which may make the streets darker, less frequent buses and trams, close theaters, cancel concerts, stay empty swimming pools, which make the area's favorite bakery disappear, close the mails, restaurants, cooler in the medical clinics, schools, social institutions. For which a retired couple living in an old-built family home must pay multiple prices for gas or a household using exclusively electricity for electricity. Which made it impossible for solar panels to connect to the grid. Ladies and gentlemen, So far, you've been hiding behind the government's decisions, but now you can show me one by one which side you're on: the side of our NATO allies or the side of the aggressor Putin? Do you represent the interests of the people, or are you just serving the interests of Orbán and the Fidesz elite? Clamps or resistops? These are the real questions. The MSZP, the real left in these cases, is on the right side. Join us for our future, Hungary! [[Applause from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2022-11-21-24	I give the floor to Secretary Csaba Dömötör. Here you go.
u2022-11-21-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In the war, the government has made its position clear on numerous occasions: we condemn Russian aggression, we help Ukrainian refugees, but as far as the decisions in Brussels are concerned, we will not support decisions that are meat-cutting and harmful to Europe and the Hungarian economy. Perhaps he said that this government has reduced social security. Let me just rebut your statement in a few sentences. He mentioned health: we spend 1600 billion more on the health sector than we did in the last government year on the left. The biggest increase in medical wages in recent decades is under way, just as the wages of nurses have increased in several steps. We spend three times as much on social spending compared to 2010. He mentioned the case of the foreign exchange victims, which was the government that led out the foreign exchange loans, and under your governance, the debt on foreign currency loans in Hungary skyrocketed, pushing hundreds of thousands into debt traps. We are also committed to raising wages for teachers, which is why we say that, although there have been increases in recent years, these increases are not enough, so we are also looking for ways to use EU funds to raise teachers' wages. I would ask you with all due respect not to prevent the early arrival of EU funds for yet another reason not to hinder it. Of course, it is the task of opposition parties to constantly criticize the government, but it is not to make constantly exaggerated statements, and at that time I used the mildest expression. On the one hand, they show that we are the only ones with a problem in Europe and on the other, that the government is doing nothing. As far as the overall state of the economy is concerned, because it may not be on the sidelines, the economy is on a growing path, it is above the EU average, and even in the current exceptional situation, economic growth is 4 percent above the EU average. Industrial production has increased by 11 percent from September to September in the last year, and despite all the difficulties, employment is also close to a record level of unemployment of around 4 per cent or less than 4 per cent, compared with 12 per cent in your time. You can say these are just macro numbers, but what exactly did the government do? I'd like to answer that, too. We maintain the reduction of the rent until the average consumption, which means HUF 181 thousand per month for all families. We're maintaining the gas stop that your shadow government would have driven out by the end of August. Not only are we maintaining, but we are also expanding the price stop for basic foods, according to the government's decision, this now applies to eggs and potatoes as well. We maintain the interest rate stop and even extended it to small and medium-sized enterprises, their variable interest rate loans, which alone affects 60,000 Hungarian companies. A new application is launched to support small shops in less than 2 000 inhabitants, and the aim is not to be forced to close even in this exceptional situation. We also want to protect pensions in all possible ways, so there has been a pension increase twice this year, and the pension premium and the inflationary pension supplement have also arrived in the days. And if that wasn't enough, we'd have rebuilt the 13th month's pension that you took from them during your administration. And to refer also to the situation of younger generations, we maintain a broad family support system, and we would even like to further strengthen it, and we will also maintain the facility for young people under the age of 25. On the other hand, you would raise the income tax rate, not only for people under the age of 25, but for all people who earn more, according to some suggestions, the higher tax rate would be applied even in the area of average wages. I mentioned some measures that basically deny that the government had done nothing. The fact is, the left has not provided any support for these decisions, but has not provided any support. They were busy with something else, sending guns and soldiers, campaigning to avoid receiving EU funds, shutting down gas taps, shut down the Paks investment, and campaigning to make a global minimum tax, so there's another tax increase. Now we could easily ask why and why this happened, why this happened, who understands this. In fact, it is very understandable: if left-wing parties were supported from abroad in the order of billions, this would be the result. You didn't get a billion-dollar grant so the sponsors wouldn't ask for anything in return. We've introduced several price-stops, but I propose another measure for you, it's a sales stop: don't sell your politics for rolling dollars, for supporting foreign billionaires, or for Guy Verhofstadt's smile. If they do that, we're in. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[14.10]]
u2022-11-21-26	Next up is Zoltán Komáromi, on behalf of DK.
u2022-11-21-27	Dear House, Although it was not preceded by any wide-ranging social consultation if I wanted to make fun of it, this should have been the subject of a national consultation, yet the draft health reform was presented to Parliament. In 2010, the Orbán government took over a functioning health care system [[Intercoms on the part of the ruling parties.]] In which there were more general practitioners than today, there were more doctors in the hospital, there were more nurses, there was no such emigration. Hospital closures were imposed on the government before 2010, for example, the closure of OPNI, only at the time we took care of the patients; you have not reopened since then, so you obviously consider this a good decision. You've had 12 years to heal the supposedly adopted health care. In comparison to this, the reason why they were rushing and not preparing for health care is because you already feel that something must be done. Something to do, because so far you've only increased the crisis. No illusions, the current transformation plan will cause even more chaos than it already is. Thanks to the Orbán government's so-called health policy, nearly 30,000 people die every year because they do not receive adequate medical care. How's that? In professional forums, Péter Takács, State Secretary for Health, said in order that what there is no agreement, they do not go before the government; yet they went. Here are some serious problems: there are strong risks to the design and transformation of the primary care care unit. Currently, half of the general practitioners are over 60 years of age and 20 percent are over 70 years of age, and they should be on call until 10 p.m. at district duty points. Are you going to do this? Will there be enough professionals for that? The fact that they're shutting down, bringing together GP practices, even though they're gonna say that the coverage is complete, because it's not. Nationalisation of specialist clinics eliminates very important medical-patient relationships near the place of residence and further reduces the leeway of municipalities. There's no way Fidesz mayors are applauding for this. Patients are expected to travel more, because the draft would move the professions needed to provide more professionals to the Centre Hospitals in Vármegye. What about the other institutions? In addition, next year it may be a hospital in Vármegy, which has an emergency department and five inpatients. According to the draft, these will be the employers of all health professionals working in the county. This hospital in the county sounds interesting. I suggest that these institutions should be called the Vármegyesi ispotalok; only doctors and nurses will be much less involved. Specialists and professionals can be forced to commute for up to three hours a day, and this will be at the expense of their work. The Prime Minister's agreement on wage increases is being broken, creating an opportunity for the employer to reduce the wages of doctors by up to 20 percent. We still don't know what rules, what legal authority, what reasons. And there's no mention of a nurse's salary increase. People dying in so-called hospital wards will have to pay under all circumstances. It's a very inhumane procedure, only a soulless police minister can think of that, never a doctor. The crisis is severe and deep. Every week, there's news of where some department closed, and ambulances can barely carry out their daily duties, let alone arrange medical services. The Orbán government has clearly decided that not all Hungarian people's health and long lives are important to him. Anyone who can do so is fleeing from public care to private health, where, to a large extent, Fidesz interests also ask for tens of thousands of forints per test. The corona virus epidemic has shown us there's a big problem. Almost 50,000 people died, and Viktor Orbán promised that anyone who got sick would be protected. The situation is dramatic, and it will remain so as long as Viktor Orbán is the Prime Minister. Shadow government led by Dobrev Klára has entered into real consultations with health professionals [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] He has plans to settle payments, save hospitals and the general medical system. That's what we do. We are not accomplices to the work of the Orbán government that destroys health, we are not going to support the bill. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-11-21-28	Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer. Here you go.
u2022-11-21-29	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear Minister of Shadows, Dear House, After the shadow minister, let us listen to the real health minister of the left-wing governments, Gyurcsány governments, how he remembered the era when the left led the government and health care. Lajos Molnár said: "The second Gyurcsány government was established and it became obvious that there was no money, so it was necessary to decide on restrictions, and the biggest withdrawal affected health care. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Dear Minister of Shadows, The Hungarian doctors, the Hungarian nurses and the Hungarian people, the Hungarian patients know very well what happened when you ran this country and you managed the health care system: there was a withdrawal of 600 billion in healthcare. The doctors and nurses working there remember that it was your time to take a month's wages from the workers. You're talking about the need for a raise. I would like to remind you that from January onwards, doctors' wages will continue to grow, and we will increase the wages of doctors by around 2 to 2.5 times in three years. I would also deny what you said, that there are fewer and fewer doctors. In 2010, there were 33 943, operating-licensed doctors in Hungary, 33 943, this number is now over 38 thousand, honourable Member, so it has not decreased but increased, and the number of working doctors in Hungary has increased by four thousand. I would also deny what you said, that the number of doctors going abroad has increased. No, Your Honour. It has been rising steadily under your governance, that is true, but since 2010, we have reduced foreign employment to one third, the number of doctors seeking authorisation for the first time. So I'm going to disprove what you said in terms of both medical emigration and wages. However, I would have liked you to say a few words about not only one hospital, but several hospitals that you have shut down, because you are the only government that has closed hospitals, honourable Member. They did so by reducing wages and closing hospitals when they started collecting daily costs of care, hospital care, health care when they introduced visits and hospital daily allowances. You said you needed a visitation fee to increase the pay of doctors. Doctors' salaries were reduced, visits were collected. It was only thanks to the referendum initiated by Fidesz-KDNP that we managed to get away from the paid health model, because you privatised, as far as possible, the operation of the hospital would have privatized part of the health register, privatised what I understand in health care, and in the process of collecting more and more money from people. This model would have led us on a very, very dangerous path: hospital closure, paying health care and privatisation, that is what you have done in the area of health care. You mentioned the plague, honourable Member. You can't repeat your words enough here, even before the National Assembly, Mr. Shadow Minister, who called the Eastern vaccines a human experiment, those vaccines [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: That's right. Dr. Zoltán Komáromi nods.]] which nods in Hungary and now that it was a human experiment that saved the lives of four thousand people by allowing us to inoculate more people faster and faster. And if you look around the world at the use of Eastern vaccines in other countries where they were used, it could save the lives of many people. On the other hand, you say that you won't talk anyone into these Eastern vaccines and argue that any vaccine is better than the disease. I cannot understand with reason how and how you may have said such things, honourable Member. You said that there is a need for long consultations on health changes. We agree that there is a need for consultation here, which is why it was important that we sent it to a number of organizations, including the Hungarian Medical Chamber, the Hungarian Health Association, the Hungarian Pharmacy Chamber, the Hungarian Residents Association, the Hungarian Hospital Association, the Democratic Trade Union of Hungarian Workers in the Social and Health Sector. These organisations all received this proposal earlier, as the government has submitted to the Parliament, so that we can agree on these. [[14.20]] Obviously, there are parts of this law that they support, and there are parts that they say they don't support, or they just see it as an authorization clause, and then what comes out of the regulation makes their support dependent on it. But in order to take such steps in basic care and elsewhere, many generally agreed, and it is obviously important for the safety of patients, in order to speed up the healing process, to take these steps continuously. The best way to move forward was by the corona virus epidemic, and what we need to do best. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We also know: shorten waiting lists and increase wages. That is what this proposal is about. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-11-21-30	Now it's time for the group leader of the Christian Democratic People's Party, István Simicskó. I'll give the floor to Congressman.
u2022-11-21-31	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Russian-Ukrainian war and the wrong answers and the wrong EU responses leave a deep impression on the global economy and thus on the Hungarian economy. This is a huge test for everyone if we look at all the governments in Europe and the world. Let me remember the Russian-Ukrainian war, because this is my many speeches, and it is very sad that we have to talk about this subject constantly, which shows that we are seeing a prolonged war, because there have been ongoing fights since February 24th. Let's say we need peace instead of war. The Hungarian position is clear, I think, on behalf of all my fellow Members, including all the factions - we need peace. We must avoid the case, the situation that Clausewitz has already pointed out that wars can escalate on the one hand, so they can spread, and on the other hand a spiral of violence is being created, in which the war does not end more and more instruments, more weapons, more soldiers, and more casualties. So we need sobriety, sufficient composure, and we need to steer the process as far as possible towards peace. Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian government, I must say, recognized the problems and began to remedy the problems. So we see an active, capable and governorable Fidesz-KDNP government, because it is not passively watching events, it is not passively monitoring the release of energy prices, but doing everything it can to strengthen the Hungarian economy, to protect Hungarian families. On the one hand, it is important to say that in such a situation, and also in a crisis situation, we must strive to maintain economic growth. The recession must be avoided, while maintaining fiscal balance, so that the country's budget remains stable, because it also means protecting jobs, the opportunity to do so and broaden support for families. On our part, the primary objective of the Christian Democrats is that families continue to receive support from the government. Because of the government's interventions, therefore, I would like to emphasise that this is why we see a chance for things to go in the right direction and we can avoid the Hungarian economy falling into recession. By the way, in many European countries, this is what we see as a recession. The Hungarian government is also brave on this issue, and, yes, it is planning economic growth. Obviously, it is a question of economic philosophy that the state must intervene in the economy, but in times of crisis public intervention must be enforced in order to protect society and protect jobs. A kind of Christian social program must be carried out, especially in times of crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, In order to combat sanctioned inflation, the government has developed an action plan of 11 measures to reduce inflation and protect jobs. Let me mention a few in this context: among other things, for improving the energy efficiency of small and medium-sized enterprises in manufacturing, saving jobs and increasing their competitiveness, he put out a tender worth some HUF 200 billion. This is a huge help for small and medium-sized enterprises. The government also extends the interest rate stop on retail loans to loans for small and medium-sized enterprises. This results in a savings of HUF 800 billion for small and medium-sized enterprises by the middle of next year. The government is extending the Széchenyi card program. It announces a back-up programme aimed at promoting the energy efficiency improvements of large companies, and the government also announces a factory-saving guarantee programme and investment loan programme with a budget of about HUF 100-100 billion. This is also a huge help for large companies that work for many people. In fact, the government is also paying attention to the tourism sector: it has developed a tourism action plan, hotels and restaurants may be open even in the winter period, despite the high overhead bills. They are helped by the government to operate and operate. There is no need to pay a contribution to the development of tourism and the use of SZÉP cards may be extended over the next period. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me conclude by saying that we have experienced many crises over the past ten years. We have seen that the government helps and protect Hungarian families, the Hungarian people, at all times. In the coming period, it will indeed be crucial for these action plans to be implemented, as this means the chance, the possibility that we do not have to step back, we do not need to see the Hungarian economy in recession, but the Hungarian economy can once again enter an emerging and rising branch. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-11-21-32	I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Sztáray.
u2022-11-21-33	Mr President, Dear House, Congressman! The war in Ukraine since February and sanctions responses have led the European economy to an increasingly serious recession. This process also has a significant impact on Hungary because of the common market. The government's fundamental task is to assist Hungarian companies in this critical situation in order to further increase their capacity, as today the number one enemy of companies is the extraordinary increase in energy prices, which is one of the direct consequences of sanctions policy. The government has therefore taken a number of steps to address the situation. As of 15 November, the interest rate stop will also be extended to loans from small and medium-sized enterprises, so that interest rates on non-state-supported floating rate loans will be fixed at 7,77 per cent. This decision concerns HUF 2000 billion of loans and 60,000 businesses, and by the middle of next year it will save some HUF 80 billion. This also means that on average approximately HUF 1.5-2 million can remain in a Hungarian company's account. It is also a significant facilitation for businesses to obtain the loan products of the Széchenyi Card Programme with a 3.5 percent interest rate by 1 January 2023 and a 5 percent interest rate per year in the first half of 2023. The Cabinet, together with the Hungarian Banking Association, is currently working to ensure that credit institutions that lend more will pay lower bank taxes, which will pay less and more. The government has allocated HUF 200 billion to small and medium-sized energy-intensive manufacturing companies, as you mentioned. This year alone, we will spend HUF 75 billion to compensate for operating cost increases caused by a drastic increase in energy prices, and we will support energy efficiency investments by energy intensive manufacturing SMEs by another 25 billion. On 2 November 2022 our factory rescue program supports the energy efficiency improvements of large enterprises, with a maximum aid intensity of 30 per cent in Budapest and up to 45 per cent in the countryside. Companies that increase their energy supply capacity by a minimum of HUF 200 million can register for the program. The highest funding amount is HUF 6 billion and the total value of the programme is HUF 150 billion. The validity of the HIPA National Investment Agency programme is no better demonstrated than the fact that 168 companies in just 20 minutes claimed HUF 200 billion for a total renewable energy investment of HUF 500 billion. In addition to these companies 214 companies also started, but due to the exhaustion of the source they could not complete the registration. Since all companies operating in Hungary are important to us, we have also given these companies the opportunity to participate in a second round registration. Most applications came from the food industry and the metal industry, but the automotive industry and the chemical industry are also represented at a significant rate. [[14.30]] Registered companies have four months to develop their specific energy efficiency and energy production and development plans. In addition to the factory rescue program, a plant rescue guarantee and credit programme with a HUF 200 billion ceiling will be launched on 1 January 2023. With the help of the investments that have just been launched, Hungary has every chance of getting out of the crisis stronger than before. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-21-34	I now give the floor to the representative of Fidesz, Róbert Zsigó. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-11-21-35	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Europe and Hungary are also living in a time of danger, this decade began with a world epidemic and continued with a war, the latter has been in our neighbourhood for almost nine months. The Hungarian position has been clear since the launch of the first weapon: we condemn the Russian attack, we stand for Ukraine's territorial integrity, and we urge the early start of peace negotiations. Besides, we give all the support we can to those fleeing the war. Last week's data show that almost a million people have arrived in Hungary, and even more people have been forced to leave their homeland and seek a safe country for you and your family. In relation to the war, we also say from the beginning and today we believe that Hungary must stay out of this war. That is why we do not send weapons and Hungarian soldiers to Ukraine. It's just as important that NATO doesn't get involved in the war. The defense alliance must also do everything in its power to bring about peace. Ladies and gentlemen, The situation is fragile, as last week an anti-aircraft missile launched in Ukraine crashed in Poland, demanding the lives of two Polish citizens. This also indicates that if there is a war, then all neighbouring countries are in danger. It is evidence of a good relationship between NATO members that the Alliance has assured Poland of its solidarity as quickly as possible and has done everything in its power to clarify the incident. We are committed to the NATO Treaty and welcome the fact that all Member States are doing so. Dear House, However, in some Hungarian leftist statements there was no trace of complacency. The President of Jobbik, Márton Gyöngyösi, or Katalin, the momentary Czech, sought his own right, cried out responsible for a case that had not been properly informed for hours. In such a dangerous world political situation, it is gravely irresponsible to make blind accusations and make a statement out of anger. It is only in the light of the facts that conclusions can be drawn, if this is not the case, then we could be in a dangerous situation in no time. It is also clear from what has happened that sanctions have not brought the end of the war, the situation is becoming increasingly tense. Even though they promised in Brussels that sanctions policy would lead to peace, today there is no end to the war. Moreover, when a person intervenes in a military conflict by means of sanctions, he takes a stand and takes a step towards one of the fighting parties, that is, the war. Dear Parliament, Europe has increasingly taken measures that have made it part of the conflict itself. It's enough to think that while they didn't want to carry weapons at first, they now carry destructive weapons. Several states in their territory are training combatant Ukrainian soldiers. Later, they said they wouldn't impose energy sanctions, but they did. We are now at the point where the Union would create funding for the economy of Ukraine, which is at war. It's a dangerous process. The fact that sanctions do not work is no better proof than that Brussels politicians have simply begun to remember differently. Josep Borrell, High Representative of the EU for Foreign and Security Policy, is now at a steep turn in his view that I quote, they never expected sanctions to stop the war in Ukraine. The High Representative has thus questioned a fundamental pillar that has so far been the main reason for sanctions. Plus, if it wasn't meant to be peace, then what was it? As a neighbouring country to Ukraine, our most important goal is to eliminate the immediate threat, which requires a ceasefire and then a peace process. This will bring security to our region, which will bring down sanctions for inflation and prices, and this will also allow European economies to operate. Hungary is on the side of peace. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-21-36	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, once again.
u2022-11-21-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me, Congressman, to talk first of all about economic aspects. The leeway of individual governments in Europe is essentially determined by the war situation and the Brussels responses. Watching the debates, I understand, of course, that the opposition parties are trying to make it look like only Hungary is facing difficulties, but that is not the case. Allow me to give you some examples to support this. In the third quarter, GDP has already fallen in eight Member States in Europe, compared to the previous quarter. Even the European Commission expects the euro zone and most EU economies to fall into recession in the fourth quarter. The strongest economy, the German economy, can be expected by the OECD's predictions of a 0.7 per cent recession and will be felt by all other economies. Energy prices have gone down, and over a year, they've increased by 42 percent. The increase in energy prices then drags food prices with it. And yet another worrying consequence: companies, European companies, are either reducing their production or moving their production in more serious cases, because it is simply destroying their competitiveness that the price of energy in Europe is five or seven times higher than in, say, the United States. These, my dear House, are rather gloomy prospects. And when we associate these consequences with sanctions, left-wing parties either deny or cynically react. I highly recommend that you pay attention to the New York Times statement from a few weeks ago. I think that we may agree that it is not exactly the government's mouthpiece, and according to the paper, a recession is also expected for Europe, where, to some extent, in the crisis, to some extent! sanctions are coming back, which should have punished Moscow. Well, the European economy is being punished, and that is not necessarily the case. After that, it is not only weird, but it is annoying that the decision makers who pushed the EU countries into sanctions are now saying that they have not even claimed that sanctions will stop the war. Well, how could they not? ! Such a clear position was made by the President of the European Commission, the President of the European Council, and I had not yet spoken about the pressure behind closed doors. So, if we could have a wish or a request, or both: if possible, not to distort the facts of the past, but to change the policy that put the European economy on a recession path. Change must be made, because what is going on is in some way better for all other regions of the world than for Europe, the European economy and the European people. This is too terrible a condition for us to remain inactive or mute. Dear House, There is one other phenomenon I would like to briefly mention. I have also noticed an interesting phenomenon in recent debates: left-wing parties keep putting adjectives next to their names. The MSZP, I understand, is the real left. Dialogue and LMP are the Green Party. Jobbik is the responsible conservative couple. [[Noise, interventions from opposition parties, including Gergely Arató: What is Fidesz? Tell me, will you?]] All about the joint list of Gyurcsány. What you ladies and gentlemen of the opposition have presented in recent months has had nothing to do with the real left-wing policy or with the responsible conservative policy or with the environment. However, it had something to do with: the desire for power and foreign expectations, so that I should not use the word "ordering." [[Continued intervention from opposition parties.]] That's why they would have sent weapons and soldiers to the battlefield right away. That is why they say that sanctions work, even when it is clear that Europe is in recession. That's why they would have shut down the gas taps, which is why they would have stopped the investment of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. That's why they're campaigning for a global minimum tax, which actually means a drastic tax increase. And why is that? This could be a clear consequence of the fact that they could receive billions from foreign sponsors. [[14.40]] And these sponsors hardly refer so much to the shiny eyes of the shadow ministers; they ask for something, and what they ask is not good for the country. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] We here, in the pro-government benches, do not consider it necessary to clarify our identity with all sorts of indicators, because it is action that determines this. And in these decisions, in these actions, the only thing that matters is what's in the country's best interests. It's not an easy road, it's a debate, it's a debate, it's a debate, but we don't have another one. [[Noise, interruptions in opposition benches.]] If there's one thing I can suggest to you, then step on this path as well. Trust me, it's worth it. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-11-21-38	Dear Parliament, Liliána Grexa will now be speaking before the Ukrainian minority spokesperson for a five-minute period. I give the floor to the speaker, who describes the first sentences in ethnic language and then translates them into Hungarian. Here you go.
u2022-11-21-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Шановний пане Голово! Шановний пане Голово! ШановнΓ депутати, представники нацΓональних меншин! Шановнi Гоcтi! Mr President, Honourable Members and Nationality Spokespersons! Dear Guests, Before I begin my speech on the memory of the Holodomor, I would like to remember that today, nine years ago, the revolution of dignity in Ukraine broke out, when the Ukrainian people did not for the first time stand up for the future of their country in Europe, and they have paid a great price for it, but they have not given up. I welcome Mr. István Balogh, Ukraine's temporary representative in Hungary and the Ukrainian people through him on the occasion of the day of dignity and freedom. On the last Saturday of November around the world, Ukrainians commemorate the genocide carried out by Soviet power in cold blood, the great famine in Ukraine, the innocent victims of the Holodomor, lighting a candle in the window of their home. CHAPTER XX During the century, the Ukrainian people suffered three famines. The largest of these victims was the 1932-33 Holodomor, in which millions of people died of starvation, because the Soviets first requisitioned grain and then the entire food supply from the Ukrainian population. Because of hunger, people's bodies bloated, their skin ruptured, and either tried to appease their hunger with things that were unfit for human consumption, or died of hunger. The Moscow leadership tried to hide his inhumane acts and ordered the death of people who died of hunger not to be introduced into the registers. After the break-up of the Soviet Union, the fact of the genocidium against the Ukrainians became public and clear, and the Hungarian National Assembly, for example, made a unanimous decision in November 2003, remembering the victims of the great famine in Ukraine, condemning the genocide and expressing the solidarity and compassion of the Hungarian people towards the members and descendants of the victims of the Holodomor. Since the members of the Ukrainian nationality of Hungary are also involved in the Holodomor, I would like to thank everyone who voted in favour of this decision in 2003 for 19 years, almost to the day. I am honored that 56 of them are present today in the Parliament and can personally hear my thanks. Thank you very much. In the following cases, the And I would particularly like to highlight Mrs Yaroslava Hartyányi, who, as President of the National Ukrainian Municipality in 2003, Mr Zsolt Semjén, Deputy Prime Minister, and Mr János Harghitai and László Szászfalvi, who did much to prepare the unanimous, courageous and solidarity resolution of the representatives of the Hungarian Parliament. Honourable Members, Dear Speakers, It's been 90 years since 1932, but it's like someone's turned back the clock. After all, we see that Russia has attacked Ukraine, that Ukrainian grain fields and warehouses have been set on fire, that even Russia has blocked Ukrainian grain exports by closing the Black Sea ports, thus endangering the world's supply of grain. Ladies and gentlemen. Unfortunately, this year the Ukrainian people light candles not only for the Holodomor Memorial Day, but now almost every day, because Russia also attacks energy systems in Ukraine. Therefore, often there is no electricity, and the Ukrainians are forced to light it with candles in order to perform lifesaving surgery in hospitals, or the mothers can prepare dinner for their children, at best in their homes, in worse cases in the shelter where they flee from Russian bombs and missiles. This year, the Ukrainian people not only light candles in memory of their ancestors who died of famine, but also fell in the fight against the aggressor attacking Ukraine, as well as the coffin of their sons and daughters who were victims of Russian missile attacks against civilian targets every day. But they continue to fight unwaveringly for their independence. They are doing this as determinedly as the Hungarian people have often done in situations that seem hopeless, even at the cost of grave sacrifices, even when the whole world was silent, and only in Budapest they dared to cry out aloud: "Russkik, home! I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Ladies and gentlemen. That's exactly what the Ukrainian people are shouting right now. That is why I know, I believe, that Hungary, the Hungarian people, will continue to show solidarity with the Ukrainian people. We understand, help and support them in this difficult situation when their sons and daughters give their lives for their country and independence, and millions have been forced to leave their homes and homeland. And in the meantime, I trust that our prayers will be answered. I wish God to bless all Hungarians who are willing to help, and God to protect Ukraine, Hungary and Europe in these times of distress! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]]
u2022-11-21-40	On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Miklós Soltész wishes to respond. I give you the floor.
u2022-11-21-41	I respectfully welcome the Ukrainian community and the spokeswoman. Indeed, the subject being raised is very shocking to all of us, the historical fact, and the horror of the past, the past century, caused by the Lenini, Stalin, Communist-bolshevist dictatorship. His sins were uncounted, the misery of millions, the forced labour of millions, and the destruction of millions on their souls, including the holodomor of 1932-33, or famine. It can be said that Article XX. One of the biggest tragedies of the century, we can say that XX. He was one of the biggest villains and shames of the century. Of course, there were a lot of things involved. The collectivisation of the communist Soviet regime, which destroyed farmers, the behaviour of local collaborating communist leaders, the cruel executive power of Molotov, played a role, and it must also be said that Ukraine suffered the greatest loss in its number during that time, but it affected millions of people living in the Soviet Union, other peoples and nations as well. In memory of this monstrosity, the Hungarian Parliament, and I add, interestingly or in an understandable way, is not only the Hungarian Parliament, but also the former countries of the former communist regime, who made the decision in this regard. How strange that only 14 countries in the world have done this and have not yet joined this joint call. However, since February 24, as you said, we have unfortunately had to give new help, but now we have to make a completely different, tangible decision, not a concrete decision, but tangible help to Ukraine, Ukraine and the refugees. But here I have to read the message that Peter Szijjártó did a few months ago, because it is still valid:. We have been talking clearly from the beginning about the war going on next door. We condemn military aggression, stand for Ukraine's sovereignty, allow hundreds of thousands of refugees running for their lives, and carry hundreds of tons of food and other donations in the framework of the greatest humanitarian action in our country's history. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Dear Parliament, We see where sanctions lead. We see that sanctions have not stopped the aggressor. [[Gergely Harvesto: Aren't you ashamed? Dr. Brenner Koloman and Gergely Harvesto: Shame! Shame!]]
u2022-11-21-42	Calm down. [[14.50]]
u2022-11-21-43	We see that sanctions are causing economic chaos, making it impossible, or at least in many ways difficult, to help people who appear here in Hungary and need help, and even help in Subcarpathia, Internal Ukraine. However, one thing is certain that the Hungarian position has helped, and many now increasingly understand it. By carrying neither weapons nor soldiers, Transcarpathia became an island of peace. With Transcarpathia being an island of peace, and there is no struggle, no attack, no life situation that will prevent them from running the economy there, or from receiving internal Ukrainian refugees, this is an important aspect. It is only an important aspect because, in recent times, a huge struggle has been developed to prevent another famine, because we all see that through the Black Sea, they can transport grain and wheat as a result of the agreement between the Russian-Ukrainian agreement, the great powers and Turkey, but often this is not the case. And where can we help you? Through Hungary. What are the settlements? Strawberry, Zahony and Shiny Lite. Thanks to the modern railway crossings of the Eperjeske-Záhony-Fényeslitke triangle, food can now reach millions of tons of food not only to Europe but also to Africa to prevent another major problem. We can help you through a lot of other things we've said in the past few weeks and days. Thank you very much for your call, your attention. What we can say is that we are consistent, we want a ceasefire, we want peace talks, and then we want peace. God bless you. [[Intruder from Fidesz: That's right! Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-11-21-44	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2022-11-21-45	Dear Parliament, Ferenc Varga, Jobbik, asked to speak after the agenda today; Peter James, independent. Bernadett Bakos, LMP; Előd Novák, Mi Hazank; Tamás Mellar, Dialogue; Róbert Dudás, Jobbik; Lajos Löcsei, Momentum; Zita Gurmai, MSZP; Balázs Barkóczi, DK; Péter Harrach, KDNP; Mónika Dunai, Fidesz. Dávid Dócs, Mi Hungary, applied for the speech following the agenda tomorrow. On Wednesday, Dániel Z. Karpát, Jobbik, Éva Sebők, Momentum applied for a speech after the agenda.
u2022-11-21-46	Dear House, Katalin Novák, President of the Republic, sent the Parliament a transcript of the termination of the term of office of Minister and State Secretary. I'd like to ask Mr. Lajos Szűcs to explain.
u2022-11-21-47	Mr. László Fat, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Article 9 (four) (j) of the Fundamental Law, Article 20 (three) (b) and the 2018 CXXV on Government Administration. Law 197. On the basis of Article 4 of the Act, on the proposal of the Prime Minister, I concluded that Dr. László Palkovics, Minister of Technology and Industry, had ceased his mandate with effect from 14 November 2022. In addition, Article 9 (four) (j) of the Fundamental Law and the 2018 CXXV on Government Administration. Law 205. On the basis of paragraph 1 and paragraph 4 of paragraph 4, on the proposal of the Prime Minister, Dr. Gáspart Maróth, State Secretary of the Ministry of Defence, was relieved of this mandate with effect from 15 November 2022. Budapest, 15 November 2022 Yours sincerely, Katalin Novak.
u2022-11-21-48	Dear House, I would like to inform you that the Prime Minister is 2/2022. [[CHAPTER XI 14.]] With effect from 15 November 2022, the Minister for Technology and Industry entrusted the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office with the exercise of his duties and powers. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. We are now deciding on exceptional proposals. The Government has initiated an exceptional procedure for the Parliament to discuss the T/2033 on the Directorate-General for Auditing European Grants and the amendment of certain laws adopted at the request of the European Commission with a view to the effective conclusion of the conditioning procedure. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. The Government has initiated the possibility of submitting an amending proposal within three hours of the decision on the exceptional procedure, the consolidated debate will take place on Tuesday 22 November 2022 as the first item on the agenda, the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote will take place on Tuesday 22 November 2022. Rule 62 of the House Rules Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the hearing in exceptional proceedings without debate. I would like to draw your attention to the need for a vote in favour of more than half of the Members, i.e. one hundred Members, to order an exceptional procedure. Dear House, Now it's time for decision-making. I'm asking you, do you accept T/2033? The Court of First Instance held its hearing in exceptional proceedings. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House has decided on an exceptional procedure by 132 votes to 15, with 15 abstentions. In accordance with our agreed decision, amendments can be submitted at 5:57 p.m. today. Dear Parliament, The Government initiated an exceptional procedure for the Parliament to discuss the second edition of 2022 on the list of Ministries of Hungary. Act T/2099 amending Act T/2099 and certain related laws Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. The Government has initiated the possibility of submitting an amending proposal within three hours of the decision on the exceptional procedure, the consolidated debate will take place on Tuesday 22 November 2022 as the second item on the agenda, the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote will take place on Tuesday 22 November 2022. As I have just said, according to the regulations of the House, the Parliament decides on an exceptional procedure without debate. The adoption requires the vote of more than half of the Members. We now have a decision to make again. I'm asking you, do you accept T/2099? The Court of First Instance held its hearing in exceptional proceedings. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament accepted the hearing of the proposal in exceptional proceedings by 126 votes in favour, 36 votes against and 1 abstention. Proposals for amendments to the agreed decision can be submitted at 5:59 p.m. today. Dear House, We are now deciding on a motion to amend the agenda. The Fidesz Group suggested that the Parliament's proposal for a meeting on 21 and 22 and 23 November 2022 should be amended to change the T/2031 on the amendment of certain laws on health matters. The general debate on bill No 2 shall take place as the last item on the agenda of the Wednesday, 23 November 2022, pending closure. Anyone who agrees with that, please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. [[15.00]] Dear House, I declare that the DK Group has proposed to supplement the agenda proposal, which is proposed in the House Rule 15 of the Decision. I refused pursuant to paragraph 4a of Section 4a, given that it is not subject to Article 15. It has been submitted in accordance with paragraph 4 of Section 4, for the many times now. The proposer of the rejected proposal initiated the repeal of the President's decision. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate by raising hands. I would also like to announce that Group Leader Ferenc Gyurcsány has initiated a repetition of the vote using a ballot counting machine. In view of this, the raise-up vote will already be held using the ballot counting machine. In accordance with the motion, I am now asking the Honourable Parliament to maintain the scope of the OE-42/572-1/2022. President's decision. Please vote using the ballot counting machine. [[Vote.]] I declare that the Speaker's decision was maintained by 117 votes in favour, 45 votes against, with two abstentions. As Parliament has so decided, the proposal to supplement the agenda will not be decided. I declare that the MSZP Group has also proposed to supplement the agenda proposal, which is proposed in the House Rule 15. I also refused pursuant to § 4a because it didn't comply with Article 15 once again. § 4 specifications. The proposer of the rejected proposal initiated the repeal of the President's decision. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate by raising hands. I would also like to announce that Mr Bertalan Tóth has initiated a repetition of the vote using a voting counting machine. In view of this, the raise-up vote will be held by using a machine counting the vote. In accordance with the motion, I am now asking the Honourable Parliament to maintain the scope of the OE-42/573-1/2022. President's decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare that the Speaker's decision was maintained by 116 votes in favour, 46 votes against and two abstentions. As a result, we do not decide on the proposal to supplement the agenda. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I note that the visible majority of this House has adopted the agenda proposal. Dear Parliament, In the absence of a committee agreement, on the basis of the motion tabled by the President, we are now deciding on the Commission's discussion and decision-making. I ask the Honourable Parliament to ask the Committee on Sustainable Development of the European Union for the period 2015-2020. B/1934 submitted on the implementation of the National Environment Programme. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare that the Parliament has asked the designated committee with 117 votes in favour, 45 against, with two abstentions. Dear House, Now, at 3:15 p.m., we move on to interpellation negotiations after a brief technical break. (Sunning: 15.03 15.07 President: István Jakab Note: Dr. Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Szűcs)
u2022-11-21-49	Dear Parliament, Welcome, fellow Members. I would like to ask my fellow Members to take their seats, to continue our work. Thank you for your understanding. Dear Parliament, Now, we have interpellations at 3:07 p.m. László Sebian-Petrovszki, a representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Regional Development:. What kind of rule of law where final court judgments are not enforced? It's an address. In reply to the interpellation, Prime Minister Antal Rogán, who is competent and competent on the subject, has been appointed as the Minister of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister. State Secretary Csaba Dömötör responds to the interpellation at the request of the Minister. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-11-21-50	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Although this story does not have much to do with territorial development, it is within the framework of this ministry that the task of restoring the rule of law is hopeless for your government, so I had to submit my interpellation here. [[Bence Rétvári: Rubber bullet! That's your rule of law!]] It is a matter, Mr House, that, despite a court ruling, the organizing company entrusted by your government refuses to issue the bills and contracts of state events on 20 August last year. The first time I asked for the contracts of the celebrations commemorating the establishment of the state, and after they didn't give it, I was forced to file a lawsuit. The Metropolitan Court ordered this company, your company, to issue the memorable documents of the memorable sissy parade in the first instance, and then in the judgment of the Metropolitan Court in the second instance. Secretary of State, people have a right to know when, why and how much they spent on the tax-paying forints they paid for events on 20 August last year, and therefore DK wants to publish these data. Visit Hungary National Tourism Organization Nonprofit Zrt. However, it refuses to fulfil the obligation imposed by the court. What is there to hide that Hungarians should not know about, from whose taxes this expensive monstrosity has come to fruition? I'm guessing the guys were making money. Until we find out, my dear Secretary of State, how can you represent in Brussels, that the rule of law is now here, that public procurement will be transparent, and that there will be no theft if the court ruling does not matter in such a seemingly simple case? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-11-21-51	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör. Here you go. [[15.10]]
u2022-11-21-52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, The Szent István Day event, mentioned in its interpellation, was a four-day event, with hundreds of thousands celebrating Hungary's birthday. Just to show the order of magnitude: on the weekend of 20 August, 104,000 guest nights were spent in Budapest, and hundreds of thousands of people watched the holiday show live. I would like to point out that the economic, tourism and employment impact of the event series is significant and contributes to the preservation of many jobs in the catering sector. The importance of this, I do not think, is particularly important in this exceptional situation. I would like to inform you that the contracts of the 2021 Szent István Day series are open to the public in accordance with the laws in force, which can be accessed on the e-procurement system website. In addition, the Hungarian Tourism Agency published a detailed breakdown of the total cost of the event series on its website. As regards the dispute you have referred to, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law grants everyone the right to appeal against all judicial, administrative or administrative decisions which, in your view, would be contrary to your right or legitimate interest. It is also part of the system of redress that the parties to proceedings have the opportunity to lodge an application against final judgments. In this case, there was nothing more than an entity making use of the legal options: it initiated a review of the final court ruling, the suspension of enforcement, which was approved by the Curia. Let me add, honourable Member, that it is still better to discuss various legal procedures or what the content of the festive events was like than how it could have happened that more people were killed during the events on 20 August. It's not a theoretical idea, because it happened under your government. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-21-53	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman if he'll take the answer.
u2022-11-21-54	Thank you very much. I was hoping that as one of the leaders of the new champions of the restoration of the rule of law, the Secretary of State would say that he apologizes, he is ashamed that this has happened, that he has not issued contracts, bills, detailed accounts of the money. [[On the signal of Csaba Dömötör:]] No, what you referred to on the website, there is no such thing, there is a framework contract and there are general amounts, and you will immediately arrange for this final court ruling to be carried out, this is your company. Compared to that, there was all sorts of misconceptions, references to something else and references to something from 15 years ago. There is no reason to wonder, because of the crimes of the Orbán government, EU funds do not arrive in Hungary. These are what we just saw with you. I will make it clear that the lawsuit will continue, we will wait for the Curia's decision, and what goes public, the bills, the contracts, we will make them public, and we will not go further in this case. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2022-11-21-55	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I would like to inform you that a decision will be taken in accordance with our agreed agenda on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Sándor Szabó, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:. Still, do you want to win through the public services, with the closure of 366 post offices? It's an address. By replying to the interpellation, Prime Minister István Nagy, who is responsible and competent according to the subject, commissioned the Minister for Economic Development. At the request of Minister János Fónagy State Secretary, he responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-11-21-56	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, At the meeting of the Parliament on 2 November, the Prime Minister said that the Hungarian State cannot grant support to loss-making companies, which is prohibited by an EU directive. Well, it seems that the Prime Minister did not tell the truth twice, because the Magyar Posta was massively profitable during the socialist governments that you called so much before 2010, so much that it paid dividends, many billions to the Hungarian state. Then, indeed, there were a few years when the post office was losing money, but in the last two years, the Magyar Posta had almost HUF 25 billion in profits. The EU does not prohibit anything, as it allows the Hungarian government to reimburse the additional costs and additional burdens of universal postal service. As you have reimbursed this in the previous period, you will reimburse it in the following year, as the budget is set at HUF 5.6 billion. What does that mean for the population? It means that, indeed, the redirection of workers is much larger and takes extra time, people can give up their postal services, such as the payment of cheques, mail delivery much more difficult, much more energy. Unfortunately, this is already shown by the experience, since in November 12, 366 of 210 settlements have been closed. The inhabitants of the small settlements or parts of the city may, of course, feel rightly that the Hungarian state has actually failed them, or, in other words, has given up on them. Even in 2012, the Prime Minister said that there is no need to profit from public services or that public services are not meant to make money from them, this sector is a profit world. Since then, it seems like the world has turned a corner with you. Even today's governing parties stood up for the opening of rural post offices before 2010. One of their MPs said that closing the post offices meant making the countryside impossible. I think that's the way it's supposed to be right now. Zoltán Kovács said on the subject that the State has tasks that, even if they are loss-making, although we can see that the post office has not been that in the last two years, it still has to do so, because the State is the State that also carries out its loss-making tasks. And if they said so at the time, then I ask the Secretary of State: why did the Prime Minister refer to the Magyar Posta as a loss-making company when, according to the report, he has been making billions of dollars in profits for years? What EU ban is the Prime Minister talking about when it has been planned for many years to compensate for the additional burden on Magyar Posta? And why are the mails closed if the company is profitable and its additional burden is reimbursed by the central budget anyway? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-11-21-57	Thank you. Dear Parliament, State Secretary János Fónagy responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2022-11-21-58	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, It is also well known to you that the war next door and the misguided Brussels sanctions policy have led to the release of energy prices in Europe, which forced them to take extraordinary measures not only in our country but throughout Europe. The Hungarian government also had to take action and, in addition to a number of other measures, we had to impose a 25 percent reduction in gas consumption in public bodies and state-owned companies. The runaway energy prices have also put Magyar Posta in a difficult position, and the penalty premium has so far resulted in an additional cost to the post office of approximately HUF 20 billion. You have also mentioned, and it is also known to you that the Hungarian State cannot grant budget support to the post office, which would constitute prohibited aid. Magyar Posta Zrt. As a universal postal service provider, you can only receive public money to alleviate the so-called unfair additional burden. The ceiling is EUR 15 million per year. It is clear that this framework is insufficient to compensate for the operating losses already existing and, contrary to your claim, the additional cost of 20 billion. You mistakenly claim that the operating result of Magyar Posta was positive, Magyar Posta has been loss-making for many years. The two years you mentioned did not come from your activities, but from the turnover of the purchase of the Hungarian Stamp Museum by the Hungarian State. Even in this crisis, the government is undertaking a full internal renewal of the post, precisely to reduce these losses. The general service activities of Magyar Posta remain. According to international standards, Hungary has to operate some 1500-1600 post offices for the number of settlements and souls in Hungary. [[15.20]] Compared to this, 2600 are now in operation, and the Hungarian population also has around 2200 post offices. We see that the Hungarian Post should become a modern state company with a customer-centred, competitive, digital service-oriented approach to meet the country's largest postal service and parcel logistics company in the 21st century. The requirements of the century. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-21-59	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman if he'll take the answer. You have the floor.
u2022-11-21-60	Mr. Secretary. People, believe me, don't care what the Hungarian Post has to gain from. They look at one thing: that it's profitable, and if it's profitable, it doesn't matter. You're used to saying that if something, someone has money, you should run it. It seems to you that it is quite a narrative that the state is trying to pass on its own tasks and the costs involved. We see that teachers want to pay their wages with the EU, the state actually withdraws from social support, solves the individual, solves the family's own situation. Now, it seems to me that this is the direction for the administration of the post to be resolved by the municipalities, even if I respect it, I respect those city leaders who, because of the people on the ground, are able to make some kind of compromise on this matter with you. Mr. Secretary. The state should carry out its duties, not serve the national right-wing capital, but perform its tasks. So in this form, I cannot accept your answer. [[Applause in the benches of MSZP.]]
u2022-11-21-61	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I would like to inform you that, according to our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Mr Endre Tóth, representative of the Momentum, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. How does the government motivate teachers? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-11-21-62	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Let us start with the common denominator: we agree that the country needs motivated and respected teachers, as stated at the debate on public education. We also agree that this will require a significant increase in the current teacher's wages, since your fellow group member, János Harghitai, called these wages shamefully low, and even President Katalin Novák considered them ridiculous. So far, the common denominator, and then we're going to get to the differences, because you think that a significant increase is going to be a 10% increase in teachers' wages from next January, in an environment where inflation exceeds 20 percent. When the price of bread rises by 80%, the price of cheese by 75%, the price of butter by 71 percent, when teachers also have to pay the Europe-record food inflation hit by the Fidesz premium, then a 10 percent wage increase, but even a 21 percent wage increase, is nothing more than a beauty patch on the brutally deteriorating teacher-lifeline. It's the educator who's always ahead of a pay raise at a banner at a recent protest. That's what many of the teachers are feeling right now, listening to your promises. The tens of thousands protesting about the education crisis do not expect uncertain promises, several steps of absolution, but a significant and immediate wage increase, because if the prestige of the teaching career does not immediately improve dramatically, the leaving will continue to grow in the coming years, the pedagogical society will continue to grow. According to research, five thousand teachers will retire each year in the coming years, while only 1,600 beginners will be employed. We have the right to ask: who will teach our children in five years' time? Unfortunately, their announced, uncertain promises do not answer this question. But to give you a tip here at the end: I suggest that you start with the real appreciation of teachers, give a significant year-end reward to teachers, and now, exceptionally, don't pay the school principals two million reward as at the end of last year, but really motivate those who work for students and students. So I ask Mr Secretary of State: do you consider the award system at the end of last year to be fair, which focused solely on the district leaders? I'm also asking you how you're going to pay the teachers an end-of-the-year reward, and if so, how much. And finally, again this year, did the school district directors receive motivational recognition or a different kind of reward in recognition of their inexorable merit in the threat of protesting teachers? I'm waiting for a straight answer. [[Applause in the benches of Momentum.]]
u2022-11-21-63	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2022-11-21-64	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Let me quote to you the shadow minister of your own shadow government, Klára Dobrev, who said this January's teacher's wage increase that teachers do not need a pre-election government business, so you said this year's 10 percent wage increase. As has been said many times in this Parliament, next year's budget includes HUF 86 billion in surplus on the education line for next year, and a significant part of this 10% wage increase is covered. As we have said earlier, we will certainly expect such a wage increase in the following year, but we would like to give a much higher wage increase, honourable Member. We would do so by pouring together government resources and European Union funds, precisely so that teachers could receive a larger-scale wage increase from the next year. There, too, would be a much higher wage increase of 20 percent or above, and so on, in the coming years, the wages of teachers would increase. This would require at least a national minimum, a national cooperation. In the last few weeks, when you had to self-handle, you were in favour of teachers when you had to vote, unfortunately you were not; and not only here, but also in the European Parliament. On the educational debate day, we told you that there were six occasions for you to stand up for teachers and help them to raise teachers' wages not only from domestic but also from EU sources, and six out of six were opposed to higher salaries for teachers. So it is quite regrettable that you unfortunately do not express your position in favour of teachers in your votes. Nevertheless, we strive to reach an agreement with the Commission: 17 proposals have been put before the Hungarian Government and the Hungarian Parliament, which have been voted in favour here in recent weeks. We regret that we cannot count on the Hungarian left to vote in an accelerated procedure, and then, when there was a final vote on the law, we could not count on you, because if it were up to you, there would be no agreement, but this process would go even further, and teachers would have access to their own money later. Honourable Congressman, We were very looking forward to you, even on the debate day, to have a 180-degree turn in left-wing politics and finally vote in favour of a teacher's wage increase, not to say everywhere that Hungary is a dictatorship, and if these money comes here, then all these money will be stolen in Hungary, because on the one hand it is obviously not true, and on the other hand, if it gets to teachers, then this is not logically possible. But it doesn't matter to you that teachers do well, but to you that the greater the uncertainty, the dissatisfaction, they take advantage of the situation that there is huge inflation in all countries of Europe due to war and sanctions that have failed. This is obviously the case for teachers, as is the case with everyone else, because while the reduction in public utility bills protects everyone with an average consumption of HUF 181 thousand, everyone in the shops experiences every day the price increase, which is also increased in Hungary and in Austria and Spain and in Estonia and Ireland. You do not want to help this situation, but you want to escalate it even more, so you are pro-war and therefore you are pro-sanctioned, and therefore you are not interested in ending the war and using EU funds, but you are doing everything you can to stop it, honourable Member. My advice to you is not to follow Gergely Arató, who, as Secretary of State, is now, Shadow Minister, then Secretary of State said that the demonstration is not a good answer to the problems, and the wallet is not discouraged by the demonstration's original intention. In your left-wing culture, it seems that this kind of protest is encoded by deafness. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] We, on the other hand, recorded before the first demonstration strike that we have the same goal: raising wages. I ask you to make a solemn pledge that your MEPs will no longer vote against the sources of the teacher's wage increase. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-21-65	Thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman to accept the answer. You have the floor.
u2022-11-21-66	Dear Secretary of State, Well, you talked about a lot of things, but you didn't touch my questions at all, because I asked you about the rewards. He didn't answer that at all, and I think that's a no for teachers, so this year there won't be a teacher's reward at the end of the year either. This is all the more sad, because we can see that many people receive these rewards, including you received a four million motivational award last year during the campaign period. I can't appreciate it any other way than that this reward is actually a juda money that you get along with the school district leaders. [[Bence Rétvári: Judas money! You've got two billion forints!]] To betray the cause of education, to open up the panel collection here, and continue to speak out of Parliament. So I can't accept your answer. [[Applause from the opposition ranks. Bence Rétvári: You'll get your juda money in dollars, my friend! Eszter Vitalos: Dollars!]] [[15.30]]
u2022-11-21-67	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman did not accept the Deputy Minister's reply. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Ander Balázs, a representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister:. When will the brutal reduction and sale of the national human capital be completed? It's an address. At the request of the Minister, the State Secretary of the Ministry responsible for the matter, Ms Zsófia Koncz, State Secretary, responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-11-21-68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, With regard to employment laws, the government has shown its protein once again, as it has once again been twisted on the neoliberal press that pushes those Hungarian workers into the pliers, who, by the way, carry this country on their shoulders. Under the proposed amendment to the Labour Code, employers will be able to refuse to grant freedom or to dispose of their workers who have changed their working ability without any severance pay in such a way that this termination is actually imposed on them. The fact is, you haven't changed anything about the fact that the multi-k colony is our country, if we don't consider it a change, that one or two provinces of this colony have been ripped out of their own oligarchs. May I remind you that in 2014 at the conference held for Arab investors in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, Viktor Orbán tried to attract capital owners, and Hungary's competitiveness was described as surprisingly cheap compared to its quality, and the labour code is extremely flexible. I would also like to translate this for fidesz ears: this means that the Hungarian worker is underpaid, and you would like to have wood cut on his back. Not so long ago, the domestic apostle of the sociopathic neoliberal concept, Viktor Orbán's friend, President of the Chamber of Industry, László Parragh, also voted in favour of this creed, when he indicated the wage-receiving of the wreckage society in Hungary as a competitiveness paradigm. Well, secretary of state, pro-government gentlemen, you offer strategic partnerships to multi-enterprises that do not often care about our natural values or the preservation of traditional social values, but would force strategic servants to those Hungarian workers who truly maintain this country, to those who get up early, work hard and do not hold their hands for aid, to those who draw the yoke and pay honor. What happens to these people when these laws come into force? I'm asking you with respect. And after these people get sick, they get sick of overworked work, you'd throw them away like some useless biorobot, and if they did, they'd certainly take the seventh skin off of one of the most hard-working, but low-paid Hungarian workers in Europe. I believe that deregulation of workers' rights for neoliberal ears is a favourite concept, but as a responsible conservative, I would like to ask you when you will finally finish doing South America here in the middle of Europe and when to withdraw, say, these very harmful, very destructive elements of the bill. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman applauds.]]
u2022-11-21-69	Thank you. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Zsófia Koncz responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2022-11-21-70	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to thank you for participating in the general debate on the bill amending certain employment laws and for your support for the bill. [[Ander Balázs: There are positive elements.]] I think that you are concerned with a very, very important issue, and I think that one of the most important objectives for the Hungarian Government is employment policy and jobs. On the one hand, we have made a very important commitment to create one million jobs. I think it is a huge achievement that this has been achieved and 4.7 million people are working in Hungary today. But I think that you, living in South Somogy, know exactly what the situation of Hungarian workers was like during the MSZP-SZDSZ governments, how uncertain it was, how difficult it was to see that almost 12 percent of unemployment was in 2010 and that we started as the EU's motorist after the 2010 government change. This government has always had an extremely important objective of paying attention to wages, especially to raising the minimum wage, and in eight years the left-wing people raised it by a total of 23 500 forints, and it is therefore a big thing that the minimum wage is now 200 thousand forints. So I think this is a very important result. If you look at the fact that the real value of the minimum wage fell by 2 percent between 2002 and 2010 in our country, then a very, very sad result is that in the other V4 countries there was a 30% increase in that period. I think these are numbers that are truly absolutely disappointing, and you can see how they were about workers, jobs and employment policy before 2010. Here between 2002 and 2010 the VAT of all food was increased by the left, more than double the food. In 2010, the national government focused on the work-based society instead of aid, and, as I mentioned, the idea of a million new jobs was met. I think that, despite the war and the energy crisis, it is therefore unbelievable that, in practice, for the fourth month, the number of employees is above the record threshold. And it is also a big deal that, by 2022, unemployment has become 3.5 percent, the fifth lowest unemployment rate in the European Union. Increasing actions since 2010 will gradually improve the financial situation and quality of life of families. This is a very important objective for us. You mentioned the situation in the issue of freedom. With regard to the refusal to grant freedom, I would like to point out that the most important and guaranteeing aspect of the amendment contained in the bill is that the employer is subject to a written obligation to state reasons in the event of a change in the date of issue of the leave. The reasons must be reasonable, i.e. only in the event of an exceptionally important economic interest of the employer or of a direct and serious concern to his operation, the employer may exercise that right. The employer's unilateral action is further limited by the general requirements of conduct, such as fair law enforcement, fair discretion and the prohibition of abuse of rights. I think that the current sanctions policy puts Europe in a very difficult position. I would like to ask you to help me, Mr President of your party, to keep saying that sanctions are good and work well, please intervene and not to voice and adopt a position that violates the interests of the Hungarian people. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-11-21-71	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2022-11-21-72	Madam Secretary, I appreciate your efforts, but I cannot accept that answer. I can't accept it until the container cities are built in our country. I cannot accept it until the foreign labour force arrives in Hungary uncounted. And if you've been so kind as to mention South Somogy, my narrower Patriot, let me mention that there is only one job vacancy with 10.9 jobseekers. So, as long as there are such situations in Hungary, I think that what you're talking about doesn't fully represent the reality. Yes, by the way, during the debate on the bill, I mentioned that there are a number of positive elements of this proposal. The evil of salad laws tends to occur by mixing in such finer snacks those which, in turn, are absolutely indigestible, I think that they are even more toxic to the already bad domestic working environment. So once again, when will the sale of human capital in Hungary be completed? I think that as a conservative, I have to ask this question over and over again. Thank you. [[A rare applause from the lines of Momentum, Dialogue, LMP and MSZP.]]
u2022-11-21-73	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I would like to inform you that a decision will be taken in accordance with our agreed agenda on tomorrow's meeting. [[15.40]] Dear Parliament, Jámbor András Imre, a representative of the Dialogue, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister with the title of "Familys left on the side of the road." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-11-21-74	Thank you very much. In recent days, several mayors, including Krisztina Baranyi, have been the IX. from the district and András Piko from the VIII. from the district, he drew attention to the fact that the existential safety of many thousands of families living in municipal tenements has been compromised, because they are not subject to the public's rules of protection. There are several reasons for the current mass emergency, but the main thing is that in the buildings concerned, the central gas boiler providing heating and hot water belongs to a single gas meter and the state MVM did not take into account the number of independent apartments when billing. In practice, this means that families living here have to pay eight times the price for gas, which is physically impossible to manage at their income levels. The same has already happened in 2012, at the time of the introduction of the reduction, it took three years to correct the error, but now that the problem is familiar and the solution is well known, it should be enough for three weeks. Earlier in this case, I asked the government to restore justice, especially among those living in social housing. Then it turned out that the problem is much wider, in the constituency, in Józsefváros, there are several condominiums where the municipality is the owner, but not the public, but the MVM pays a market price to the residents for the rent. There are several apartments where they do not receive energy prices reduced by below-average consumption because the charge-card watch is owned by the trustee and not by the apartments in accordance with the rules. What I ask of you is that the basis should be in a rule of law: let us make sure that no resident pays an energy price above average by under-average consumption. In Hungary there is nearly 19 thousand dollars of GDP generated for all inhabitants, or almost 8 million forints. On the other hand, it's an extremely wasteful country. In this country, the government can spend HUF 57 billion on zero-informed, but maximum lie consultation. In this country, the budget for next year will be amended one week before the increase in overhead by giving 100 billion to propaganda, top sports and domestic secret services. In this country, the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister can afford to travel with two different state jets to an economic meeting in Asia. In this country, there is money to raise the salary of the Prime Minister, ministers and ministers of state, and there is also money to brutally increase the salary of the President of the Central Bank. In this country, the quarterly profits of the four richest Hungarian companies were HUF 550 billion. Thus, the government cannot rely on the fact that it cannot afford to finance the heating of a few hundred families. We live in Central Europe, where the land is cold, and the walls of the house, primarily because of the fault of the Orbán government, which uses the EU funds for this, are typically not isolated. So I'd like to ask that we solve this problem at last, and that it shouldn't happen by substandard consumption that someone is paying above average. We have seen in many cases that the government can make such a correction. I ask you to do this in this case, too, and not for the self-governments who are already being bullied to pay for these people not to go out on the street, or for these residents to essentially not go bankrupt. Thank you. [[Applause from the floors of Dialogue and MSZP.]]
u2022-11-21-75	Thank you. Dear Parliament, At the request of the Minister, Parliamentary Secretary Zsófia Koncz responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2022-11-21-76	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Listening to his interpellation before I come to the specific question, two things really hit my ear. One relates to the national consultation. I think it is very important that the Hungarian Government asks people for their opinion on sanctions for the first time in Europe. This is something that is very important about seeing how Hungarian people think. The other one you mentioned about the Secret Service. Last week's National Security Committee meeting clearly shows that unfortunately this is absolutely necessary, because funding their campaign with foreign funds is, I think, very sad, and besides the fact that it is illegal, morally questionable. And we don't know what they promised in return. When we are talking about energy prices and how much costs are increasing, spending for Hungarian families, let us add that if these sanctions and energy issues were to go according to the promises you made, there might not be any energy. I think it's worth talking about when you're really worried about families. You have also said very differently about the reduction of the rent in recent years. Their former vice-president, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, demanded that the Russian gas be closed, according to him this source should be rolled away and closed. The mayor, who you were a former advisor to, said: "I'm glad that the sanction package was in place, and Hungary couldn't stop it after all. According to their former MEP, Benedek Jávor, the current sanctions are insufficient, we need more extensive and comprehensive economic pressure, which also affects energy markets. In 2016, the mayor of Ferencváros called the reduction of the rent simply as a lie, to which you now intended the first half of your interpellation. I think that if you think the reduction in the rent is a lie, then it's very interesting to be asked about this. I think it is also important to highlight the cost of the Brussels sanctions policy that you are enthusiastically supporting for Hungary. EUR 10 billion a year and EUR 4 billion directly to the Hungarian budget, about HUF 1600 billion. The Hungarian economy is in such a deficit due to the high energy prices due to sanctions, which the country has to pay. Hungary cannot spend this amount on social purposes, such as wage increases and tax reductions. In light of this, I hope that you will see that maintaining the reduction in overhead costs is indeed a serious achievement. Hungary is the first in Europe in terms of family allowances, as we give 30% of the average income, and in Austria it is 6 percent. Maintaining the cost reduction is also a very important help for people in a difficult financial situation. As I have already mentioned to you, although you quoted this less gracefully in your speech, negotiations are ongoing with the municipalities on energy issues. Our fellow Member, Zsolt Láng, is negotiating with the capital and district authorities as commissioners of government, and the operational tribe of the energy threat is also constantly investigating the issues that arise, including the situation of the municipal tenements that you have raised. Perhaps you agree that, in this exceptional situation, we need the government, the municipalities and the civil sector to join forces. I would also like to ask the Member for his support in this. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-11-21-77	I thank the Secretary of State for her reply. I'll ask Congressman if he'll take the answer.
u2022-11-21-78	I can't accept the answer. There were wonderful gems in that answer. Maybe my favorite thing is that there wouldn't be energy if the opposition got to the government. I think it's a little against the laws of physics, maybe. But if we look at the sanctions policy itself, let's get to the bottom of what has happened in the energy market in recent years. The European stock market liberalisation that the Commission has done and what you guys are always missing, which, by the way, if anything could be attacked, is what should be the one that raised the energy prices last November. If you look at the exchange rate of the Dutch gas exchange, regardless of how the sanctions have changed, it jumps up and then jumps off like this. [[He's showing it with his hands.]] So if it were up to the sanctions to determine the current price of energy in the world, this thing would not be fluctuating. Several factors contribute to this. By the way, I've never opposed a reduction in rent, so you won't find a sentence like that from me, so maybe it's a legitimate question. After all, my question is: can you promise to solve this problem? Because that was my question, and I think a responsible government should be able to answer that question. [[A round of applause from the dialogue benches.]]
u2022-11-21-79	Thank you. Dear Parliament, From what I understand, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, István Szabadi, representative of Mi Hazank, submitted an interpellation to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade:. What is the truth about the purchase of strategic natural gas supplies? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-11-21-80	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear House, Before the elections, the Prime Minister promised the Hungarian families that he would be able to protect the reduction of the rent with the help of cheap Russian gas, the conditions of which were guaranteed by a long-term agreement with the Russians on the transport of 4.5 billion cubic meters of gas per year last October. In July, it decided to limit the reduction of the rent and, at the end of October, it was forced to recognise that the price of the gas contract with the Russians was adapted to the prices of the European stock exchange, namely the Dutch TTF gas exchange, and blamed Brussels for the fact that it was not possible to conclude a fixed price contract with the Russians. At a joint press conference with Russian President Vladimir Putin on 1 February, Prime Minister also stated that they were very close to the agreement to increase the annual guaranteed Russian gas in Hungary by one billion cubic metres. [[15.50]] Three days later, on Kossuth Radio, he said about the purchase of an additional 1 billion cubic meters of gas, and I quote: â almost reached the agreement, the Minister of Foreign Affairs still has to run a round or two. This agreement was certainly not concluded in February, because the energy emergency measures announced on 13 July included the purchase of 700 million cubic metres of additional gas, and according to the data of the Energy Office, gas storage facilities had half as much gas as in the previous years, which is why it was incomprehensible why 500 million cubic metres of gas were sold to Serbia. The listings of the Dutch TTF began to rise steeply from June and peaked in August when the gas was to be paid EUR 340 per megawatt hour. In addition, on 23 June the gas deal in Brussels required Member States to upload gas storage to at least 35% of the average gas consumption of the previous five years by 1 October, which also increased demand for gas and prices. The establishment of a special stock of natural gas is set out in Article 260/2022. [[CHAPTER VII 21.]] Government decree No. 700 million cubic metres of gas cost approximately HUF 740 billion per cubic metre, which means that the purchase of the product was financed from EUR 1.85 billion of loans. I would like to ask your respectable answer on why, in February, they did not agree on the purchase of an additional 1 billion cubic metres of gas, and why they waited for the purchase of a strategic gas supply until the entry into storage period when prices were known to be high. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-11-21-81	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Péter András Sztáray responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2022-11-21-82	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to say that with the signing of the Hungarian-Russian long-term gas procurement contract in September last year, we have established the basis for Hungary's stable long-term supply, both with better conditions than the previous long-term contract and short-term market contracts. We also stressed that, because of our infrastructure heritage, fixed-line natural gas remains a crucial source of supply in our country as well as in other countries in the region. Another important aspect is that, over the past 12 years, the government has done a great deal to diversify, both in terms of purchasing routes and in terms of resources. We've built the interconnectors six out of seven neighbors. It is not up to us that the necessary infrastructure has not been built beyond our borders, or certain investment decisions have not been made, such as the Neptune gas field in Romania. As a result of the Russian-Ukrainian war since February and the sanctions imposed in response, energy prices have skyrocketed, with an increase of about ten times over the summer compared to the same period of 21. All of this is accompanied by transport capacity constraints, for example, due to the North Stream incident. The challenge for many European countries was to fill storage for natural gas for the next winter season. In most European countries there is less storage capacity than in Hungary, which means that Hungary has one of the largest storage capacity in proportion to consumption. Thanks to the development of gas infrastructure in the last decade, Hungary has more than 6 billion cubic metres of storage capacity. Our annual use of natural gas is around 10 billion cubic metres, as is known. With more than 5.5 billion cubic meters of stored natural gas, storage capacity reached 87 percent in November, covering almost 55 percent of the total annual consumption. At the same time, the EU average is less than 30 per cent. This is due to the long-term gas supply contract and additional resources. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade shall continuously monitor and analyse the situation and conditions affecting European and regional security of supply. The government makes decisions in order to ensure the supply of natural gas to the Hungarian population and industry in all circumstances. This is why negotiations were opened earlier on the acquisition of additional resources before the Russian-Ukrainian war, and that is why, at the 6 July meeting, the government decided to authorise the state gas dealer and the Hungarian Coal Hydrogen Stock Exchange to purchase gas in addition to the existing long-term contracts. The most important goal of the government is always, and especially in these extraordinary times, the energy and energy crisis, in times of war, to ensure the country's energy supply, to protect Hungarian society, and to prevent the Hungarian people from paying the price of the war. The government buys natural gas then and from those who have the resources at the right price and who are able to deliver the necessary quantity of natural gas to our country. Together, the long-term contract, the additional quantity of natural gas and the constantly coming of imported natural gas have created the winter security of our country. The government has done everything in its power over the last few months and weeks. We will also represent an energy policy in the period ahead so that the security of the country's energy supply is at no risk. Please accept the answer. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-21-83	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2022-11-21-84	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I cannot accept its reply because the purchase of strategic natural gas stocks at spot prices has serious consequences for public finances, because domestic banks have lent loans to the transaction, which has increased the general government deficit and public debt, and therefore the deficit target in 2022 had to be adjusted from 4.9 percent to 6.1 percent. On the other hand, there will be serious consequences, and there may be, if they do not reduce retail market prices or at least increase the average consumption on the basis of distorted data, so I would also ask my fellow Members and Secretary of State that it is still not too late to change the average consumption rate of too low, that is to say, to raise the budget of the nearly or almost 1.5 million Hungarians whose family home is unconventional and not to fall into serious danger. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-11-21-85	Thank you. From what I understand, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I would like to inform you that a decision will be taken in accordance with our agreed agenda on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, a representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. With 50 percent food inflation, when will teachers and social workers receive a wage increase? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-11-21-86	Dear House, Dear Parliament, Mihály Varga proudly said a week ago that according to the European Commission, the growth of the Hungarian economy will be 5.5 percent this year. Three weeks earlier, at the Business Forum organised by the American-Hungarian Chamber of Commerce, he said that according to their own calculations, growth would be 4.5 percent. With both communications, he wanted to signal to the economic world and investors that the Hungarian economy was sound and healthy, well-being, the nice investors should calm down. Only the fact is that the Minister of Finance Mihály Varga was not commissioned by investors, but should not be reassured by them, but by Hungarian taxpayers. And they, unlike the supposedly thriving economy, are suffering a huge 20-25 percent real income loss due to the runaway inflation; in particular, civil servants, who find it hard enough to follow Viktor Orbán's cynical advice that if their energy bill goes up, they should earn more. How, if the government doesn't raise their salary? So the Hungarian economy is growing by 4-5 percent, and inflation is 20-22 percent higher than planned. As a consequence, the budget accumulates an enormous extra profit of thousands of billion HUF. As we also know from Mihály Varga, until the end of September this year, only 30 percent more of the VAT, 1170 billion HUF, came in in nine months than last year, while the increase was only 4-5 percent. So 80-85 percent of this is inflation extraprofit. If the situation is similar to that of the other tax groups, the budget could be an extra profit of up to HUF 3000-4000 billion per year. Therefore, the question rightly arises: why does the government not turn this extra profit back on those who are being harmed, at least on those for whom it is responsible, on its own workers, on the maintenance of public services? [[16.00]] The answer is, however, that this government has neoliberal principles and, in fact, represents only large profits, multinational corporations and rich people. Therefore, it wants to charge the price of breaking inflation in full to those living on the payroll, which has been admitted by several government actors when they talk about not raising wages. However, the state has a dog's duty to immediately increase the wages of social workers, teachers, municipal workers and other public service workers from the thousands of billion-dollar extraprofits, at least with the rate of inflation, but rather with the 12-year-old wage arrangement, creating a single, much higher wage table. If they were able to raise their own salary, maybe they could do that, and not point fingers at the EU, there is the necessary source of this in the inflation extraprofit. So I ask Minister: do you implement long-term wage arrangements in the public sector, creating a single pay table, guaranteeing at least 50 percent higher wages and continuous wage development, or do you continue to have the ability to increase your own salary? I look forward to your reply.
u2022-11-21-87	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2022-11-21-88	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, As you know, any revenue that goes into the budget as a surplus goes straight to the Rehabilitation Fund and the Defence Fund, precisely so that we can protect the cost reduction. Every Hungarian family up to an average consumption of HUF 181 000 will be helped by the reduction of the rent so that they do not have to pay the real market prices, but the market prices in 2013 can fuel people or use electricity at minus 25 per cent. But what does the LMP do in the meantime, honourable Member? Let us look at your amendments to the budget. What have you actually submitted? A 3.5-fold increase, in Hungarian, would have increased the price of food with these product fees, worth HUF 150 billion. But not only here, but also out of VAT revenue, you have proposed 250 billion extra in your own amendment proposals, which would also have taken from people, and the price of food, which has reduced VAT, would have been increased by you, and would have counted 250 billion forints plus VAT. But they didn't get stuck here because you would have introduced a new burden on the people with the rent: they would have introduced a HUF 300 billion tax on wealth. It's not enough for people to have gas bills, it's not enough for people to have electricity bills, it's even an extra tax, and after their assets, their apartment would have been charged with a property tax. But to create even more difficult situations in such a difficult situation, so that people don't even feel safe at work, you would have raised corporate tax revenue by HUF 450 billion. Forints 450 billion would have been charged to Hungarian employers, which they might have managed in many cases, honourable Member, by removing jobs where appropriate. So you would have raised the price of food further, imposed additional burdens on property owners and even put jobs at risk. War is not enough, sanctions in Brussels are not enough, it is not enough that inflation is record high in almost every country in Europe and price increases have never been seen, and you would have made the situation of the Hungarian people even worse with these tax proposals. As regards the government's economic measures and the country's GDP growth, honourable Member, here the third quarter figures are indeed compared to the same period of the previous year, we can see that Hungary was preceded only by Cyprus, Portugal, Romania and Poland, and we have brought 4.1 percent growth, this is the economic policy you have been saying for 12 years that it will lead to a chasm and collapse within six months. Well, this has now brought the fifth best result from the EU, 4.1 percent, on the other hand, the EU average is 2.4 percent, and there are countries that are already down, but a lot of people are moving towards zero. Mr President, this shows the difference between your proposals and our performance, which is now recognised by Eurostat. Moreover, you did not support the fact that we wanted to introduce a credit moratorium, they said it was a communist thing, so they said on the price stop, so they said on the petrol price cap, the minimum wage increase, the family tax refund was all not supported here in Parliament by the left because they said that the minimum wage increase was too much for businesses, that the family tax refund was also not supported at the beginning of this year. Honourable Congressman, In fact, what was a surplus, we tried to provide people with an increase in wages at the beginning of this year, which is why it was 10 percent for teachers, 20 percent for social workers, 21 percent for nurses as well, so there was a increase in the wages of teachers as well as a raise in medical wages, and the increase in medical wages increases 2 to 2.5 times the wages of doctors last year, this year and next year. We regret that we are now turning a large part of this into a penalty premium. That is why we say that there should be peace as soon as possible, that sanctions should end, and that again we can devote these resources not to a penalty premium, but to a salary increase. Thank you very much.
u2022-11-21-89	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I ask the congressman, he accepts the answer. You have the floor.
u2022-11-21-90	Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The fact is that I cannot accept the answer and not only because it was full of false allegations, but I think that it did not answer the basic question: will it raise wages, when and to what extent? What you're saying, I can explain perfectly, is there, with 3 percent inflation planned for this year's budget, so I don't think there's much to explain where the extra income is here, which, by the way, we were right to expect, if not to this extent, but at the time of the budget negotiations. The property tax sounds very loud from your mouth, but the details are the truth. We were going to spend taxes on billion-dollar assets, and I think we've had a lot of debate about how multinational companies are not taking their share of public burdens. So I can still maintain our position that we should raise it. I think it's on the payroll of the executives, it's also on the salaries of the civil servants. Thank you very much.
u2022-11-21-91	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman did not accept the Deputy Minister's reply. In accordance with our adopted agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Kristóf Szatmáry, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Economic Development:, How does the interest rate stop introduced by the Government help strengthen Hungarian businesses? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-11-21-92	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, We know that the war and the misguided sanctions policy have caused Europe to suffer. Energy prices are out of control, and inflation is at the heights we've seen in a long time. The Hungarian population can receive significant help from the government to maintain the reduction of the rent to the average consumption, but what about businesses? Unfortunately, they also suffer from the situation, the costs of energy, supply and transport for entrepreneurs have increased, and in inflation the loans have also increased significantly. Fortunately, the Hungarian government is committed to curbing inflation, avoiding recession and strengthening businesses, which is why it has been decided to extend the interest rate-stop for non-state-supported HUF-based small and medium-sized loans beyond the retail interest stop. Thanks to the measures, the business interest rate stop results in a total reduction of HUF 80 billion in domestic businesses. The Széchenyi Card program will continue next year, which will also provide positive credit products for businesses, but it will be a great help that the government will continue again this year, to say the best of all: it will maintain the tax reductions decided last year, which will reduce employers' taxes by around HUF 600 billion. While these tax burdens have increased in most EU countries, Hungary's biggest decline has been compared to last year. The national government's actions in these difficult times are also sharply opposed, separated from the failed economic policy of previous left-wing governments. And I would really just like to remind you of the years when the left considered domestic small and medium-sized enterprises merely as milk cows or simply as potential criminals. And the message of Ferenc Gyurcsány, which said that whoever does not, can be left here. [[16.10]] Fortunately, Fidesz and the national government do not think that way, for us small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary, which are also often family businesses, are the backbone of the domestic economy. Their success is also the success of the country, which is why we have to do everything together to ensure that domestic businesses survive the difficult time ahead of us, and to help the development that they are launching. In view of this, I would like to ask the honourable Secretary of State, as the biggest problem remains sanctioned inflation, how the government helps Hungarian businesses with the interest rate-stop which has already been introduced. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-11-21-93	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary János Fónagy responds to the interpellation. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2022-11-21-94	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, My dear fellow Member, As a result of the war in the neighbourhood and the erroneous sanctions imposed on it, energy and inflationary crises have developed in Europe, procurement and transport costs have skyrocketed, energy and labour costs are increasing, and interest rates on loans have also increased dramatically. The Hungarian government has done everything in its power to ensure that Hungarian people and not Hungarian businesses do not pay the price of the war and Brussels' unthinkable sanctions, the penalty price. In the past, the government has taken a number of measures to help Hungarian families: it has maintained the reduction of the rent to the average consumption, saving families an average of HUF 181 thousand a month, advertising a price stop for the most basic food, fuel, finally introducing the interest rate stop, and drawing up an 11-point action plan. At the request of the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the National Association of Entrepreneurs, the government extended the interest rate stop to the loans of small and medium-sized enterprises, while providing support to compensate for the operating cost increase of energy intensive manufacturing small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as to investments in energy efficiency, extending the Széchenyi card's credit programme and promoting a factory-saving programme. The extension of the interest rate stop to companies aims at curbing inflation, avoiding recession and strengthening businesses. The interest rate stop for the non-State-funded, variable rate, HUF-based loans of companies was introduced from 15 November and will apply until 30 June 2023. According to the government's decision, the interest rate on which the loans of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises concerned are based must not be higher than the interchange rate converted to 28 June 2022, the rate of the three-month BUBOR, i.e. 7,77 per cent. The measure concerns some HUF 2000 billion of loans and 60,000 businesses, so by the middle of next year small and medium-sized enterprises can save some HUF 80 billion in total; this means HUF 1.5-2 million per company. The costs of the measure are borne by the banks, which we consider to be manageable for them, as rising interest rates also represent extra profit for them. The government's goal is to get us out of this crisis stronger than we agreed to. Last time we did this, we did it in the case of a coronal virus outbreak. Instead of EU looming and left-wing austerity and unemployment policy, the government's aim is to continue to catch up with the Hungarian economy, to avoid recession and to continue to achieve growth above the EU average by 2-3 percent. An important objective is the preservation of Hungarian jobs and the maintenance of the family support system, i.e. demographic targets. By the end of next year, a return to single-digit inflation is also essential to bring the economy back to normal. To this end, we ask for the support of my fellow Members and the Hungarian Parliament. Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-11-21-95	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2022-11-21-96	Thank you very much for the floor. I accept the answer, just because the government seems to be monitoring developments, and in addition to what was said here by the Secretary of State, just last week he announced an action plan for another sector, tourism and hospitality, which is trying to help domestic hosts and shelterers in a difficult situation by releasing the contribution to the development of tourism and delaying the introduction of certain administrative protocols. So, clearly, the government is able to react continuously. I think that a national minimum could be created for domestic businesses. Indeed, the main aim is to ensure sanctions, the rapid availability of EU funds for businesses and the creation of energy security. In this, the government can continue to count on the Fidesz fraction's support. Thank you very much for the answer, once again, I accept. [[Dr. János Fónagy: Thank you very much. Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-11-21-97	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman, you have accepted the answer. Dear Parliament, Attila Móring József, representative of KDNP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. When does the European Union intend to change its migration policy? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-11-21-98	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In the first ten months of the year, some 276 thousand illegal border crossings were reported at the external borders of the European Union. Migration pressure is increasing at the southern borders of Europe, and 230,000 people have tried to get into Hungary this year, while 120,000 people have tried to get into Hungary all year round last year. The emergence of migrants poses a threat to Europe's public security and public health situation. Border protection is a European interest. He who defends the European border protects the people of Europe. If we fail to protect the European Union's external borders, there will be internal borders again and there will be negative economic consequences. The greatest migratory pressure remains on the Western Balkans. This year's successful entry shows a significant increase compared to the same period last year. The figures of the Hungarian police, which are well above Frontex's, as they also account for the experiments, also indicate the worsening of the situation. Hungary, together with Austria and Serbia, is trying to combat the migration flows. The aim is to push the line of defense, which in practice means to increase the security of the Serbian-North Macedonian border. The leaders of the European Union are not idle either. EU decision-makers would persuade Serbia to pursue a visa policy in line with the European Union, which will only keep citizens of the issuing countries from flying which have visa waiver agreements with our southern neighbours. There is almost no way that a reassuring solution can be found at the December Home Secretary's negotiating table seeking a pan-European solution. Rather, it is expected that the majority of the Member States of the European Union will once again turn towards quota, which is bad news for those countries which would be reluctant to adopt any distribution mechanism. There is therefore far from unity in the EU. Migration pressure is increasing at the southern border, and the Islamic State is already trying to take advantage of the situation. Due to effective border protection, migrants are being repelled at the Hungarian border and therefore the border settlements are becoming unlivable. Meanwhile, gangs of smugglers are fighting for the territory. The solution would continue to be to break up the European Union's failed migration policy, which calls for immigration. Meanwhile, Hungary is increasing the effectiveness of border protection, the strengthening of border fences is taking place, and more than a thousand border hunters are already in service for winter. The costs of Hungarian border protection exceed HUF 600 billion, and the European Union has not provided adequate financial assistance even though Hungary is also protecting the external borders of the European Union. Last week there was an action movie-like chase at the border of Budapest, and there were fugitives shooting at policemen. The unsubs were captured, and fortunately no injuries occurred. It was also last week that in a Serbian smuggler's car, 13 illegal migrants claiming to be Afghan citizens met two vehicles in a railway passage at Hegyeshalom. Before the police stopped the car, at a railway passage, he prevented a series of vehicles which had been blocked by a rail signal. [[16.20]] As we can see, more and more people do not obey policemen. [[Gergely Harvester: Time!]] They start fleeing, causing a serious, more than once fatal accident. [[Gergely Harvestó: One more minute, but let him speak...]] I therefore ask the honourable Secretary of State when the European Union intends to change its migration policy at last. Thank you very much, and I'm sorry for the delay. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. László Varju: They don't shrink here...]]
u2022-11-21-99	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2022-11-21-100	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We can see that not only does Brussels not want to change its pro-migration position, but it also strengthens it from time to time. The Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats, a European left-wing party including Hungarian left-wing parties, has also sent a letter to the President and Vice-President of the European Commission, in which they said that the issue of humanitarian visas should be accelerated in the context of migration, the establishment of humanitarian corridors should also be accelerated and family reunification should be given priority. You know, when I was in Luxembourg a few weeks ago, home ministers told me how they are using these opportunities in some countries now, because those who receive a humanitarian visa realize that they are going back to their own country and then they are coming back to Europe, and if they have a humanitarian visa, they would not be able to return because they would be persecuted in their own country. On the other hand, it has been said that the inhumane way for the organisers of illegal migration to often send an unaccompanied minor to Europe, on a number of thousands of different countries, who, of course, may be a minor at the age of 17.5, and as soon as he receives a residence title in an accelerated procedure, all his relatives will check in at the moment and suddenly become five or six or seven people. So we can always see that Brussels is always coming up with new proposals to make illegal migration more planned, institutionalise and distribute irregular migrants within Europe. This is the end of all the proposals and they do not seem to want to put this down, and it is clear that speeding up illegal migration is not the safe future for Europe. The pressure is enormous, you said so yourself. We can say that there have now been more than 240 thousand attempts to cross the Hungarian southern border this year. This means that in days, there will be twice as many experiments this year as there was last year, and we are far from the end of the year. 2500 smugglers are currently sitting in Hungarian prisons, who are being caught, who are becoming more aggressive. You said, you implied, on the M5 highway, that police were shot at; at the end of October, it happened that they were shot at the police, when the police approached them, when they were sprayed with tear gas, so they didn't flee, but attacked the police. We can clearly see that if the European Union does not follow what Hungary is following as a road, so if it does not close its external borders, the internal borders will be rebuilt because we can see how new internal border controls will be put in place temporarily, temporarily, but for an ever longer period of time, and the Union has been created so that there will be no internal borders. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] But if we do not stop migration at the external border, it will destroy this internal system of the Union. They are re-establishing internal borders because they can no longer handle them, in Austria or elsewhere, they can no longer handle the huge number of illegal migrants who have arrived. Therefore, they are trying internal border control so that they may be able to reduce the pressure. This is therefore vital for maintaining the Union's fundamental values and for internal free movement. And let me tell you another approach. When we stood before the Italian elections, the President of the European Commission said that if things went wrong, they would have the means to reverse Italian politics, as in Hungary and Poland. And we saw that the new right-wing Italian government had been formed and that it would not allow illegal migrants' ships to enter the Italian ports; they were immediately attacked. If they were thinking fundamentally democratically in Brussels, they would say that if the Italians were in favour of a position against immigration, then Brussels' position would also be shifted in this direction. But that is not what they say, but they say that we will want to force the Italians' national position to go back to the left-wing, pro-migration direction. They do not want to represent the European people, they do not respond that if Europeans expect other policies, they want to change their policies, they want to force them on them. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Migration from Brussels to all countries is completely undemocratic. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-11-21-101	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Deputy Minister's reply.
u2022-11-21-102	Thank you very much. I accept the answer by asking the government to continue to stand by this consistent position that we have been representing since 2015 and by doing everything to ensure that the costs that have been incurred and are already over HUF 600 billion are paid by the European Union in some form, at least in part, to Hungary. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-11-21-103	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Deputy Minister's reply. Dear Parliament, Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:. They will also make Paks2's IT system as well as the title "KRÉTA?" By answering the interpellation, Prime Minister Péter Szijjártó appointed Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, who is competent and competent according to the subject. At the request of Minister Péter András Sztáray, State Secretary, he responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-11-21-104	Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Two weeks ago, we got a pretty juicy taste of the consequences of a corrupt government trusting a major IT development to buddies instead of experts. László Palkovics's good friend made the system mandatory in public education, you spent nearly 40 billion forints of public money on it to find out: the system can be easily hacked during the first hour of an OKJ hacker training course, and the data of students, teachers and schools can be stolen from it. In addition to the fact that this could never happen in a European democracy, since such a serious IT development could not be obtained by a buddy, and such a data protection incident would have very serious consequences, and the criminal consequences of this kind of waste of public money, and the news would now be about the progress of the investigation, who was taken on board, and who would have to answer to the fact that 40 billion forints of public money were thrown out of the window, and that, in addition, sensitive data could have been made public, the fact that this is no longer news in Hungary, and this is the worst. It's a normal Tuesday or Wednesday at your house: something was stolen again, and it's not working again. We see the same fidesz expertise, whether we talk about the exchange rate of the forint or the fact that the Russians were allowed into the State Department, and the hackers are free to operate within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs if they have already appointed the State Secretary of the State Department to answer, or just that they are rushing into an expensive, poor quality, and it seems that they will never make a Paks investment. You seem to be able to do that. The Orbán model is that moral depths must be hidden into intellectual gaps, so that we can argue that you destroy the country out of evil or stupidity. This time, they could have stolen the data of teachers and students because of you, but who knows what else will happen in the wake of similar developments in the country. How do you want to build a bridge, a railway passage or a nuclear power plant if your IT system for public education could be hacked from a Tamagochi? How would you like to do it, say, Paks II. If you couldn't put Pistike's computer system into a secure system of 40 billion, you'd have four threes, two fours, and you missed your grammar class? When will the hackers use their own medical records to blackmail the Hungarian people who have been stolen from your health information system or blackmail them with tax secrets because the NAV system is leaky? And finally, what other dangers does your inability to rule hold for this country? [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2022-11-21-105	Dear Parliament, State Secretary Péter András Sztáray responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2022-11-21-106	Thank you very much, Mr. President. With regard to the involvement of the Paks project, I will respond to the CCP, and I would like to state that this project is based on international requirements, that the two new blocks will be built on the basis of extremely strict safety standards and international standards, and this is in line with the recommendations and rules of the International Atomic Energy Agency. The nuclear power plant was also designed with a so-called physical protection plan, since the protection aspects should be very strict at the earliest possible stage of planning. [[16.30]] This includes the protection of so-called programmed systems. When drawing up the plan, experts took into account all relevant legislation, the guidelines of the National Atomic Energy Office, standards and international recommendations and good practices that guarantee the safe construction of the nuclear power plant. In the summer of 2021, OAH subsequently approved the prepared documentation and issued a physical protection certificate. The blocks are therefore also prepared for proper protection of IT systems and cyber attacks. To this end, independent systems shall be established to ensure that no interference with the operation of the power plant is possible from the outside. The same practice applies to the operating block of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. Finally, I would like to emphasise that the control technology of the new nuclear power plant is delivered by the French-German Framatome-Siemens consortium and the block control equipment is prepared. Highly prestigious Western suppliers are also expected to meet information security requirements rigorously. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-21-107	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask the congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2022-11-21-108	Dear House, We were witnesses in the Committee on Sustainable Development when they reported on the nuclear power plant project, and we witnessed here in Parliament that the head of the National Atomic Energy Office resigned, and then you appointed a reliable cadre to head the Atomic Energy Office instead of professionals. So, Mr. Secretary, I'm sorry, but if you're referring to the OAH licenses that went up after this change of leadership, then, to put it mildly, I'm uncertain. In addition, it was found that the installation permit was issued in such a way that the updated safety report was not yet available and was subsequently requested after the authorisation had already been granted. So I have to say, Mr State Secretary, that unfortunately we do not see any guarantee that Paks' security systems will be prepared at a higher level and in a more transparent way than this has happened with other IT investments, such as the CRETA, and it may not be worth talking about what the consequences will be when a nuclear power plant's security system becomes ITally vulnerable. So I can't accept your answer. [[Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2022-11-21-109	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I would like to inform you that, according to our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the interpellation negotiations, and we are now continuing our work with immediate questions. Dear Parliament, László Varju, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of Economic Development an immediate question: It's an address. Because of Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. János Fónagy was entitled to reply. I ask you to accept the response or to ask for the answer in person. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-11-21-110	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, I have repeatedly called for immediate assistance to the Tungsram Company, which, by the way, is located in my constituency in Újpesten, but it operates in many places in the country. The company was purchased in 2018, it was owned by GE before, but the new owner started a transformation, and although the result of the pandemic and the economic crisis resulted in a number of difficulties, yet, working as your strategic partner, the group was faced with an unsolvable task. The company asked for help, but it hit deaf ears. Your position in the case of the company's fall is, by amending the Code of Labour and the Social Law on the agenda, you have even made it more difficult in advance. Instead of helping, the company's largest creditor, Eximbank, submitted an inkword to the company's bank account. But if that wasn't enough, then the company requested bankruptcy protection, developed a recovery plan, but Eximbank didn't accept it. The company then negotiated with several investors, including a Swiss company experienced in crisis management, which would also provide capital for the company's debt settlement. However, Eximbank refused to negotiate with the Swiss partner and rejected Tungsram's new offer at a bankruptcy hearing, thus pushing it into liquidation and thus became inevitable. So I ask: why and by whose orders did they do so? Who's getting in the way of Tungsram? Who wants to get it for pennies so that it can flourish with the state aid that has been denied so far, even generously reconfirmed. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It is difficult, Mr State Secretary, to appreciate all this in a different way than the fact that you were not simply indifferent to the fate of the long-standing company, but destroyed through a state-owned bank. So I ask you to give me clear answers to my questions. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2022-11-21-111	Thank you, Congressman, I would like to inform you that your timeframe is two minutes. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2022-11-21-112	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The unfortunate story of Tungsram, its centuries-old history, I believe, is known to the majority of us. What is new in this matter is the activity of GE and the events that have occurred since then. The answer was also in your question, everyone acted as required by the relevant legislation in the relevant procedural order, and the institutions that you condemn have made the decisions that you have made in your business decision. As for your question, it is obvious, and you have acknowledged this, that, as far as labour issues relating to Tungsram's current situation are concerned, appropriate measures are being taken and taken. At present neither you nor I have any information on how the future fate of Tungsram affects the outcome of the unfortunate process you outlined. As has been the case so far, the assessment of Tungsram's economic situation, possible further economic activities or the consequences of the legislation have been and will continue to comply with these standards. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-21-113	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give you the floor in a one-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2022-11-21-114	Mr President, I also thank you very much for your patience, but I regret to say, Mr Secretary, that you did not answer the question of whose interest it is to eliminate Tungsram, because, while complying with the law, Eximbank had the opportunity to change this, but it did not change, and even pushed Tungsram into liquidation. That is why I think that this has been wrong; even because we have heard here in the last hour what kind of factory rescue program you have. As an example of this, I can bring it up as a support, as there is a car factory in the country that costs Hungary 120 billion dollars, i.e. 120 million forints per person for a thousand people. This rescue programme is not meant for people who are otherwise engaged in job preservation and rescue. I am deeply sorry and object to your actions. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2022-11-21-115	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have the right to a rejoinder, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2022-11-21-116	Thank you, Mr. President. I can repeat, honourable Member, what I have just said is that the state institutions and financial institutions acting in this case, including Exim, have acted in accordance with the law, have taken decisions against you in the separate business decisions of Exim. I respect your opinion, but I also ask you to respect the independent business decisions of an independent bank. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[16.40]]
u2022-11-21-117	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Vajda, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question:. It's an address. Due to the absence of the President of the National Bank of Hungary, President Barnabas Virág gave the right to reply, and this time I welcome him to the Parliament. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the President himself for an answer.
u2022-11-21-118	I'll take it.
u2022-11-21-119	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-11-21-120	Mr. Vice President, Under the Hungarian National Bank Act, the central bank's primary task is to achieve and maintain price stability. In addition, it is also for the National Bank to support the government's economic policy by the means available without compromising the achievement of the objective of price stability. Well, Mr Vice-President, in these tasks the MNB bled to death, failed to carry out its task or carried out its task badly, since on an annual basis, inflation was 21.9 percent in October. This is the third highest in the EU! In one year, inflation increased from 5 percent to 21.9 percent. But when you look at food, the price increase is even more brutal: it grew from 4 percent to 45 percent. In Hungary, the price of bread is 82.8 percent higher, more than double the number of people registered in other EU countries. And there is also the increase in overhead, for which prices have also increased very strongly. The fight to maintain price stability has therefore fallen badly on the MNB. And thanks to the government's economic policy, we have reached the front door of the recession. The performance of the economy decreased in the third quarter compared to the previous quarter. And we also see that in recent months, the exchange rate movement of the forint has no longer been affected by the central bank. Hungary's monetary policy has reacted late to accelerating inflation, so this year it has already made the biggest increase in the base rate compared to the neighbouring countries, yet the Hungarian currency has been most valued in the region. In doing so, the market stated that it considered the economic policy of the central bank and the government to be uncredited. On this basis, I ask Mr Vice-President how you have managed to bring this together. What explanation can the central bank offer for the price that has not been seen for many ten years, and why can't the central bank control it? And finally, do you think it was necessary, justified or moral to raise the salary of the central bank president by HUF 1.2 million a month? Did you ask for this raise? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2022-11-21-121	Thank you, Congressman. The time frame is still two minutes. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Vice President Barnabas Virág. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
u2022-11-21-122	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, First of all, allow me to clarify your list of central bank laws. There is financial stability between the two, i.e. between price stability and support for the Hungarian government's economic policy. I think that through this filter it is worth evaluating what is happening at the moment in Hungary in the Hungarian economy. I'd like to start with inflation. We all know that the main cause of inflation is war in the world and within it specifically in Europe. In European countries, two thirds of inflation is due to food price rises and energy price rises. Two-thirds! This is the case in Hungary, where this ratio is almost 60 percent. We see double-digit inflation in more than 50 countries around the world. If we evaluate on this basis, then the Fed has failed, the ECB has failed, and there have been very, very many other central banks that have failed, so if we accept the assessment that you have issued. Once again, I would like to emphasise that at the moment, war is the main cause of inflation. The Hungarian National Bank reacted as the first in Europe to the emerging high inflation environment in June 2021, since then it has made the biggest interest rate increases, precisely to restore price stability in the Hungarian economy as quickly as possible. One thought about financial stability: since 2020, we have been living in a world where there has been a public health crisis, a Crown Virus crisis, and then an extraordinary war situation in our neighbourhood. During this period, the Hungarian National Bank supported the participants of the Hungarian economy by HUF 11 000 billion, helping the Hungarian economy at a time when these extraordinary events took place. As a result, the Hungarian economy has successfully recovered from the coronal virus epidemic, and I think that we will also succeed in getting out of this war crisis medium, restoring our price stability. Thank you very much.
u2022-11-21-123	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, In return, I'll give the floor to the congressman in a minute. Here you go.
u2022-11-21-124	Mr. Vice President, You are either delirious or at least deluded, because you know perfectly well that the roots of today's two-digit inflation must not be sought in international circumstances, and certainly not in the geographical proximity of the tragic war in Ukraine. After all, in January 2020, before the outbreak, the consumer price index was 4.7 percent in Hungary, the highest among Member States and almost three times the EU average. Similarly, the continuous depreciation of the forint exchange rate was carried out in line with the intention of the government and the central bank until spring of this year. And since you didn't answer my question, I ask you once again: did you ask for this infinite salary increase? Why can't Matolcsy make it out of $5 million a month? Why don't you ask your boss? Do you and the head of the central bank deserve a raise after such a performance? Do they deserve the salary of 20 start-up teachers? Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2022-11-21-125	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The vice president will have a rejoinder in one minute. Here you go.
u2022-11-21-126	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Allow me to add more specific numbers to your data. Don't try to make a judgement based on one month's data. In the four years between the beginning of 2017 and the beginning of 2021, our average inflation was 3 percent. In Hungary, the inflation target is 3 percent. So for the first time in the last two decades, the Hungarian central bank has been able to achieve its inflation target in a unique way in Europe over these four years. So the other central banks couldn't do it. I think it is important to add this to the facts. This was followed from the beginning of 2020 by the extraordinary crisis management, which resulted in the support of the Hungarian economy by HUF 11 000 billion. I don't want to comment on the question of raising salaries. The amendment of the Central Bank Act is, as appropriate, initiated by the Government, decided by the Government, or voted for by Parliament. Thank you very much.
u2022-11-21-127	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, Dávid Bedő, Ferenc Gelencsér, Szabolcs Szabó and Márton Tompos, representatives of the Momentum, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question. It's an address. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the Head of the Momentum Group said in advance that he would ask for a personal reply, so that he will have to answer in the hour of the next immediate questions due to Mr. Prime Minister's absence. The next Member of the Momentum will now speak. Dear Parliament, Russian representative Anna of Momentum wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:. What does Fidesz do for the equality and security of Hungarian women, and when will the Istanbul Convention be ratified? It's an address. Minister Robert Répássy, State Secretary, was entitled to reply because of his absence. I ask you to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Minister for the answer personally.
u2022-11-21-128	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2022-11-21-129	Yeah. You have the floor.
u2022-11-21-130	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, This week is the World Day for the Elimination of Violence Against Women. On this occasion, first of all, I would like to welcome the representatives of women's rights organisations in the gallery. We are grateful for your work on the victims of violence against women every day. It has been exactly ten years since István Varga's Fidesz MEP became infamous. Here in this House, ten years ago, he literally said, "Maybe mothers should go back to raising children, have two or three or four children, and then there wouldn't be any domestic violence. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Instead of building a system to ensure equal opportunities for women in all areas of life, which ensures the prevention of violence and the protection of victims, after 12 years of government, we still have to read weekly on the news about a young woman, a wife, a mother, a grandmother, an elderly woman, in which corner of the country she was beaten to the death. (In the notary seat Dr. Lajos Szűcs Replaced by Dr. Winner Vinnai.) In the absence of reliable and systematic data, we need to rely on civilians and the European Union to get a clear picture of the subject. According to representative data from the Union Agency for Fundamental Rights, one in five women suffer physical or sexual violence in Hungary during their lifetime by their partners. At the moment, there are about 220,000 women in our country in a relationship where their partners abuse her, yet only 5 thousand cases appear in police statistics. Specific cases, such as the case of Erika Renner and Bernadett Orosz, prove that the Hungarian institutional system is far from prepared for professional and sensitive assistance to victims, which will prolong their suffering and their physical and mental recovery for years. [[16.50]] Meanwhile, Judit Varga called the Istanbul Convention a political hysterical and stated that women are very well in Hungary, they do not have to choose between family and work, and the government acts hard. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] even against domestic violence. My questions to you, therefore, are as follows. If their claim were true, how could the rate of criminal proceedings be so low? [[The president's ringing again.]] How can they act effectively against domestic violence if there is no official, systematic statistical data collection on such cases to date? What does the Fidesz government do for the equality and security of Hungarian women, and when will the Istanbul Convention finally be ratified? I look forward to your answers. [[Applause in the floors of Momentum and Dialogue.]]
u2022-11-21-131	Congresswoman! Two minutes to speaking time. Next time, please locate me. It's not that hard. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Répássy Róbert, Secretary of State, who will answer the immediate question.
u2022-11-21-132	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I'm glad you remember the past as well as we remember that your ally, Ferenc Gyurcsány, was discussing the replacement of old-age wives when he was Prime Minister. [[Intercoms in the benches of Momentum.]] Dear House, First of all, I would like to say that Hungary pays particular attention to the protection of families, children and women, as provided for in the Fundamental Law. Article 15 of the Fundamental Law In accordance with Article 2 (5) of the Treaty, Hungary protects families, children, women, the elderly and people with disabilities through specific measures. Our national legal order contains a number of legal safeguards, and the government is taking significant steps to support the victims. The government believes that the effectiveness of action against violence and violence against women can be measured not in ratifying conventions but in implementing effective measures. The Hungarian government considers effective action against all forms of violence against women to be one of the most important priorities, and this goal is constantly reflected and enforced in the government's legislative aspirations. I would like to point out that a review table has been published on the website of the judicial portfolio, drawn up on the basis of the Istanbul Convention on the fight against and prevention of violence and violence against women, and that it presents in detail the Hungarian legal instruments for protecting women and combating violence against relationships. It is clear from that table that the provisions of the Istanbul Convention which provide for a legislative task are in line with the Hungarian legal system, so our national law provides the necessary legal guarantees. Please accept my answer.
u2022-11-21-133	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. In return, I will give the floor to the congresswoman in a one-minute time frame.
u2022-11-21-134	Mr State Secretary, if these measures were worth anything, I think we can agree that a woman and a child would not die every week as a result of domestic violence, and then Renner Erika, Russian Bernadett and many other women who have experienced horrors would not have had to suffer so much. We are not really interested in excuses before 2010 or any other excuses. My question is, when will there finally be a reliable and detailed database, when will there be regular, understanding and sensitive preparation of the authorities concerned, when will there be a sector-wide signalling system, and when will the legislative amendments called for by civilians finally come into force. However, for equal opportunities for women, it is also necessary for the Prime Minister not to consider the payment of his wife's bills as a matter of business, and for Fidesz politicians not to hide behind their wives' skirts and explain their certificates when they are doing cocaine or whoring. [[Sic!]] I'll give them to you. Thank you very much. [[The president's ringing the bell. Applause in the benches of Momentum.]]
u2022-11-21-135	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder.
u2022-11-21-136	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and What I don't know is that the word you used is the dignity of the Parliament, but it's not up to me to decide, and the Speaker will decide, I suppose. [[Anna of Russia: Alas, alas! Intercoms in the benches of Momentum.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It should be pointed out that victim assistance is one of the most important priorities of the government, in which the Ministry of Justice declared 2020 the year of victim support, with particular attention to the following objectives: more comprehensive and targeted assistance for victims, close cooperation with various church and other non-governmental organisations, launching a national media campaign to better achieve victims, contributing to more effective prevention of victimisation, increasing the protection of families, children and women, including victims. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and According to the government's objective, we'll be opening a victim support centre in every county seat by 2025. Already more than half of the county seats have such a victim support centre, where there is a family presence [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] help those in need, victims, in connection with all kinds of crimes. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-11-21-137	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. To Congresswoman, it's just that style is human. Dear Parliament, Brenner Koloman, László György Lukács and Dániel Z. Kárpát, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question. It's an address. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the leader of the Jobbik faction said in advance that he would ask for a personal reply, so that the Prime Minister will have to answer in the hour of the next immediate questions due to his absence. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: why are Hungarian entrepreneurs and citizens being damaged instead of real crisis management? It's an address. Due to the absence of Prime Minister Balázs Orbán, the political director of the Prime Minister, was entitled to reply. In view of the fact that Jobbik's group leader said in advance that the Member who asked the question would accept the alternate responder, the Member should be given the floor on the condition of the immediate question. Here you go.
u2022-11-21-138	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to confront Mr Political Director with two specific pro-government promises that have undoubtedly been said and respond to a crisis and which, I believe, is accountable. On the one hand, with regard to petrol stations, the number of wells which, on the grounds of security of supply, does not receive the necessary care on the part of MOL, not for a week or two, but for an unlimited period of time, is now at the same time a strong government intention was to maintain small gas stations. In the second quarter, the amount of aid that can be attributed has arrived, and in the third quarter there is no specific information. So the question is, if there has been such a pro-government promise before and at a very high level, how, how and in what form it is expected to be observed and enforced. What is quite brutal is that, as a result of this situation, small shops are also in a very, very difficult situation. I would like to remind you that while in the mid-1990s there were 160,000 shops in the country, the number of them later fell to 110,000 and now to less than 100,000, and we also see that at the same time multinational companies are growing, of course, but the Hungarian small shop, small business operator, who carries the national economy on its back, who provides two thirds of the jobs as small entrepreneurs in this country, does not receive the right support. There was a promise that a tender would be launched by mid-December, which will support the affected small shops in a budget of HUF 8 billion next year, only in settlements below a certain population. My question is quite clear: how many convenience stores, how many small businesses are planned to help out from this very, very modest, very, very limited framework? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2022-11-21-139	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Balázs Orbán, the political director of the Prime Minister.
u2022-11-21-140	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, With regard to his first question on fuel supply: on the one hand, we maintain the policy of pricestops, which means the cheapest fuel prices for the Hungarian population throughout Europe, but it is true that the failed sanctions policy and war cause very serious, serious problems across Europe. Our main intention is to ensure safe fuel supply while keeping prices low. Therefore, the Hungarian oil company has also taken these unfortunately restrictive decisions in such a way that fuel supplies remain evenly secure throughout the country. This is the most important priority that has to be ahead of everything else. If it were up to the left, they'd have shut off the oil lines long ago, and they wouldn't have supported the price stops. As far as the issue of support for small gas stations is concerned, I can inform you there that there was indeed government help thanks you for recognising this, of course, their situation, when the price stop policy changed before the third quarter, has become much easier in a business sense, which has been changed again by the current situation. [[17.00]] So now we need to rethink how, in what way, in what way and through what means the government can support them, but openness and government will remain unchanged on our part. With regard to the second part of your question, allow me to express my disagreement. It is very important for Hungary's Government to help the small and medium-sized entrepreneurial population in the event of the energy crisis and the difficult economic situation. I will answer your question in the second period at my disposal. Thank you very much.
u2022-11-21-141	Thank you very much, Director, for your reply. Dear Parliament, In return, I will give the floor to the Member and thank you for your cooperation. The meeting will be handed over to Vice President Sándor Lezsák. (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.)
u2022-11-21-142	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Director, You are in a lucky position to continue talking about the left, since you are asked by a right-wing, fundamentally conservative, representative, who is particularly interested in supporting families, Hungarian small businesses, so the Hungarian institutions that keep our nation and carry them on their backs. That is why I am expressing my dissatisfaction that you are starting to think about the support of the small businesses concerned after the strangely reversed situation. I'm asking you to come up with something in a matter of days. As our proposal for a petrol cap, my fellow Member, Róbert Dudás, was made within a week, so we demand that they do so now. As regards small shops, I strongly urge you to put a zero behind the 8 billion-dollar framework, at least, to extend it to all small shops, small businesses and small businesses in all settlements, and to help preserve jobs, not only for multi-enterprises, multi-enterprises, but also for Hungarian businesses. This is vital for the maintenance of families.
u2022-11-21-143	Thank you very much, Congressman. I salute my fellow Members. In return, I give the floor to the Prime Minister's political director.
u2022-11-21-144	Good afternoon, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much for the floor. Let me add a little tension to the system: you may be a conservative representative, but you are sitting here in Parliament from the 9th place on the parliamentary list of Ferenc Gyurcsány. So it hurts, but the facts are still facts. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: We should answer!]] Now, in the previous section, your question about fuel supply has been answered. Please don't bring that question to me. Hungary's Government has announced a number of programmes to support small and medium-sized enterprises, and we would like to continue to provide them and even continue to expand them. The first is: we provide energy support to energy intensive small and medium-sized enterprises, we can help 9 thousand businesses. Entrepreneurial interest rate stop: extended from 15 November. This results in a HUF 80 billion reduction in the burden. We have extended the Széchenyi Card loan program, launched a factory rescue program, encouraged the banks to issue loans, helped thousands of village shops through the latest application of the Hungarian village programme, and launched a tourist action plan to help small businesses. Please be a partner in bringing these measures to business, and we will be able to expand them further in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-11-21-145	Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What is going on? It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr. Balázs Orbán, the political director of the Prime Minister, was entitled to respond. In view of the fact that the leader of the Dialogue did not make a preliminary statement on the personal response request, it should therefore be considered, on the basis of the decision-making house rule, that the questioning representative does not ask for a personal reply, and therefore it is for Mr Bence Tordai to take the floor.
u2022-11-21-146	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Political Director, In my previous immediate question, we learned from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári that the government is doing virtually nothing to prevent mass frost deaths due to the current energy crisis. We have been asking you for years that it is acceptable for you that hundreds of people in Hungary lose their lives every year because of cold weather. Practically speaking, the action shows that this is perfectly all right for you, despite the fact that Viktor Orbán said very proudly that we will not freeze here, what his government has done. Now, I would ask what the government will do this winter, when, due to the energy crisis, those who do not freeze will not freeze, a significant part of it will not freeze because it will switch to cheap fuel, fuel, solid fuel, and more and more to fuel harmful but combustible materials. In Hungary, the number of people who lose their lives as a result of air pollution is already around 13 thousand a year, and for more than ten years there has been infringement proceedings in the EU against the Hungarian government because they are not making any meaningful progress in this matter. Last February, the European Court of Justice also condemned you for continuing to allow air pollution to soar at such amazing heights, which, on average, takes ten years from these people's lives through cardiovascular, respiratory and cancer diseases, or, if you understand it better, causes an economic damage of 600,000 forints per Hungarian person. My question, Mr political director, is that you are doing something to reduce air pollution in the interests of reducing air pollution and to curb the expected brutally rising air pollution data. I look forward to your reply. [[Applause from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2022-11-21-147	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Balázs Orbán, the political director of the Prime Minister.
u2022-11-21-148	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, He used a very interesting reasoning system, because you pretended that there was no contradiction in two things, otherwise partly contradictory to each other. In this energy crisis and in this very difficult economic situation that is affecting all the countries of Europe, it is very important what government support is given to those in need, the most vulnerable social groups. I believe that Hungary has no reason to be ashamed in this context, but the government is working to provide further support. (In the notary seat, Dezső the Believer Replaced by Sándor Szabó.) But allow me to support what I have to say with one or two data, on the one hand, because in the period before the crisis, millions of people have been reduced in the number of those who have a significant difficulty in an unexpected expenditure. The proportion of people at risk of poverty decreased by 1.2 million. This is one of the best results in Europe. This is important because, obviously, those who live in a better financial situation may find it easier to cope with this difficult situation. But we also help with targeted measures. The first and most important is the reduction of the rent, which you and your left-wing allies are constantly attacking. This really means that every Hungarian family will receive HUF 181 000 of support from the Hungarian budget to cover the increased overhead costs. I know this sounds simplistic, but what we are talking about here is that if this support was not given by the Hungarian budget, families would have to farm and a terrible social situation would arise. This amount, by the way, is the highest in European comparison, income and wealth, and we are also considering other subsidies. We believe that the most important thing in this situation is that the lowest social groups at the lowest level receive special assistance. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-11-21-149	Thank you very much. Congressman Bence of Tordai has the right to a one-minute rejoinder.
u2022-11-21-150	Director, you've spoiled the verb, not a parolee, not a terrible social situation, but you've come forward, you've already come forward, you've ruined the verb time. The thing is, your reduction of the rent is the least of the people who need it the most. As you finally admitted, specific measures would be needed. That's what you're doing nothing about. People heat with water trees, heat with treated trees, heat with garbage, plastic, clothing, rags, everything that is burnable, and you have not come up with any answers to this phenomenon. They still don't seem to have any idea how to stop the devastating air pollution, which, I'm telling you, takes the lives of over ten thousand people every year. Yeah, the worse it gets, the more you need to be careful not only to have something to heat, but also to heat, and not to take other people's lives. [[Applause from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2022-11-21-151	Thank you very much, Congressman Bence of Tordai. The Director shall be entitled to a rejoinder. [[17.10]]
u2022-11-21-152	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, It is a very difficult situation, because I always feel uncomfortable being here in the House of Parliament, and we hear left-wing parties attacking the measure of reducing the rent. We always say again and again that this may not be the right way, perhaps we should support the government side, for example, in the negotiations in Brussels. There's another side to this: either we help the needy, or we're doing a green energy turnaround. You want both at the same time. I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is worth taking care of, because for the lowest social groups, if the green energy revolution, which is on the regulatory side of Brussels, despite the difficult situation we are in, continues to push, the social problems that you have raised would not be reduced, but would be increased. So the proposals you put forward are not green proposals, they are poison green proposals, they must be handled very carefully [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] the protection of the lowest social groups. [[Bence of Turdai: What are you talking about?]] So I would like to ask you not to attack, but to support [[The president's ringing again.]] the policy of reducing costs. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-21-153	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, László Toroczkai, representative of Mi Hazank, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What is there money for, Prime Minister? It's an address. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the head of the Group of Mi Hazank has stated in advance that he is asking for a personal reply, so he must answer in the hour of the third immediate questions due to Mr. Prime Minister's absence. The next representative of the Group of Our Country now asks an immediate question. I give the floor to Dóra Dúró, representative of Mi Hazank, who wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "The fertility has been reduced, what does the government do? It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Balázs Orbán, the Prime Minister's political director, was entitled to respond. In view of the fact that the Head of the Group of Mi Hazan did not make a preliminary statement on the personal response request, this should therefore be regarded as not asking for a personal reply by the representative who asked the question on the basis of the House Rule of Decision. I therefore give the floor to Mrs Dóra Dúró.
u2022-11-21-154	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Political Director, What happened was that after 2011, the latest data published by KSH showed that the total fertility rate in Hungary decreased from 1,59 last year to 1.54 in September this year. The need for the government to do so was already apparent in January, when we saw a brutal 20 percent reduction in birth rates that had not been followed by government action for decades. There have also been many warnings from the civil sector, we ourselves have repeatedly spoken about the need for the government to act, but even in May the Hungarian National Bank made a package of proposals on what the government should do to prevent Hungarian society from continuing to move towards national death. It is also evident for a long time that the proportion of children without children among 35 - year - olds has never been so high. So the warning signs have been there for a long time, and the government hasn't done anything. In addition, last week, a study published in the journal Demography, which was supported by one of the ministries, and in this study we read that corrected and thus completed fertility has probably not increased in the last ten years. So, if you look at the figure of the total number of children born by Hungarian women in their lives, there has probably not been any progress in this respect in the last ten years either. My question, Mr political director, is what radical measures the government will take, so that we can remedy this problem, which is the biggest problem in Hungary. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-11-21-155	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Balázs Orbán, the political director of the Prime Minister.
u2022-11-21-156	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and There is a family-friendly government in Hungary, we call the demographic problem a real national strategy problem, and we see the solution to this problem not in mass immigration, but in support of families. If you look at the data, allow me to talk about the last 12 years in general, because this is how you can really understand exactly what situation we are in, the current generation of 20-39 years old, the number of people born between 1981 and 2000 is significantly lower than that of previous generations; in 2010 we are talking about 1 million 448 thousand people, now we are talking about 1 million 200 people. That's a 20-percent drop. Nevertheless, thanks to the successful family support system, birth numbers did not decrease in proportion, so last year not only 73,000 children would have been born, which could be expected based on the above proportions, but 20 thousand more. This is about what the fertility rate is capable of, of course, of course, in monthly data there are changes, which you mentioned, the ratio between 1.55 and 1.6. Our goal is to further strengthen this ratio. The Prime Minister has also made a commitment here in Parliament to maintaining, on the one hand, the most important elements of the family support system in this very difficult economic situation, and, on the other hand, to supplement them with additional elements which, in part, wish to address the problems that you have raised in your speech, so that we can bring forward the birth of the first child, and, on the other hand, not to conflict with the otherwise desirable integration of women into the labour market, but to combine it. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-21-157	Thank you very much. We have a rejoinder for Congresswoman Dóra Dúró.
u2022-11-21-158	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Political Director. However, I would like us to say a few words not only from the last 12 years, but also, say, from the next 12 years, and to look at how we can achieve, for example, this 2.1 ratio, which the Prime Minister has set for 2030. However, it is already apparent that this is not going to work, as we would have to triple the growth rate of the last 12 years in the next eight years to achieve this. On the other hand, it is not acceptable for the government to be able to explain why the demographic shift in Hungary cannot be achieved. You have agreed to govern with war, with such an economic situation, and you must also undertake to put Hungarian demography on track in these circumstances, for example by facilitating the situation in the labour market or by increasing family support in proportion to GDP, because it must also be added that family support has not increased in proportion to GDP between 2009 and 2017. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-11-21-159	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A rejoinder shall be granted to the Director.
u2022-11-21-160	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and With his last sentence, I'd argue very strongly, it's simply not true, it's a methodical, calculating trick. In fact, in 2021-22, if we look at Eurostat data, Hungary spends the most on family support systems. Only the methods of calculation are the instruments of traditional family support policy, which are carried by other Western European countries, and not the tax incentives and the resources allocated from other Hungarian budgets in other ways. So that number is worth watching. You are absolutely right that this figure, even though it is a market leader in Europe, needs to be further increased. This is also the case with the government's commitment that, despite the fact that, everywhere else in Europe, there will be less and less spending on supporting families, there will be opposite processes in Hungary. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And in this difficult economic situation, we do not give up our goals, and we are trying to achieve a demographic turnaround or, if we have achieved it, to strengthen Hungary. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-21-161	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What do you think of this, Prime Minister?" I'm sorry, I'm sorry, [[17.20]] I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the head of the LMP faction said in advance that he would ask for a personal reply, so that he will have to answer at the hour of the next immediate questions due to the absence of Prime Minister. Now it is up to the next representative of the LMP faction who wants to ask the question, that is, Mr Matthew Kanász-Nagy, who wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Now where is the wind blowing? It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Balázs Orbán, the Prime Minister's political director, was entitled to respond. In view of the fact that the head of the LMP's faction did not make a preliminary statement on the personal response request, this should therefore be considered as not to be a personal response by the questioning representative on the basis of the decision-making house rule. Therefore, it is for Congressman Matthew Kanász-Nagy.
u2022-11-21-162	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Political Director, I am making a desperate request towards you and the government. Please help me clear this up. Now, where's the wind blowing inside the steering wheel? Where's the wind coming from after László Palkovics' departure? What is the government's position at this moment on the licensing of wind energy? Wind energy provides cheap, clean, affordable energy, especially in the middle of the energy crisis, if we could harness wind energy. Based on expert opinions, studies and scientific work, wind power plants could provide up to 10 percent of the country's energy demand. However, since 2016, your government has banned the installation of wind turbines; those few wind turbines can operate from earlier, but they provide less than 1-2 percent of energy. These capacities could be used to a large extent and carried up. A few weeks ago, Viktor Orbán admitted to my immediate question that there was a debate within the government on wind energy. It was apparent that László Palkovics represented the supporting position in this debate, who spoke about the authorisation and support of wind energy even in the weeks before his resignation. Well, it seems that Viktor Orbán won this battle within the government, because László Palkovics was forced to leave. But the question is: After László Palkovics' departure, where are we? Do you admit that you really don't want to allow wind power, or, despite László Palkovics' departure, can a turn turn turn and allow wind power, or will the 2016 decree be abolished? I look forward to the answers to these questions. Thank you very much.
u2022-11-21-163	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Orbán Balázs, the political director of the Prime Minister.
u2022-11-21-164	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I can tell you that the wind is blowing from Csaba Lantos, so if everything goes as planned, you will also have the opportunity to ask the Minister of Energy about his plans here in the House. If you'll allow me, I'd like to make a comment on this, which you may consider to be unkind, but which is on the basis of the facts. You define yourself as a green party, and in the context of your speeches over the last few weeks, I have always heard you talk about a type of renewable energy source, wind energy. Now, if a party that defines itself as a green party does not usually talk about the importance of renewable energy sources in parentheses, I will only add that it basically denies the need for nuclear energy, which is known to be a balancing energy key to the expansion of renewable energy capacities, but I will also close this parentheses, but you are talking about the support of one renewable energy source every time, it is not a green-party turnaround or a green-party demand, but the industrial lobby lobby! And I don't think there's a place for that in this House. We are not approaching this issue from the point of view of an industrial lobby, but from what sources of energy we can support Hungary's supply of green energy. We believe that we need to be able to produce balancing energy from domestic sources, so we need nuclear energy. Review, this is the first step, your position on the Paks. Second: In the case of Hungary, this is recognised by all experts, the conditions of solar energy as a renewable energy source are much more favourable than any other, so our first and most important goal is to: [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] In order to expand solar capacity. We have moved in this direction, and we would like to ask for your support in this direction. Thank you so much for listening.
u2022-11-21-165	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Máté Kanász-Nagy in return.
u2022-11-21-166	Thank you for the floor. Well, it doesn't seem to follow the LMP's lines enough, because we talk about solar energy a lot. This energy source, which has been taxed, has been subject to a penalty tax, and the development of the last few weeks also bans entry into the system, thus putting families or businesses who want to install new solar panels on top of their buildings and households in a very difficult situation. With regard to wind energy, do you understand that, now that there is no Minister for Industry or Energy, at present the government does not have an opinion on this, does it not have a position on this, must we wait for the new Minister to have an opinion on this? But, by the way, I am very curious about your opinion, obviously, as the Prime Minister's political director, you will advise Prime Minister on this matter. What do you think: Should the 2016 Regulation be repealed or deleted? This is a yes/no question. Thank you very much.
u2022-11-21-167	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Prime Minister's political director is also entitled to a return answer.
u2022-11-21-168	Thank you. Fortunately, life is more complicated, and timeframes allow me to answer this question more complexly. It is quite simply that the government would make Hungary's conditions impossible in relation to solar energy, but it is not true. So how would we make it impossible if the amount of electricity produced by solar power plants increased by 54 per cent in 2021; since 2014 the share of solar energy in the energy mix has increased from 0.2 per cent to 11 per cent? What is the impossibility that will result in Europe's greatest expansion? So there's something wrong with either the transmitter or the receiver, so I suggest we fix the error first. With regard to wind energy, I think that the first and most important is solar energy, then the use of geothermal energy sources, and then we can talk about the extension of wind energy, but also there, I think these wind farms cause an environmental load that is worth dealing with very well. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] The installation of a wind farm is acceptable, but I think the creation of these parks is more of a problem, given the environmental damage. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-21-169	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Balázs Győrffy, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question:. Left-wing assassination, sanctions against farmers? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. Sándor Farkas granted the right to reply. I would like to ask the Member to accept the person who is responding or to ask the Minister for his answer in person.
u2022-11-21-170	I'll take it, thank you.
u2022-11-21-171	You have the floor, Congressman Balázs Győrffy.
u2022-11-21-172	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear Deputy Minister, Even during the coronal virus epidemic, I think that it has been quite well placed, and that it has been exerting its strength during the drought of the past period, but it has ensured the country's food supply, and there is a great deal of work to be done here in addition to energy sanctions to keep the sector or parts of it on its feet. It was a great help that we could feel the support of the government all along, and that the government was trying to control the EU's sanctions efforts, which have a strong impact on our sector, even the price of fertilizer. Meanwhile, what does Péter Márki-Zay, the failed PM candidate on the dollar left, do? As mayor of Hódmezővásárhely, he is trying to sabotage farmers. [[17 .30]] He's making an old dream come true now, because he tried to do it two years ago. It betrays farmers, landowners, intends to iron tens of millions of forints per hectare in the order of tens of thousands of forints, claiming that it serves social interests while spending hundreds of millions of forints, for example, on lavishing the city hall tower, fountains, or even rewards. I quote the mayor: "We are asking for help from the extra income of the most able people in recent years. I don't know what extra income Péter Márki-Zay means, while the drought damage was reported to nearly 100,000 hectares in his county. In other settlements, at least local farmers have been exempted from the obligation, and nothing like this has happened here. Apparently, Péter Márki-Zay is only interested in rolling dollars. We regretted that, while both the Chamber and Magos called on left-wing representatives, the general assembly in Hódmezővásárhely accepted this proposal and will enter into force without having to be a great psychic, all of this will be incorporated into the price of food. Dear Deputy Minister, I ask how the farming community can count on the government's attention in this critical situation. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-11-21-173	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Farkas.
u2022-11-21-174	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for bringing the subject of land tax to Parliament, because I believe that during this period, farmers should be subject to tax for an assassination that must be fought and a decision taken. Why am I saying this? You referred to that. The country has been hit by historical drought, especially in the lowland counties and regions. As a result of the energy crisis, the prices of inputs are constantly rising, so the production costs of agriculture, which brings with it the increase in food prices, which we always ask why it is happening. Compared to last year, the price of fertilizer has tripled, pesticides have increased by 17 percent, feed has become more expensive by 39 percent. The electricity costs of livestock farms and gardening plants, which also increased by about 60 percent, have also been added. This means that these costs will also be reflected in prices next year, unfortunately, and even the taxation of the landowner will bring about an increase in land lease fees, so farmers working on rented land will have to expect additional costs. Unfortunately, the example you mentioned is not unique. In addition to Hódmezővásárhely, just this week, on Thursday, the local government body of Szentes took over Péter Márki-Zay's rolling-dollar vision and also proposed the introduction of land taxes. I am sure that this will also be on the agenda for all left-wing cities. I think it is completely wrong policy, and even irresponsible, that local farmers are being sabotaged in these circumstances, and that not only is it being sabotaged, but it is creating a new social tension, a situation that is extremely difficult to deal with, not just to deal with the situation, but to continue farming.
u2022-11-21-175	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Farkas. Mr Balázs Győrffy is entitled to a rejoinder.
u2022-11-21-176	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister, for your support. I think farmers don't forget, and they know who's behind them and who's working against them. In fact, the example is sticky in the wrong sense, and you can hear very extreme ideas, even from a thousand forints land tax per golden crown, which could be up to 40 thousand forints in a better quality area, with up to half of the EU's support. These are the thoughts of old times: those who are a little more skilled must be taken away from them, farmers who are moving forward must be taxed, and the Culach movement again struck a nail in the left's head, and their goal again is to have a kind of agricultural contribution, which is what they used to call the Culac tax. I hope that the government is committed to the Hungarian economy, and I can say that both the Chamber and Magos are on the side of farmers. We can't let them, we can't let the left make them impossible. Thank you very much.
u2022-11-21-177	Thank you very much, Congressman Balázs Győrffy. The Secretary of State shall also have a rejoinder.
u2022-11-21-178	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, Based on the experience of the last few decades, we know exactly what the left has to say about farmers farming the land. It seems, as you mentioned, that 80 years was not enough to change your mindset. Over the past 12 years, the Hungarian government has conducted a agricultural policy focusing on efficiency, increasing competitiveness and, last but not least, ensuring safe food supply. We are also on the side of farmers in the most difficult times, because without their work, there would be no such safe and fresh food on the table of Hungarian people. I object to any form of land tax, and we will protect local farmers against the failed policy of left-wing city leaders. I ask for your cooperation in this, honourable Member. Thank you very much.
u2022-11-21-179	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The hour of immediate questioning is over, the item is closed. We'll move on to simple questions. Zoltán Varga, representative of DK [[Dr. Imre Vejkey: Mr. President!]] Asking the Minister of Technology and Industry: Why is the BMW investment in Debrecen worth it to us Hungarian taxpayers? Not for you, for us! It's an address. [[Dr. Imre Vejkey reporting again.]] On behalf of the Prime Minister, Szijjártó, who is responsible for the subject... [[For signal:]] I'm sorry, I was wrong. Although the hour of immediate questioning has passed, the round is not closed, so the question of KDNP will follow, which I will look for. Sorry for the mistake. Imre Vejkey, a representative of KDNP, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question, "What else is hidden from the secret financing of the dollar-left page?" It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr Répássy was entitled to reply. I ask Mr. Congressman, he accepts the person who is responding.
u2022-11-21-180	Yes, thank you very much.
u2022-11-21-181	He'll take it. Congressman Imre Vejkey has the floor.
u2022-11-21-182	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, The leaders of the Hungarian secret services made their first report on the foreign financing of left-wing parties at last week's meeting of the National Security Committee. Shocking details have been revealed. Since the parliamentary campaign, it's been loud from the press, more specifically, from the secret party funding on the left. In the three decades since the change of regime, there was no precedent for what happened in the last Hungarian election campaign. There was no attempt by foreign individuals or companies to influence the outcome of the elections with campaign support. Péter Márki-Zay, the candidate for Prime Minister of the Left, has announced that he has received hundreds of millions of HUF campaign money from abroad. It is also no secret that the Left received the money from one of George Soros' organizations, Action for Democracy. If you had missed the attention of Hungarian citizens so far, they would have already learned that the Act on the Functioning of the Parties clearly states that parties cannot accept subsidies from abroad. This principle based on popular sovereignty was played out by the left by the organization of the fallen Prime Minister's candidate, which does not function as a party. Nevertheless, he was an active part of the left-wing campaign, with the logo of the Márki-Zay movement on all the left-wing posters. Many have wondered what George Soros has asked of the left in exchange for hundreds of millions. Obviously, a businessman always asks for something in return that coincides with his interests. As we know, Soros has always taken advantage of crises over the past decades to look for them. However, it does not do any different in an election campaign or even in a wartime full of horrors. Secretary of State, please state your position on this matter. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2022-11-21-183	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Secretary of State Répássy Robert. [[17.40]]
u2022-11-21-184	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, In an article published a few weeks ago, I read that American President Joe Biden extended the national emergency decree issued because of the continuing threat of foreign electoral intervention. So in the United States, because of foreign electoral intervention, the president issued an emergency order. The spokesperson of the U.S. State Department called foreign funding an attack on sovereignty, carried out through cover organisations, and said that this is an effort to prevent the peoples of the world from choosing the governments they see fit to represent them, represent their interests and represent their values. Well, we can fully agree with this approach, so the attitude of trying to influence a country's democratic choice with foreign money is absolutely unacceptable. It is forbidden to carry out such actions in the democratic countries of the world, and democracies cannot tolerate interference in their choices. So, of course, in the United States, they were not thinking of the financiers you were talking about, but they were thinking of another financier, but I think that the National Security Committee of the Hungarian Parliament is looking at this for the same reason. In addition to the fact that national security interests may have been violated by this foreign funding, there are still a number of suspicions of fraud, embezzlement, money laundering, personal data abuse or fiscal fraud. They're all being investigated in these cases. So it's time for the authorities and Parliament to investigate what happened. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-21-185	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Vejkey has a rejoinder.
u2022-11-21-186	Dear Secretary of State, The Hungarians believe that this procedure of the left was not only illegal, but also morally wrong and shameless. It is a shame to trick Hungarian citizens by receiving large amounts from abroad. The facts we've learned are shocking. However, the situation is much more serious than can be seen from previous statements. That is why Máté Kocsis initiated the removal of the classification of the secret service material, as Hungarian people have the right to know what really happened. The leader of the Fidesz faction published a recording made at the end of August on which Péter Márki-Zay talked about the purpose of American campaign money. On the tape it is said that the campaign will have a saldo of HUF 100 million, i.e. the remainder of it, and they did not start from zero, because only the amount of support received from the US source in June was hundreds of millions of forints. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-21-187	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State is also entitled to a rejoinder.
u2022-11-21-188	Thank you for the floor. Congressman! This whole case is illegal under Hungarian law. So foreign campaign funding is banned in almost all Member States of the European Union. There has been a political consensus in Hungary since 1990 that political campaigns cannot be financed in Hungary from abroad. By the way, the left-wing parties officially received HUF 810 million from the Hungarian state for the campaign, but it seems that this was not enough, and several times this came from abroad to finance their campaign. So, regardless of how the left communicates, even their representatives at the National Security Committee supported the proposal to un-encrypt, because they cannot avoid responsibility and they cannot avoid public control, so it is necessary to publish what has been said there as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-21-189	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Répássy Róbert. Dear Parliament, Now, let's move on to the questions. I repeat that Zoltán Varga, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Technology and Industry:. Why is the BMW investment in Debrecen worth it to us Hungarian taxpayers? Not for you, for us! It's an address. At the request of Prime Minister Péter Szztáray, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, who is competent and competent on behalf of the Prime Minister, will answer the question. Mr Zoltán Varga has the floor.
u2022-11-21-190	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I came halfway to good news, because the BMW factory, which employs a thousand people, is already being built in Debrecen, which really sounds nice until we scratch the surface. The company was agreed four years ago, but the foundation stone was only laid this summer, which already slows down the planned transfer in 2023 by two years. The developments around the factory have so far cost the budget about 120 billion forints, i.e. 120 million forints for each job, of course with the Hungarian taxpayers' money. If we do a little more math, the investment costs Hungarian citizens 12,000 forints each from the elderly to the babies. I must add that, of course, there will be 22 billion orders for Garancsi's companies, and even Lőrinc Mészáros can build a railway line from 55 billion forints to 3.5 billion forints per kilometer. I must add that the railway line has not been built in Hungary this expensive. This in itself should, of course, be worth it to the Hungarian taxpayers and, obviously, to the decision-makers in Brussels, it will also convincingly demonstrate the Hungarian government's commitment to anti-corruption. And now it's no secret, the factory will be built by a Turkish giant company, who, according to the press, usually employs migrant workers from the Far East, living in inhumane conditions, in many cases in booth cities, and unfairly low wages. Some say it's nothing but modern - day slave labor. Of course, the thousand jobs, I have to add, do sound good, but we do not know how many Hungarian employees will actually be employed by BMW in the future factory. So I ask Mr Secretary of State why it is worth it to us that jobs in Hungary are so expensively created. What tender did Garancsi and Mészáros' company win the works around the factory? Will you check the living and working conditions of migrant workers who will be employed by the Turkish company? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much.
u2022-11-21-191	Thank you, Congressman Zoltán Varga. I give the floor to State Secretary Péter András Sztáray.
u2022-11-21-192	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, If the question had to be answered very briefly as to why this investment is worth it to Hungarian taxpayers, it could be said that this BMW plant will bring the automotive industry of the future to our country. As you well know, a global revolution is taking place in the automotive industry, the dominance of conventional propulsion has been broken, and the emphasis has shifted towards electrical solutions. We Hungarians have been world leaders in this process, and the fact that the most important element of the BMW's electromobility strategy is being implemented in Debrecen clearly shows that Hungary's position in this area will be significantly strengthened in the coming years. As far as the issue of migrant workers is concerned, in the performance of their duties, the winners of contract tenders may only employ workers authorised under the legislation in force. All construction activities relating to their accommodation and their temporary residence shall be subject to authorisation. It is important to note that most of the construction work was entrusted to companies based in Hungary. Many Hungarian companies are currently working in the area, so many domestic workers are involved in the construction work. Honourable Congressman, The BMW plant in Debrecen can serve as a model for the sector. It will be the first factory in the world to be completely separated from fossil fuels during production. The paradigm shift required for sustainability will be achieved, inter alia, through the use of green energy and the continuous provision of circularity, i.e. re-use of raw materials and resources used for production as far as possible. As a result, the performance of the Hungarian economy will rise again in such a way that we can keep our emissions on a declining path. So there is no question why the Hungarian taxpayers are worth the investment of BMW in Debrecen. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-21-193	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Starray. Dear Parliament, Sándor Szabó, representative of the MSZP, would you like to ask the Minister of the Interior a question: It's an address. Mr Sándor Szabó has the floor.
u2022-11-21-194	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In the last 12 years, the Orbán government has continuously reduced social expenditure. This was also the case when there was no crisis, so it was after Covid came, or now when record inflation or overhead increases hit the population. [[17.50]] Neither during the period of economic recovery nor at the time of Covid, the amount of family benefits, such as child benefit, family benefit, has increased, and we can also say that the 40 percent increase in food prices or 20 percent record inflation will not help the situation. Now, the government is putting in place the bill to further reduce public engagement, we see that the post offices, the government windows are closing, but we already know that because of the transformation of health care, hospitals, possible clinics are closing down, or they're going to shut down shelters. Unfortunately, this is in line with the amendment of the social law, with the state moving back to guaranteeing social security, the fact that it is being put into law, in fact, that it is the least necessary for the citizen to expect assistance from the State. The transfer of people from the social system could be justified professionally, and could also be put to debate, but we know that this is not the case, that they are bringing the already vulnerable people into a brutally bled social care system, where there are neither enough professionals nor appropriate circumstances to ensure that more people are cared for by the social system. Thus, people will pay much more for care, in many cases people will be sent home, who do not require further medical care, and this is likely to have serious consequences. For all these reasons, I ask the Secretary of State: what will happen to the patients, where and how much will they hire those who need care? You're gonna have enough nurses to take care of them, how much money does the state save on restructuring, how much does that mean to the budget, and why do we even pay social security if they're planning such modifications? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2022-11-21-195	Thank you, Sándor Szabó. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2022-11-21-196	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Even his first sentence is very easy to disprove, and the rest is also: you said that in recent years the level of social expenditure has decreased. Well, in the budget that you have adopted, honourable Member, the amount of social benefits was HUF 325 billion, HUF 325 billion; in the budget we recently adopted, HUF 1326 billion, HUF 1001 billion more. More than three times the budget on the social lines, which you said was constantly reduced, decreased each year, decreased even in times of crisis, and decreased even in times of crisis. Look at the numbers, if you think that 1326 is smaller than 325, then in this case you are right, but then you are introducing a renewed mathematical model in the Hungarian public address at the same time. In our view, this is 1001 billion forints more, including because we introduced new and new forms of help that provided billions of HUF 10 billion in surplus to those in need, from home assistance to home support to child care. For families, family tax breaks, baby shower support, CSOK are subsidies that you didn't mention directly, but which also help families. As far as health centres are concerned, honourable Member, everyone will, of course, continue to receive the same care as before, but sometimes there are parts of hospitals, in several hospitals, where caregivers are cared for, who do not need health care anymore, but social care. They do not need an intensive medical presence, the presence of health care personnel, but a condition such as sickness or other reasons that they really need help, so they need help in an institution, but that institution is not a hospital. Therefore, we say that those in need of social assistance should go to a social institution, and those in need of health care will continue to be provided by the state in a health institution. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-11-21-197	Thank you, Secretary of State of Rétvári. Dear Parliament, Éva Sebők, representative of Momentum, would you like to ask the Minister of the Interior a question about the Dr. László Elek Hospital and Police Institute in Orosház? It's an address. Congresswoman Éva Sebők has the floor.
u2022-11-21-198	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I presume you'll be answered by a honourable Secretary of State. Since the beginning of August, I have been trying to get an answer to a very, very simple question: which department, what job, how many people work in the hospital and clinic in Orosháza? Since August, I have not been able to get from one to two; I have submitted a written question, to which Mr Rétvári, State Secretary, who has only not answered the question, has replied. Then I turned to the hospital for information in the public interest, who said they didn't have the data. I've spent more than ten years in the field of employment, and I know exactly that such an institution should have a stock table, a wage planning, a budget plan, and that's a second-grade student's IT skills can be thrown together in about two hours with the data plate I asked for. Once again, I asked the Ministry of the Interior a written question, who once again had a good answer. The statement by the hospital director that they don't have the data, I see two imaginable scenarios. One scenario is that he's telling the truth, the other is that he's lying. If you are lying, it will be true, and even if you are telling the truth, it will be true that, after such statements, I believe that in a normal country this hospital director should no longer be allowed to run a hospital by common accord. I would ask Mr Rétvári if he could accept that this simple question cannot be answered by a hospital director in Hungary today, and what measures would you like to take to prevent a hospital director from saying that in the future. Thank you very much.
u2022-11-21-199	Thank you, Congresswoman Éva Scarők. I ask for an answer from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2022-11-21-200	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Hospitals also operate according to the law, if you ask an accurate question according to the law, you can answer it. If you ask a question that can't be interpreted from the point of view of the hospital, you obviously can't answer it. For precise questions... a lot of your fellow Members here speak in Parliament every day, telling you what answers they receive, so we cannot say at all that there is no provision in this. A good part of these data is also public, which hospitals also publish on their own websites, so I think these numbers are quite well known and transparent, so if you ask accurate questions, you will be answered by law. In fact, you have not supported it, but here we have accepted a legislative amendment without your support, which has made public interest data claims even faster and easier in terms of reimbursement, and this does not change the fact that you obviously have to state exactly what you are asking, and you have to ask a hospital that you can answer, obviously not something that you can't answer. Unfortunately, you did not vote in parallel to your own request. If you had at least supported this proposal there, your speech would have been a little more credible, but there the political aspect overrided this by the faction discipline to obstruct the agreement between Hungary and the European Commission, so these proposals were not supported and then stood up to why there was no wider freedom of information. However, I can tell you national data, honourable Member, that the number of doctors working in Hungary, if you have looked at it, was 33 943, so in 2010, it was under 34 thousand, and now you find a number of over 38 thousand, honourable Member, so thank God, the number of doctors working has increased. And if you look at their payment details, you can see a difference in that, too. A beginner doctor in Hungary had a gross basic wage of HUF 129 500 on 1 January 2010, which is now HUF 619 thousand. [[Éva Sebők: The Orosháza ear-nose-geology?]] A doctor who worked for more than 40 years had a gross basic wage of 262,000 forints in 2010, which is now 2 million 142 thousand forints. [[Éva Scars: That's not the question.]] So in these, however, there has been a positive shift in recent years. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-11-21-201	Thank you very much, Secretary of State of Rétvári. Dear Parliament, Ferenc Varga, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of the Interior a question: how much has the family-friendly government helped foster parents in recent times? It's an address. It is for Congressman Ferenc Varga.
u2022-11-21-202	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, You like to say that they help Hungarian families as family-friendly governments. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there are about 20,000 children in our country who are not allowed to grow up in a family and socialize here. And that's where the importance of foster care or foster care comes in, the importance of foster parents whom I believe the government has been extremely emotional in recent years. Children's supplies have not been raised since 2008, 14 years ago, and significant economic and social changes have taken place in our country. Only inflation in 2008-2021 was 53 percent in cumulative terms. [[18.00]] Of course, I can see that this is getting embarrassing for you, and I can see that it is made with a nice 25 percent increase in supplies, but the truth is that this is not a raise, it is just a correction, and even though 25 percent sounds good, in reality this amount is HUF 10 687. Most of the foster parents are desperate because they have to choose between raising children and making a living. Do you think this increase is sufficient for parents to raise these children under adequate financial conditions or conditions? Do you think an extra HUF 10,687 will suffice? Because I don't think so. What will the government do if, in this economic and social crisis, foster parents give these children back to the institutions in their final despair? How family-friendly do you think that is? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-11-21-203	Thank you very much, Congressman Ferenc Varga. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2022-11-21-204	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think we agree that we should also help children whose own biological parents cannot create family conditions, and we do so with foster parents. We choose one of the best ways, because here these children can grow up in family conditions. We had an important goal, and you pointed out that about 23,000 children live in child protection, and 70 percent of them live in foster care. Almost 90 percent of children under the age of 12 live in foster homes. So I think it's important that not only the youngest, but almost everyone can grow up in foster care until they're 12 years old. This is also due to the fact that in recent years, over the past decade, we have been able to increase the number of seats by 35%. So the form of support that we have developed, what we have increased, has helped us to have more foster parents in Hungary. It would have been very good if Jobbik had helped us, but unfortunately, when we voted in favour of a single foster family employment relationship, Jobbik did not support it. When it said that the foster pay was indexing the minimum wage, so it's rising with it, Jobbik didn't support it. When we voted in favour of full entitlement to health and pension insurance for foster parents, Jobbik did not support this. When we voted in favour of tax and contribution reductions for fostered children, Jobbik did not support this. If you had voted in favour of these, perhaps your concern or your willingness to help would have been more credible. In addition, from 2015 and 2016 we have provided additional assistance for free institutional meals and free textbooks. From 1 January 2020, you have also referred to the right to a travel discount since 2020. So almost every year we tried to increase these discounts. And let me tell you another sequence of numbers. The foster parent who cared for one child received HUF 15,000 net at the beginning of our government, and now the foster parent who cared for three children received HUF 100,000 net at the beginning of our government, now receiving HUF 180,000 gross. Thank you so much for listening.
u2022-11-21-205	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Sándor Berki, representative of the Dialogue, would you like to ask the Minister of the Interior a question: It's an address. Congressman Sándor Berki has the floor.
u2022-11-21-206	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The recent amendments to the legislation on social and health cover the extension of the tasks of the National Rescue Service. According to the amendments, the OMSZ will be responsible for the operation of the on-call system in the countryside after 10 p.m., while the current 300 on-call centres will remain in total 102. In doing so, the government is placing a heavy burden on the already very busy National Rescue Service. It is not clear how the OMSC can carry out this task within the current framework. It is enough to think only of the far insufficient number of ambulances or of the extra tasks needed, but for the time being, of missing workforce. Because of these shortcomings, the on-call system has been outsourced to private operators in many places in recent years, who often did not perform their tasks at the right level. It is clear, therefore, that the smooth operation of the new system is unthinkable without funds. In the past, 60 percent wage increase was promised to rescue workers, and in recent years only a few thousand HUF net increase was available from the government. Further questions are raised by the way in which the government confirms the transformation of the on-call system with the success of the Hajdú-Bihar County model project. According to my information, OMSZ was able to solve the night shift there only through a labour transfer from other counties. If this is the case, it is obvious that this will not be possible for operations at national level. Dear Secretary of State, In the light of the above, I would like to ask you to be informed: did the government assess how many additional ambulances and ambulances will be needed in connection with the on-call system? It is expected that the OMSZ will receive additional resources, and if so, to what extent? Will the government publish the detailed documentation of the Hajdú-Bihar County model, the county data related to the on-call system? Thank you for your reply.
u2022-11-21-207	Thank you very much, Congressman Sándor Berki. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2022-11-21-208	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, This week, we will have the opportunity to talk about this transformation for a long time, let me just give you the main figures on how to start this process. In recent years, 107 rescue stations have been renovated and 34 completely new rescue stations have been built. You said with half a sentence that the data on ambulances was worse than before. I don't know how you know that. Ten years ago, the average age of an ambulance was 8.3 years ago, now 4.7 to 4.8 years ago, so the average age of an ambulance was nearly halved. We have acquired nearly a thousand new ambulances in recent years, all equipped with modern equipment. If you look at the rescue budget, you will see that at the beginning of our government it was HUF 26.7 billion, and this HUF 26.7 billion is now HUF 65.4 billion. So there's a much higher rescue budget, about two and a half times higher. You told me there wasn't just a few thousand forints salary increase. Mr President, at the beginning of our administration, a paramedic earned 173 thousand forints of basic salary and mobile rent, together with allowances, this year it is 173 thousand forints 472,000 forints; this is a noticeable increase. For a rescue officer, the estimated average salary rose from HUF 242 thousand to HUF 671 thousand, including basic salary, mobile rents and allowances, so this is a noticeable increase. And indeed, as you pointed out, the direction of the bill and the amendment is that after 10:00 p.m., when there is obviously less on-call than before 10:00 p.m., then, following the example in Hajdú-Bihar County, it should be the ambulance that triangulates the patient as a kind of dispatcher service, so that he can determine what he really needs, he really needs an ambulance, an ambulance, or he can be helped in another way. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] This is how we trust that on-call care will be provided as quickly and flexibly as possible. Thank you very much.
u2022-11-21-209	Thank you, Secretary of State of Rétvári. Dear Parliament, Dávid Dócs, representative of Mi Hazank, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question with the title "Nógrád deserves special attention." Congressman David Dócs has the floor.
u2022-11-21-210	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Deputy Minister, The most typical business form of Nógrád is in agriculture, as this is what the majority of the county's economy is built on, so its players deserve special attention, but of course we are also talking about a very important issue at national level. Therefore, my question concerns the advance payment of area payments, as according to the sources of the Hungarian Gazette and other official bodies, the payment of advances started on 17 October. This summer, the heavy drought damage, the significantly increased prices of inputs, autumn plantings and soil work have now been particularly high on the importance and role of area subsidies in Hungarian agriculture, as many farmers expect their due amount as their last resort, from which they would like to lay the foundations for their farming and production next year. They wait, but they don't get it, because it's been more than a month, and the most important part of them hasn't yet had access to the funds they deserve. [[18.10]] Of course, we are aware of the ever-increasing crisis, the difficulties of public finances, the savings measures introduced at the state level, but next year's bread, in the Hungarian agriculture, cannot be saved, because if farmers do not receive the expected advances in time, they cannot do the work in time either, and since most farmers do not have any reserves, most of the revenue will be turned back to their own economy, so in many cases they can also face serious liquidity problems. Discounted credit products and bank constructions can be a solution in the short term, but we should not be indebted to the actors of the Hungarian agriculture. Therefore, my question is that the single area area financed mainly by the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund with a budget of more than HUF 300 billion [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] aid payments where they are kept in aggregate terms. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from the benches of our country.]]
u2022-11-21-211	Thank you, Congressman Dócs. I give the floor to Deputy Minister Sándor Farkas.
u2022-11-21-212	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Thank you, my fellow Member, for your concern about the advance payment so important to farmers. On this issue, I would like to inform you that the Hungarian Treasury will continue to prioritise the payment of EU funds and direct subsidies on the basis of a pre-defined timetable and the practice developed in previous years. In this context, payment of advances shall be initiated after 15 October for all applications where no errors were found by administrative and on-the-spot checks. It is important to point out that the Hungarian Treasury does not have any discretion, so it cannot prioritize producers in difficulty that are more affected by drought. Since the beginning of the advance payment, around HUF 196 billion has been paid on six items. The main item was the single area payment, where 132 thousand customers received HUF 173 billion. The second most important production is the dairy cow premium, where 2800 producers received HUF 16.5 billion. As far as Nógrád County, an advance payment of HUF 2.7 billion has been made, of which some 2,300 producers have benefited. Under the single area payment, 2.3 billion forints were allocated to producers and 345 million forints through milk support. I can assure you, Member, that, given this year's extreme drought and the energy crisis, the government will continue to do its utmost to ensure the financial liquidity of farmers. Please accept my notice. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-11-21-213	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Bakos, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister a question:. Expecting the Minister responsible for new transport to support the climate lease? It's an address. At the request of Prime Minister János Lázár, Minister for Construction and Investment, who is competent and competent on the subject, Parliamentary Secretary Bálint Nagy will answer the question. Congresswoman Bakos Bernadett has the floor.
u2022-11-21-214	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, In the last 12 years, the government has been pursuing a misguided, car-oriented transport policy. It was too supportive of road transport, but it did not provide sufficient resources for Community transport. Instead of modernising railway lines, motorways were built and instead of the attractive Community transport tariff system an official fuel price was introduced. It is no wonder that transport emissions have increased sharply: between 2013 and 2019 greenhouse gas emissions in the sector have increased by 46 percent, well above the 8 percent increase in the EU during the same period. Gas consumption is making new and new records as we speak. The development of Community transport could also effectively reduce energy consumption and environmental burden. One of the tools for this would be the introduction of a climate lease, which would allow us to travel for 5 thousand HUF a month with all the public transport means. Minister Palkovics said earlier that a German 9 euro pass similar to a climate lease was a huge success. The Ministry of Technology and Industry examined the climate lease, but the government has still not decided on the domestic introduction. Those who examined the air conditioner pass have left the government for the day. In terms of green modernisation of the transport sector, Dávid Vitézy had some hope, but he had already left. My question: what expectations do you have against the new Minister for Transport, Mr State Secretary, what do you expect him to do in order to improve public transport and facilitate the change of modes of transport? Well, what's your position on the air-conditioning lease? How do you evaluate the investigation carried out in the Ministry of Technology and Industry and support the introduction of climate leases? Thank you in advance for your reply.
u2022-11-21-215	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Bakos Bernadett. I give the floor to the Secretary of State Bálint the Great.
u2022-11-21-216	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and After 1 December, we will have the transport area in our wallet, and then we will also consult all relevant experts and organisations of interest in this respect. We will report on the outcome of this consultation, but I would also like to note here that, as a Member of Parliament, Mr János Lázár, the Member of Parliament who, by building the traim train between Hódmezővásárhely and Szeged, resulted in approximately 390 tonnes of carbon monoxide savings in the project. So I think that you can also be sure that we will do everything we can to achieve the best possible solution in the course of the negotiations. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-11-21-217	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Tünde Szabó, Member of the Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister for Regional Development:, What are the latest developments within the innovative Zones? It's an address. Congresswoman Tünde Szabó has the floor.
u2022-11-21-218	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, For long-term economic development programmes, the government has recently set up four economic development zones in order to improve economic and social development, to reduce migration and to increase population retention in economic zones. [[Sic!]] It is well known that the objective of the zones is to achieve the long-term strategic objectives and to allow the counties not to compete with each other, but to move towards a common catch-up. The economic development zone in North-East Hungary can serve as an breaking point for quality catching up and complex developments through its numerous unique possibilities, economic, social, environmental and historical capabilities. I am pleased to report that in the north-east-Hungarian zone, including Nyíregyháza and its region, there has been a visible economic growth within the zone in recent years through cooperation. For example, this year's largest investment will be carried out by the South Korean company W-Scope in our city; in addition, LEGO decided to increase its production area by 50 percent. And another important achievement is that Electrolux is carrying out its biggest investment here. Dear Secretary of State, It is also confirmed that continuous cooperation between zones is essential, and strengthening the partnership is of the utmost importance. For this reason, I would like to ask what new developments have been achieved at national level, thanks to cooperation within innovative zones, and what is expected in relation to this continuation. Thank you very much for your reply. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-11-21-219	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Tünde Szabó. I give the floor to Secretary of State Csaba Latorcai.
u2022-11-21-220	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The government intends that economic development zones play a decisive role in strengthening the economy, in restoring its growth rapidly after the coronal virus pandemic. Their long-term objective is to promote coordinated development and partnership. In the 2014-2020 development cycle, Hungary used the resources available for territorial development extremely well to reduce disparities between regions and increase their competitiveness. [[18.20]] In this way, economic development, competitiveness, infrastructure development and job creation will continue to focus on the use of the resources of the 2021-27 cycle. In the case of economic development and infocommunication, there is a significant increase in resources compared to the previous period, and we spend nearly HUF 2300 billion on local development and local tourism development with more than HUF 1300 billion. The resources of these areas increase almost threefold compared to the previous cycle. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As regards the economic development zone in North-East Hungary, in February 2022 we signed a cooperation agreement with the Presidents of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of the counties concerned. The aim of the partnership is to step up cooperation in increasing the supplier base in Hungary and further developing Hungarian-owned companies in order to make better use of the EU's economic and business development funding. We continue to work to boost the area, including the automotive and mechanical industries, the plastics and rubber industry and the electronics and information technology sector, so that the zones can develop as a competitive economic unit in international comparison. From what we have just said, it is clear what else we would be able to do if the left did not make it difficult for us to bring home the rightful EU funds. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-21-221	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Csaba Latorcai. Dear Parliament, The final question within the agenda follows. Attila Móring József, representative of KDNP, wishes to ask the Minister of Regional Development: . Will the Government support the ideas of the Southern Balatonians? It's an address. Mr József Attila Móring, Congressman.
u2022-11-21-222	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Csistafürdő is located in Somogy county near the southern shore of Lake Balaton, only five kilometres from Fonyód. The spa's 42-degree, mineral-rich, hydrocarbonated, sulphuric hot water from the ground helps to deal with a number of health problems. Its beneficial composition makes it suitable for the treatment of musculoskeletal and rheumatic diseases, gynaecological, dermatological, intestinal and stomach problems. It is popular for those who want to heal and for senior age groups arriving for relaxation purposes. Typically, they visit him. This guest group, however, uses the services of the spa with love and constant use. The southern Balaton region is unserviced in spa services. From Keszthely to Siófok on the southern shore of Lake Balaton, there is no bath, which is a serious disadvantage for tourists, hotel and hosts alike. Cool, rainy, windy weather drives bathers out of the lake, and if it lasts several days, they can even choose to go home, leaving behind a serious financial disadvantage. At this time, the spa traffic is increasing many times, which, unfortunately, can no longer be served. Of course, increasing the capacity of the spa would be important in many ways, since it can play an important role not only in the summer, but also in providing the season and even shortening the dead season; it is already an important pillar of the annual Balaton. Another great advantage of the spa is its location. It is close to Lake Balaton, a bicycle road leads to it, and a road is still being built, as well as the section leading to the small railway station in Balatonfenyves, which was delivered this year, is easily accessible by bicycle, railway or car, only ten minutes away from the motorway. With the development of Csistafürdő, a spa ensemble that preserves specific traditions and services and complements this offer can become a success story, serving the needs of the narrower region, but probably also the reputation of the Hungarian baths. On this basis, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State that the government supports the ideas of the Southern Balatonians. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-21-223	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary Csaba Latorcai.
u2022-11-21-224	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Balaton is a priority resort area in the national development and territorial development concept, whose development receives special attention both in territorial development plans and in territorial development aid policy. The development of Lake Balaton's special holiday resort designates as a task the territorial spread of guest traffic and the development of alternative tourism products based on the characteristics of background areas in remote settlements. The concept also highlights the exploitation of medicinal waters and the importance of developing the services of medicinal baths. These will also benefit from the Chista bath you mentioned. I would like to stress that the tourism strategy for 2030 also addresses health tourism as a major objective, including the development of spas. The South Balaton region received greater support in the 2014-20 development cycle than planned. In the TOP only in Somogy County, we supported the development of Lake Balaton with nearly HUF 25 billion in funding. For the EU development period 2021-27 ahead, we will continue to expand local and regional tourism developments within the TOP Plus framework. The government intends to provide opportunities for the development of services related to spas, spas, spas, spas, local, regional baths and spas for energy purposes. Honourable Congressman, I hope that the good practice and the upcoming period will further strengthen the development of the southern Balaton region, while contributing to the development of settlements far away from the lake, such as the Csistafürdő Buzsák, and we will help to overcome its disadvantages and increase their competitiveness. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-21-225	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Csaba Latorcai. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws affecting the management of assets and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow up in order to increase the efficiency of the management of the State's wealth. The government referral is T/1622. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate, so I will give the floor to Congressman Dávid Héjj, the rapporteur of the committee.
u2022-11-21-226	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that T/1622 was discussed at its meeting on 17 November 2022. a legislative proposal amending certain laws concerning the management of assets in order to improve the efficiency of the management of public assets. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 27 votes in favour, 4 against and 5 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill on the House's table is to use the wealth management experience of the past period to create legislative amendments that introduce changes in state wealth management to compensate for the current economic difficulties, in order to ensure that solutions are as effective and uniform as possible. The bill is the Hungarian National Property Management Ltd. establish a uniform system of exercise of ownership rights in respect of real estate by strengthening its position as a holder of ownership rights. It aims to maintain the state portfolio of assets that are strategically important for the provision of public tasks, while at the same time ensuring that the State's revenue can be increased and expenditure reduced through the sale and exploitation of assets that are not directly used for the provision of tasks. All of this in a simpler, but still transparent way. At the same time, the amendment of the law allows the contract for the exploitation of state assets to be concluded for a limited period of 25 years if the right to recovery undertakes to carry out the investment for the enhancement of the State's assets concerned and the duration of the return on the investment expressly justifies it. A fixed period of 25 years may be extended once by up to five years where all of the obligations of the licensee have been fulfilled on a contractual basis without delay. Given what has been said, I believe that the bill before us should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-21-227	Thank you very much, Congressman David. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask the Secretary General of State, sitting here on behalf of the authors, whether you would like to comment now or later. [[On Dr. János Fónagy's signal:]] In the closet. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. [[18.30]] Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I'd give the floor to the person who applied, but no one came forward. So I'm gonna ask you one more time, would anyone like to comment? [[No signal.]] No one wishes to take the opportunity to speak, so I will close this debate and give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary.
u2022-11-21-228	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the bill before you is to use the wealth management experience of the past period to create a regulation that is capable of countering the current economic difficulties by providing efficient and uniform solutions. During the parliamentary committee's work, the provisions of the bill on the legal succession of the State have been recast and further clarified. Under the proposed amendment, the local government of the place where the estate is situated is the legal heir in respect of the immovable property belonging to the deceased, with the exception of land assets and the movable property on the property which was owned by the deceased at the time of his death. Local governments shall have the right to refuse the inheritance. The new legislation will apply to the succession opened on or after 1 July 2023. The legislative amendment proposed by the Commission in Parliament's decision-making also carried out codification and language-rights clarifications to establish further linguistic and legal coherence in the text. I would also like to thank the committee for its supporting professional work, which has contributed to clarifying, clarifying and supplementing the text of the bill from a professional point of view. Dear Parliament, The regulatory objective set by the bill will further rationalise the management of state wealth. That is why I ask the Honourable Parliament that T/1622. Please support bill No 1 and its summarised proposal for amendment. Thank you for your attention. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-21-229	Thank you very much, Secretary Major. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's report on the provisions relating to the successful implementation of Hungary's appearance at the World Exhibition in Osaka in 2025 and the discussion of the summarised amendment will now follow. Government referral T/1611. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I therefore give the floor to the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Dávid Héjj.
u2022-11-21-230	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 17 November 2022, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/1611 on the provisions relating to the successful implementation of Hungarian appearance at the 2025 Osaka World Exhibition. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. pursuant to Rule 26 of the Rules of Procedure, adopted by 26 votes in favour, 6 votes against and 4 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The aim of the bill on the table of the House is to stimulate the economy and tourism and to carry out the organizational tasks necessary for the Hungarian appearance at the 2025 Osaka World Exhibition in order to facilitate the international market access of Hungarian resident companies, as well as for the establishment of an exhibition pavilion capable of providing complex services and for Hungary's successful appearance at the World Exhibition. There is a particularly important public interest for Hungarian appearance at the 2025 Osaka World Exhibition, for which contracts are considered non-deferential contracts. The bill on the provisions relating to the successful implementation of Hungarian appearance at the World Exhibition in Osaka in 2025 was drawn up in order to ensure that this public interest is fully respected, taking into account the fact that the remaining two and a half years until the opening of the World Exhibition are very short to fully prepare for this. Dear House, The participation of our country in the Osaka Expo 2025 exhibition is a unique opportunity from a diplomatic, economic and tourist point of view. The general objective is to foster and develop diplomatic, economic and cultural relations between Japan and Hungary, as well as to promote new economic cooperation, to develop trade relations and, of course, to strengthen country image. In addition to these goals, Hungary intends to place greater emphasis on exploiting the business potential of world exhibitions in the future. The Hungarian appearance at the World Exhibition offers a unique and special opportunity for innovative small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary for their international expansion. With the help of business partnerships at the exhibition, it is possible to strengthen the Hungarian state's economic relations regionally, to show the products and services of Hungarian companies widely and thus to increase the export performance of individual industries. Given what has been said, I believe that the bill before us should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-21-231	Thank you very much, Congressman David. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask the Secretary of State, Mr Tuzson Bence, who is sitting here on behalf of the authors, whether he wishes to speak now or later. [[Bence Tuzson: Thank you, Mr President.]] Later, thank you very much. No one came forward in writing, there is no one on the screen, and the Economic Committee has not set up a lecturer. Dear Parliament, The debate phase is closed and I give the floor on behalf of the authors to Mr Tuzson Bence, State Secretary.
u2022-11-21-232	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr David Heyy perfectly summarized the purpose of the law, so I would just like to say a brief word. It is a significant piece of legislation to ensure that Hungary is properly represented at this world exhibition. A world exhibition is rarely held which is a fully comprehensive exhibition, and the participation of Hungary is crucial for both economic and cultural reasons. That is why I ask the Honourable Parliament to support this bill, which simplifies the organisation of the world exhibition. I just want to draw attention to one thing. This current legislation also draws attention to the fact that Hungarian public procurement legislation and European public procurement legislation are not necessarily suitable for organising non-Hungary works. This is why it is necessary to simplify the rules on public procurement in this respect, which, by the way, remains within the framework of the Public Procurement Act. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would ask my fellow Members to support this motion. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-21-233	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Tuzson Bence. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws relating to the operation of the territorial administration, the real estate register and the territorial development will follow up and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal. Government referral T/1617. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, so I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee. [[18.40]]
u2022-11-21-234	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee discussed on 17 November 2022 the amendment of certain laws relating to the operation of the territorial administration, the real estate register and land development T/1617. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 27 votes in favour, 6 votes against and 4 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the bill before us is to cut red tape, reduce costs for citizens and businesses and further broaden the possibilities for electronic administration. An important element of the bill is the amendment to the data change management service introduced at the beginning of 2022 under the e-reporter name, which simplifies the change reporting of citizens' names, addresses and other data to utilities and the utility transcription process. The electricity and natural gas sector's accession has been practically complete and a significant number of district heating and water utilities have also been connected. At the same time, in order to provide citizens with the highest quality services, the aim is to connect all service providers to the e-Reporter, as this will allow anyone to use the simpler, faster online service, regardless of where they want to deal with public utility services in Hungary. The bill serves this purpose by requiring public utility service providers to join the e-Reporter from 1 January 2023 and electronic communications service providers from 1 July 2023. Citizens benefit from the availability of all utility and electronic communications services via the AVSZ. The usage is free, citizens can announce their data changes to all service providers at the same time, such as email address or name changes. In the event of a move, you can simply initiate utility transcription and user change with the relevant utility service providers. They can initiate administration using a secure electronic administration channel. The Legislative Committee's own amendment also contains substantive and technical amendments. The main amendments are as follows. The Tftv. 11. The addition of paragraph 1 (a) to sub-paragraph (a-g) in the performance of tasks related to spatial planning ensures the preparation and implementation of integrated territorial programmes which form the basis of operational programmes with a territorial approach, integrating them between the territorial development tasks of the county municipality and the Metropolitan Municipality. The task will be financed from the operational programme with a territorial approach. The technical amendments are the following, in addition to which it is necessary to clarify and clarify the role of the Minister for Territorial Development in Tftv.: it is appropriate to appoint the presidents of all the High Regional Development Councils as members of the National Regional Development Stakeholders' Forum. On the basis of an indication by the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, it is not recommended that the possibility of granting a payment discount should also cover the remission and reduction of the fine in view of the indirect legal protection function of the labour fine. The waiver and reduction of the fine would be explicitly contrary to the purpose of the regulation, in particular where the imposition of a labour fine is compulsory, and therefore the payment of a minor instalment is regulated instead of a payment discount. XLVIII of 1993 on mining By law, if the Mining Inspectorate deletes the mining site, the fact of the cancellation is transferred to the register and by a final decision, it will contact the real estate authority in order to delete the mining register from the real estate register. Therefore, if the application for the mining right for the deleted mining right has failed, the mining site should be deleted, which may affect a number of properties, and thus the implementation of the legal obligation creates a significant amount of payment by the Mining Inspectorate. On the basis of the above, it is appropriate to provide for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union to Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in particular Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. LXXXV of 1996 on the amendment of Act No 18 and on the administrative service fee for a certified copy of the deed. supplementing the law on the cancellation of mining sites. Dear House, In view of what has been said, I would like to ask you to vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you for listening.
u2022-11-21-235	Thank you very much, Congressman László Salacz. I will ask Mr István György, State Secretary, whether he wishes to speak now or later. [[Dr. István György: Later.]] Later. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. No one made a written statement to speak to their members. I do not see the candidate on the monitor now, so I will close the debate phase, and I will now give the floor if you wish to speak to Secretary of State István György.
u2022-11-21-236	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The metropolitan and county government offices, under the direction of the Prime Minister's Office, regularly review their tasks and powers and make proposals for more effective, rational delivery. The amendment is based on hundreds of proposals made by government agencies in spring 2022. The aim of the bill before us is to simplify and speed up administrative procedures for citizens and businesses as well as for public authorities. In this context, with the extension of electronic administration, rules on certain paper administration will be repealed from several legal acts. The government has been working for years to take measures to ease the lives of citizens. Several times, such an amendment package came before this House, and there were 138 amendments. This bill now proposes to amend 30 laws. Mr Salacz presented in detail the proposals concerning the substance of the legislative package. I would not like to repeat these now, but I would simply like to say to this House that the bill has been sent to the National Court of Justice, the Mansion, the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, the Energy and Public Works Regulatory Office, the National Media and Communications Authority and the Supervisory Authority for Regulated Activities. In fact, the majority of the requested bodies did not comment on their content, some made proposals merely containing codification and technical amendments. There were two proposals that could be considered meaningful. One of them, on behalf of the Supervisory Authority for Regulatory Activities, has already presented this from the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, where he commented on the reduction or remission of the fine, indicating that the legal objective of the fine would not be met if we were to support mitigation or remission, so that there is a partial payment discount in the TAB modification and that no reduction or remission would be achieved. After no amendments have been tabled, I cannot respond to them now, of course, but in the light of what has been said, I ask once again the Honourable Parliament to support and vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-11-21-237	Thank you very much, Mr. István György State Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. [[18.50]] We now have the Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws for the security of Hungary and the debate on the draft amendment. Government referral T/1620. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion, so I give the floor to MEP László Salacz, the rapporteur of the committee.
u2022-11-21-238	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 17 November 2022, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/1620 amending certain laws for the security of Hungary. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 27 votes in favour, 11 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, The proposal before us is a salad law, consisting mainly of law enforcement elements, which includes amendments to strengthen social security. During previous discussions on the proposal, these provisions on social matters were the main focus. The summarised amendment adopted by the Legislative Committee refines the scope of Article 2 of the Social Act. the changes to the provisions of Section 2 of this Annex. On the one hand, it clarifies the system of actors involved in the performance of social tasks and, on the other hand, it displays, in addition to responsibility, the skills and opportunities in the provision of tasks. In addition, the amendment submitted by the Legislative Committee complements the amendments necessary for the restructuring of the Honvéd Hospital, lays down the rules for voluntary over-service and voluntary over-work, including the amendments necessary to increase the membership of the Hungarian Academy of Arts, and adopts and clarifies the rules on educational supplies submitted as a proposal for a detailed debate. Codification amendments have been made in several places in the proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, During the discussions on the proposal, we have had plenty of opportunities to clash our positions, we have made a number of changes to the points at issue, so that we can put a more mature proposal to the vote. I urge you to support the adoption of this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-11-21-239	Thank you very much, Congressman László Salacz. Dear Parliament, A minority opinion was also expressed at the meeting of the Legislative Committee. To present this, I ask Gy. Congresswoman Erzsébet Németh.
u2022-11-21-240	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, The minority opinion of the Legislative Committee is T/1620. It was completely different from what was finally adopted by the majority of the committee. One is this issue of the amendment of the social law, which is ominous. The amendment made to the Committee has removed the responsibility of churches from this particular hierarchy. At the committee's meeting, it was expressed as a minority opinion that we still disagree with what the bill shows is that it is the individual who is really responsible for social care, and the Hungarian state is only at the end of that line. At the committee meeting, the following was said to the Secretary of State of Felkai, who is present, and I would now like to ask the representative of the government, the rapporteur, how he feels about the sentence of the Secretary of State at the committee meeting, because the main question was how the individual could move from health care to social care. The Secretary of State replied to our question that if the individual does not agree to be transferred to the social care system, then quite simply, if he does not do so, I will quote it literally: "If you do not do so, then you will remain there." In Hungarian, do you think that if someone doesn't agree to transfer to paid social care from health care, they can stay in the healthcare sector? As Vice-President Salacz, my fellow Member, said on the committee's part, these were precisely the points of debate that he spoke of most sharply. It was expressed as a minority opinion that we disagree that the transformation and dismembering of the Honvéd Hospital will be completed and done by the government in such a salad law. We also argued that the operation of the Hungarian Academy of Arts should be subject to completely new rules in such a summary amendment, rather than a normal debate at the plenary session of the Parliament, to discuss what we think about the Hungarian Academy of Arts. In points 60 and 63, a new regulation would be put in place for professional staff and law enforcement staff to introduce the so-called voluntary over-service. This was not mentioned in the original proposal. On behalf of the rapporteur, Mr Secretary of State said there that, since this also exists in the public service, it is therefore not a problem that it should be introduced now to armed law enforcement staff or professional staff. In our opinion, it is quite simply not possible to order voluntary overtime in a profession with such a close relationship. I think that this bill is bleeding from several wounds, as the opposition members of the committee have put it as a minority opinion, and I only hope that if there is a way to do so, the government will consider that this is indeed the best way to completely rewrite the part on social care and make fundamental changes in such a salad law in the three other cases that have already been mentioned. Thank you very much.
u2022-11-21-241	Thank you very much, Gy. Congresswoman Erzsébet Németh. Dear Parliament, I will ask Attila Philip to speak now or later. [[For signal:]] Later. Thank you. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Defence and Police Committee. No one's come forward in writing, I don't see anyone on the monitor, so I'm closing the debate phase. I give the floor to the author, Secretary of State Attila Philip.
u2022-11-21-242	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The bill before us is essentially a package of proposals to amend law for security and law enforcement purposes, which aims to ensure the social and physical security of the Hungarian people and our countrymen in the future, by means of a wide range of tools and objectives. This bill, a package of laws, is part of the amendment of social law. There has also been plenty of time to talk about this in the context of the general debate, so allow me, Madam President and honourable House, to briefly say this again, or the assumptions or doubts which, I see, are still around it, I shall try to disperse or disperse it. One of the things that came out as a minority opinion is that we put the individual first here. With regard to this amendment, the wording is that everyone is responsible for himself. Today, the Fundamental Law sets out more than that, where we say that everyone is responsible for himself and is obliged to contribute to the performance of public and community tasks according to his abilities and opportunities. Compared to this, the amendment of the social law will contain less, but this is not about talking about someone's social care for themselves, but about the fact that we are talking about the creation of social security. It is not about whether the municipality or the State would withdraw from this territory. [[19.00]] If someone reads the social law, they know that it's 2nd. After the amendment, there is also a 150-page law in which it is clearly laid down, and after this amendment it is clearly stated what the task of the municipality is and what the task of the state is. There's not a single paragraph in this. In recent years, the Hungarian state has provided additional resources for the social field. He did not recite himself, but sought one thing: cooperative ones who could hold hands on the ground and provide the best care for those who needed it. In this year's budget of the Hungarian state, the budget of this year, 1140 billion were earmarked for social, child welfare and child protection. This was HUF 325 billion in 2010. This amount is three and a half times that amount. This means that we are developing, providing more, but of course, because this area is always about problems, there is always room for additional resources. It will not be transformed because this has been fully stated in the social services section, as I have just said, in terms of both aid and services, we are fixing the rights and fixing the levels of supply in the same way. (The President's seat is Dóra Dúró, Vice-President of the Parliament.) I would like to emphasise one more here on the subject of the amendments. The amendment to the Child Protection Act now fixes the increase in the supply fee for foster parents by about 25 percent after the TAB modification. So I think that this is a joyful and good news for foster parents who are doing a sacrifice and strained work in child protection, and I think that this kind of increase in the price of supplies, which will eventually be able to get to the children entrusted to them because they can buy it, will, after all, result in an improvement in the standard of living of around 23,000 children in child protection. In view of this, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the law before us on the basis of what has been said above. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-21-243	Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain tax laws and the discussion of the draft amending proposal follow up. Government referral T/1614. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2022-11-21-244	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that T/1614 was discussed by the Legislative Committee at its meeting on 17 November 2022. the bill amending individual tax laws. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. It adopted it by 26 votes in favour, 8 against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill on the House's table is to simplify administration; it contains the tax amendments needed to harmonise EU legislation and to whiteen the economy. In addition, the proposal also proposes the necessary amendments which have become necessary due to changing sectoral legislation and issues arising from the application of the law. Simplifications of administration should be highlighted in the context of flat-rate taxation. After the introduction of the new kata, flat-rate taxation is the easiest form of taxation for self-employed people. More than 150,000 people have chosen this form of taxation. We want to simplify administration by reducing the number of returns and coordinating the payment of personal income tax and contributions, as well as social contribution tax, and by abolishing certain administrative restrictions. The transposition of the EU Directive on Corporate Tax Information Report, which requires companies with turnover exceeding EUR 750 million to disclose company tax information in a separate report, is of paramount importance in the field of harmonisation measures. It is proposed that immediate payment transactions submitted by means of a single entry solution or initiated by a payment request, which appear as a new transaction in cash flow, will be exempted from financial transaction duty. These new types of technical solutions allow instant transfers, like cash and credit cards, to be used comfortably, electronically, customer-friendlyly for shop and internet purchases and payment of invoices. These transfers are distinguished by the standard messages used to execute the transaction from the prompt transfers initiated in the traditional way, so the service providers involved in the transaction will know which transactions are covered by the exemption. According to the proposal, payments and other transactions which are the subject of the financial transaction fee for non-Hungarian markets will be exempted from the financial transaction levy in the future. This will enable one leg of the conversion of the transaction fee into a destination country, i.e. the provision of services to a non-resident abroad, to be free. The residence of an individual client shall be determined according to the actual place of business of the head office, taking into account the rules on personal income tax. In conclusion, the bill contains forward-looking provisions, and I therefore believe that the bill before us should be supported in light of what has been said. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-21-245	Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr. Izer Norbert, on behalf of the author. [[For signal:]] It indicates that it intends to respond to what has been said at the end. Then the national expo will not take place here, and the speeches will follow. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Economic Committee. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no signal.]] Since I do not see a candidate, the debate is closed. Then I will ask the rapporteur if he would like to take the opportunity to speak now. [[Izer Norbert: No, thank you.]] Secretary of State says he doesn't want to. I therefore inform my fellow Members that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's report on the significance of the Golden Bull of 1222 and on the Golden Bull Day is now under discussion. Presentation by representatives of Máté Kocsis, Fidesz, István Simicskó, KDNP, Csaba Hende, Fidesz, Imre Vejkey, KDNP, Illés Boglárka, Fidesz, and Judit Varga, Fidesz, T/1778. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Csaba Hende, to speak at the beginning of the debate. [[For signal:]] Congressman says you don't want to. I ask you, on behalf of the government, you wish to speak, Mr Répássy, Secretary of State. [[For signal:]] He's taking the opportunity to speak. Before I give the floor to the Secretary of State, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a total period of 15 minutes is at your disposal for speaking in this debate. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-11-21-246	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I would just like to confirm very briefly that the Government supports the adoption of the bill. Thank you.
u2022-11-21-247	Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. Congressman Csaba Hende has applied for a speech. Here you go.
u2022-11-21-248	I'd like to make a presentation.
u2022-11-21-249	Do you want to answer at the end? [[Csaba Hende: Yes.]] All right. As no one has applied for a speech, the debate is closed. The rapporteur indicated that he wished to reply, so I give the floor to Mr Csaba Hende. Here you go. [[19.10]]
u2022-11-21-250	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I am extremely pleased that there was full agreement on our bill during the debate, and the legitimate national pride we feel over the undisputed historical fact that, just 800 years ago, Hungary, the Hungarian state at that time, entered a quality level of the rule of law and constitutionality that made our country one of the most prominent countries in Europe at that time. In this respect, it is particularly good to think about this when many people today and often lecture Hungary on the rule of law issues, including states that, in the case of the issue of the Golden Bull, were not created by 200 years, but 700 years, but I say this in parentheses. I feel it is very important that we will be able to commemorate every year on April 24th, St. George's Day, which is the day of spring, the day of reunion, the birth of the Golden Bull on the historic day of its publication. Thank you once again for the support of all the groups and all the Members who spoke, and I would like you to support this proposal unanimously in the final vote tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-21-251	Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws on the subject of judicial matters and the discussion of the summary amendment follow. Government referral T/1621. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congresswoman Boglárka Illés, representing the committee, within a 15-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2022-11-21-252	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee discussed on 17 November 2022 the T/1621 amending certain laws on judicial matters. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 28 votes in favour, 6 votes against and 5 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us deals with the protection of industrial rights, thus protecting intellectual property, the protection of copyright, the functioning of notaries and the procedures they have implemented, thus affecting their responsibilities, fair market behaviour, digitalisation conditions, the legacy procedure and, last but not least, the obligations relating to child maintenance. The amendments contained in the proposal address, on the one hand, the harmonisation provisions and, on the other, the issues raised in the application of the law. The Legislative Committee adopted an amendment to the proposal, which included additions to linguistic and technical clarifications. I would like to point out from the proposed amendment, which has been adopted, the objections to bias that will be presented in disciplinary proceedings. I point out that, in recent years, their number has increased dramatically on the basis of feedback from law enforcement, and this justified the amendment. On the basis of the amendment, the detailed rules concerning the submission, assessment and impact of the objection of bias on the ongoing disciplinary procedure are amended to avoid any delay due to unfounded biases. In view of the fact that I could argue in favour of the proposal within the framework of the speaker's speech on the proposal concerned, not repeating what was said at the time, I encourage you to support the proposal only by moving forward in the drafting of the proposal. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-21-253	I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[Dr. Répássy on Róbert's signal:]] Mr Répássy Róbert, State Secretary, points out that he wishes to take advantage of this opportunity. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2022-11-21-254	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, Firstly, allow me to thank Members for their meaningful involvement in the debate on the bill. During the debate, comments and criticism of the bill are always made, so I would like to respond to them in the following areas. During the general debate on the proposal, Mr László Sebian-Petrovszki objected to the increase in the concentration threshold in the context of the amendment of the Competition Act, and he suspected an ulterior motive behind the amendment, but this is not the case. The Hungarian Competition Authority has finite human resources, but it also carries out other priority investigations in addition to the examination of concentrations, such as restrictive agreements and abuse of dominant positions. In order to make the most efficient use of available resources, all EU competition authorities, including the GVH, have the opportunity to set priorities to allocate their available resources in the most efficient way. This is the legislative aspect of the amendment. On the pragmatic side, it should be noted that the concentration thresholds were set in part in 2005 and in part in 2017, and although the current threshold and the raised threshold may appear to be high in the lay eye, the concentrations having a substantial impact on competition on the market at national level are typically above this threshold. Mr Sándor Szabó objected to the frequency of amendments to the IPR rules, but also to the fact that the bill addresses certain issues related to an amendment in 2011. It can be pointed out that the reason for the frequent change in IPR legislation stems from the nature of the area of law itself, since the balance between the exclusive rights of right holders and access to society requires continuous work; on the other hand, the area of law is strongly defined by international and EU law. As regards the current proposal for an amendment to the 2011 amendment, it is important to point out that initiatives relating to registration procedures typically come to our portfolio either from the National Intellectual Property Office or from a professional organisation. This was done in the summer of 2022, so it could be presented to the Parliament at the earliest time in the autumn of 2022, so in this session. Several comments were made in the general debate concerning the law on judicial enforcement. I would like to draw the attention of Mr László Sebian-Petrovszki that the Government has taken a number of extraordinary measures, including measures of a financial and social nature, which together have been able to support citizens and their families in a difficult situation as a result of an emergency. It is also important to emphasise that, in the last two years, the government has, almost continuously, regulated enforcement procedures in a way that is more favourable to debtors, by way of derogation from legal rules. In addition, the bill already contained a number of proposals for amendments which were favourable to debtors at the time of its submission. For example, after the amendment, only the amount of the child maintenance claim and certain civil rights claims may be deducted from payments made by the pension body not on a monthly basis and not on a monthly basis. In addition, the bill already included, at the time of its submission, the amendment that all compensation annuities would be exempt from prohibition. Given the fact that the Vht. the minimum amount of non-execution included by the amendment of the law is very low, the amount which is exempt from enforcement is set at HUF 60,000. In addition to this amendment, the limit above which income can be barred is also increased. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát said that the government should not be on the side of the banks, not the executives, and on the other hand he suggested that unpaid child support be paid by the State. I would like to draw the Member's attention to the fact that banks are seeking enforcement in less than 10 percent of the enforcement procedures, i.e. 90 percent of claims are made up of other debts of a private nature, mainly. Final and enforceable judicial decisions should be able to enforce, which is of particular importance for legal certainty. With regard to the recovery of child maintenance claims, it can be pointed out that if the child maintenance claim is implemented, it is out of order and takes precedence in all respects. [[19.20]] As from 1 January 2022, the provision is made that if any amount is received during the implementation, the payment of the child maintenance claim will have absolute priority, i.e. the costs of implementation will not be preceded. In addition, the court may issue a restraining order against the debtor for alimony on the basis of an interim measure order. If, in the course of judicial execution, the child maintenance claim cannot be recovered because, for example, the debtor is unaccounted for, the holder of the child maintenance fee may request the advance of the child maintenance premium by the State. The amounts advanced by the State shall be recovered from the debtor by the State tax and customs authorities. With regard to the amending intention of the Legislative Committee, it can be pointed out that its part concerning the amendment of the implementing law would complement the bill with further proposals for amendments favourable to debtors. Thus, the bill would be complemented by rules that broaden the possibility of voluntary performance and encourage debtors to comply voluntarily by amending the arrangements for payment of instalments. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the amending proposal also states that in the case of debts not exceeding HUF 500 000, once the property has been loaded with enforcement rights, the executioner cannot take action to sell it. In this way, it will be avoided that real estate can be auctioned even in order to recover an invoice or a parking surcharge. The Legislative Committee's proposed amendment contains more precise and corrective proposals. In conclusion, let me highlight the most important changes in the proposal to be voted on. In the future, the debtor could request a payment in instalments even if the principal amount of all his debts does not exceed HUF 2 million compared to the current HUF 500 thousand, or even if he has a mortgage on his residential property, he may request payment in instalments even if his debt does not exceed HUF 3 million against the current HUF 1 million. The payment of the instalments could be requested by natural persons for a maximum of one year against the six months in force. I hope that you can all agree with the line of these amendments, regardless of the party position, so I ask you to ensure their support in the final vote on the proposal. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-11-21-255	I would like to inform the Secretary of State that you will have seven minutes to say a possible closing word. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. No two-minute comments are possible. [[No one's reporting.]] As no one has applied for a speech, the debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if you'd like to answer. [[Dr. Répássy Robert: No, thank you.]] Since there is nothing to do, it indicates, as appropriate, that you do not wish to respond. I would like to inform my fellow Members that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of the laws on the publication of certain international treaties for judicial cooperation and the discussion of the summary amendment follow. The government referral is T/1609. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey. Here you go.
u2022-11-21-256	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee discussed on 17 November 2022 the T/1609 amending the laws on the publication of certain international treaties on judicial cooperation. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 29 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 2 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill amends the legislation declaring three Hague Conventions. The first is the Decree-Law No 14 of 1986 on the civil rights aspects of child abduction in the Hague on 25 October 1980, which adds a new paragraph. Therefore, Annex I to the Decree-Law contains a list of States and the date of entry into force for which the declaration of accession to the Convention was deposited before 14 October 2014 pursuant to Article 38 (4) of the Convention. Pursuant to Article 8 of the Treaty, the accession of States to the Convention will only apply in relation to the Contracting States which have declared their acceptance of accession. Hungary has accepted the accession of a number of States since its accession to the Convention. Declarations of acceptance of accessions are set out in Act L of 2005 on the procedure for international treaties. Paragraph 1 (d) requires the publication of legislation to be included. Since no amendments were made to the declaring act at the time of the adoption of the accessions, the proposal fills this gap. On 14 October 2014, the Court of Justice of the European Union declared Article 1.13 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Opinion No 1 on the adoption by third States of accession to the Hague Convention on child abduction falls within the exclusive external competence of the EU. However, in view of the fact that only States can be party to the Convention, the EU itself is not, but rather the adoption of the accession of third States by a decision of the Council of the European Union authorising and obliging Member States to make a declaration of accession by doing so on behalf of the EU. Given the exclusive competence of the European Union, it would be expressly contrary to Union law if a Member State adopted an internal act with regard to the adoption of the accession of a third State. Therefore, the annex to the proposed Decree-Law of Declaration contains only the accessions adopted before 14 October 2014. The second amended act is the CXVI of 2004 on the publication of the Convention on the taking of evidence in civil and commercial matters abroad in the Hague on 17 March 1970. Law. Article 3 § 2 contains the English language text of the Hungarian reservations and declarations made. Article 10 of the NS Law. In accordance with Article 2 (2) of the Treaty, if the authentic text of the contract or the authentic text of the contract and the reservations and declarations to the Treaty are written exclusively in a foreign language, the publication act contains their text in one of the authentic languages and in an official Hungarian translation. The authentic language of the Hague Convention for the taking of evidence is French and English, so the proposal complements the preaching law with the English text of the declarations. A Hungarian declaration to Article 23 of the Hague Convention on private international law was made by Article XXVIII of 2017 on private international law. Law 131. In accordance with the provisions of Article 4 (1) of the Treaty, it has been amended. Following the adoption of the Act on Private International Law, the notification to the depositary of the Convention, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Netherlands, has failed to amend the declaration. Once the proposal has been adopted, the depositary shall be notified. Pursuant to Article 39 of the Hague Convention for the taking of evidence, the accession of States to the Convention will only apply in relation to the Contracting States which have declared acceptance of accession. Since Hungary's accession to the Convention, it has accepted the accession of a number of States and the declaration of acceptance of accession has been adopted in accordance with Article 10. Paragraph 1 (d) requires the publication of legislation to be included. Since no amendments were made to the declaring act at the time of the adoption of the accessions, the proposal fills this gap. Annex I to the Advertising Act contains a list of States and the date of their entry into force for which the declaration of acceptance of their accession has been deposited until the entry into force of the proposal. [[19.30]] 4/A. § 2 contains a list of States whose recent accession was adopted by Hungary on the basis of the proposal. The third proposal complements the XXXVI of 2005 on the announcement of the Convention of 15 November 1965 on the service of judicial and non-judicial documents in civil and commercial matters in the Hague and amending certain laws governing international service. Act by the English text of the Hungarian reservations and declarations made to the Convention. The authentic language of the Hague Service Convention is French and English, and it is therefore necessary to publish the English language text of the Hungarian reservations and declarations. Nmj made a Hungarian declaration to Article 5 (3) of the Hague Service Convention. Act 132. §2 was substantially amended. The Nmj. Following the adoption of a law, the notification to the depositary of the Convention, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Netherlands, of the amendment of the declaration was omitted. Once the proposal has been adopted, the depositary shall be notified. No amendments were tabled to the bill in question, nor did the Committee on Foreign Affairs designated for a detailed debate intend to make further amendments. The Legislative Committee has adopted an amendment to the proposal, which contains text-focusing and codification technical amendments. As has been said, I call on this House to vote in favour of this proposal and thank you for listening. Thank you, Madam President.
u2022-11-21-257	Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[For signal:]] Mr. Secretary of State indicates you're taking the opportunity. I give the floor to Secretary Robert Répássy.
u2022-11-21-258	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Parliament, T/1609 amending the laws on the publication of international treaties on judicial cooperation Bill No.3 seeks to amend the laws on the publication of certain international treaties on international civil justice cooperation in order to comply with Act L of 2005 on the procedure for international treaties. In the context of the bill, neither the general nor the detailed debate raised any substantive comments or objections. The Legislative Committee's amendment also contains only codification and text-focusing improvements. In view of all this, I would ask you to support the bill and the amendment by voting in favour. Thank you very much.
u2022-11-21-259	Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Committee on Foreign Affairs. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] As no one has applied for a speech, the debate is closed. [[For signal:]] Mr Secretary of State indicated that he did not wish to reply, as no statement was made. I would like to inform my fellow Members that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the resolution and resolution of the consequences of the armed conflict in the neighbouring country and of the humanitarian disaster in Hungary follow up and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal. The government referral is T/1791. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2022-11-21-260	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee discussed on 17 November 2022 the T/1791 on the resolution and resolution of the consequences of the armed conflict and humanitarian disaster in Hungary in neighbouring countries. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 27 votes in favour, 12 votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the armed conflict and humanitarian disaster in Ukraine, and in order to counter and deal with their consequences in Hungary, the Government of Hungary is the Government of 180/2022. [[V. 24.]] an emergency has been declared by a government decree throughout the country. On the resolution of the consequences of the armed conflict or humanitarian disaster in Hungary in the neighbouring country in 2022, Annex VI. Law No. 2 In Article 53 (1) and (2) of the Fundamental Law, the National Assembly authorised the Government to apply the Government Decrees pursuant to Article 53 (1) and (2) of the Fundamental Law in the event of an emergency, in accordance with Article VI of the 2022 Act. Renewal of law until the expiry of law. Annex VI to the EEA Agreement shall be replaced by the text set out in the Annex to this Regulation. The Act expired on 1 November 2022. The ninth amendment to the Fundamental Law of Hungary, which came into force on 1 November 2022, transforms the rules of the Fundamental Law on a specific legal order, such as emergency rules, on a conceptual basis. The armed conflict or humanitarian disaster in Ukraine and their consequences in Hungary have not changed in recent years, so the new constitutional rules now state that the government is in view of the armed conflict and humanitarian disaster in Ukraine, and in order to prevent and deal with their consequences in Hungary, 424/2022 on the announcement of an emergency and certain emergency rules. [[X. 28.]] a new emergency has been declared by a government decree with the entry into force of 1 November 2022. The emergency can be declared for 30 days under the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law. Under the mandate of the Parliament, the government may extend the emergency if the circumstances giving rise to the announcement of an emergency persist. The purpose of the bill before us is to approve 425/2022. [[X. 28.]] a government decree by which the Government re-introduces 107 government regulations issued during previous emergencies and still in force and authorises the Government to extend the emergency situation in accordance with Article 51 (3) of the Fundamental Law until the expiry of the bill. The Legislative Committee's own amendment also contains substantive and technical amendments. The amendment clarifies the wording of the provision granting the authorisation, subject to the provisions of the Law on Legislation, in order to make it clear from the date on which the Government can maintain the scope of the Government Decree declaring an emergency in the light of the duration of the mandate. In line with the justification of the bill, the text makes clear the legal need that the Government Decrees on the entry into force of emergency regulations and emergency measures 425/202. [[X. 28.]] the effects of the expiry of government decrees have not been exercised and continue to apply. Dear House, In view of what has been said, I would like to ask you to vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you for the floor, Madam President.
u2022-11-21-261	Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State Répássy indicates that you are taking advantage of this opportunity. I give the floor to the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2022-11-21-262	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Parliament, Article 51 of the Fundamental Law clearly states, and I quote, that the government may declare an emergency in the event of an armed conflict, a war situation or a humanitarian disaster in a neighbouring country, as well as a serious event endangering life and property security, in particular in the event of an elemental disaster or industrial disaster, and in order to prevent the consequences thereof. The option under the Fundamental Law is also a responsibility, and the government is responsible for ensuring the security of the country in the event of special situations and managing the consequences of special situations. [[19.40]] Hungary's immediate neighbour, Ukraine, has been at war for almost a year. Due to the closeness of the war, serious and worrying news is also coming from our allies. The humanitarian and economic effects of the war have become part of our daily lives, against which the government is obliged to act by all means. Dear House, Maintaining a special legal order is a special tool in the hands of the government to ensure the protection of the safety, livelihood and workplace of Hungarian people without delay. The goal of the government is not to circumvent Parliament by maintaining an emergency, as opposition representatives often say. The special legal order ensures that the government is able to act effectively and quickly in any unexpected event in order to deal with and prevent emergency incidents. In my view, in the course of the debate on the bill, there was no argument that doubted the need to maintain a special legal order, and I therefore respectfully ask you to support this bill and, as introduced by the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law, now by a two-thirds majority, in accordance with Article 51 (4) of the Fundamental Law, to ensure that the duration of the emergency can be extended by the Government. Thank you for your attention.
u2022-11-21-263	Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. No two-minute comments are possible. [[There's no candidate.]] Since no one has made comments, the debate is closed. Secretary of State, I don't suppose you'd like to answer. [[For signal:]] He indicated that he did not wish to, so I would inform my fellow Members that the decisions would take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today, and now we are going to take the floor after the agenda. After the agenda, Congressman Ferenc Varga of the Jobbik Group has applied for a speech: "How long?" It's an address. I'll give you the floor in five minutes. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-11-21-264	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, In my first speech, I made you a promise that I would be the government's conscience on Roma matters, and now I would like to fulfill this promise and draw attention to something that no one has done within the walls of Parliament so far. As a responsible Member of Parliament, I am well aware that not all provocations should sit up, and I am also aware that if I raise too many rumors about what some people are doing, I will set the stage for them. But now I feel that they have crossed a line; a line that, if the governing parties do not move, will lead to serious and irreversible consequences. Let's conclude right at the beginning of my speech that every possible form of crime and crime is condemned regardless of origin, and that anyone who commits a crime in Hungary today must comply with the current legislation, and no one can escape it. You know, there is a party here, the Hungarian Movement, whose policy on gypsy does not serve any other purpose, but that Hungarian and Hungarian people are being used against each other for political capital. They're the tax collectors of hate today. The solution to the problem is not that self-proclaimed law enforcement marching on fear, but that you raise police numbers and take public announcements seriously. Let's start by, say, cutting off designer drug distributors from the settlements, with a lot of young people losing their lives because of their activities. I get complaints too, and I get complaints that the police are not effective enough many times, but not because they don't want to, not because the police are lazy, but because there are few. They're shorthanded because they don't have a decent salary, and you've denied them the possibility of early retirement. There are few, and the fewer there are, the worse public safety will be. Until you change that, there will be people who want to take the law into their own hands. But I repeat once again: the solution is not that the members of the Hungarian self-defense movement are marching, enjoying their frustration in an entire Gypsy colony. The solution is not to create fear in hundreds of innocent gypsies, thus deepening the trench between the two social groups. I reject as strongly as possible the incitement of hatred for political gain. I condemn the openly anti-Gypsy, inciting Gypsy behaviour, and I will fight against all possible means of law. I've been sitting on this chair for six months, but during these six months, I've heard more gypsies from this party than sensible suggestions, and they're doing it in the House where real patriots sat before us and built this country, regardless of nationality. In my first speech, I also said that there is a man sitting among you, Attila Stojka, the successor of Flórian Farkas, who, with the key to catching up, represents the issue of domestic Gypsy. I asked him to influence you, force you to do something positive in this case, but Attila Stojka is silent and silently watching you, to me, cooperate more and more clearly with those who wish to profit politically in the misery of our own people. You know, the Jobbik is the party I'm currently sitting in, on this issue, on the same path as our country is now on. In the last decade, however, they have experienced that this path is faulty, that it does not bring order or peace between the parties. The solution in education is to set an example, to settle the wages of uniforms in the field of order, and on the part of the gypsy, to say that we are separated from any crime. And on the part of society, the solution is a helping hand. I hope the government will give you a helping hand, and you won't stand behind the tax collectors of hate. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I am not in the habit of making calls to you, but if you really care about Hungarian gypsyism, then I urge you to do something about the marches of the tax collectors of hatred and to take action to increase the wages of police officers. If you do not do this, then I suspect that Hungarian Gypsy is just a tool for you, a tool that you can use in poverty to win elections and, if necessary, to be a perfect enemy image in the eyes of the majority society, in the midst of an economic and social crisis caused by you. Thank you for listening.
u2022-11-21-265	An independent Member, Mr Peter, also applied for a post-meeting speech. I'll give you the floor in five minutes. Here you go.
u2022-11-21-266	Thank you for the floor. Fellow Members, honestly, do you really think you're stupid? ! I do not know how long we have heard from you that Hungarian families should be happy, but be extremely grateful, because the average Hungarian family is currently receiving 180 thousand forints a month to pay for the increased amount of rent. Look, I go around the country, I meet a lot of people, but I can't even find a family that says thank you very much, the money's here. I couldn't find one, and they need it, but not by saying it on the radio, but by arriving at the account. He's not coming! Colleagues, it's over! You lied to the Hungarians on 3 April, and now you're busted, and it turns out the king is naked. Turns out there's no overhead cuts, there's no monthly subsidies of HUF 180,000, instead there's a brutal gas price increase, electricity price increase, food price increases, austerity. You're coming here saying, "Oh, well, war inflation is responsible for everything." Of course, of course. In fact, we have war inflation in Hungary, but you know this is not because of the Russian-Ukrainian war, but because of the Orbán-Brussels war, which has been going on for 12 years, and we are losing so much that the European Union is now holding back thousands of billions of forints from Hungary because of your greed; thousands of billions of forints, of which we should be dealing with the crisis a long time ago. [[19.50]] The German government is helping the Germans with €65 billion, with increased family allowances, housing support and a contribution from the USSR. And you are making a law about the fact that at these times the Hungarian state has no obligation to help the poor? ! Well, what kind of crisis management is that, aren't you ashamed? ! In fact, not only do they not help the poor, but they also profit from them. When someone goes into the store and buys the thousand-forint bread, or goes into the post office if there's any more, and pays the yellow check, you collect the 27-percent VAT from the cheapest, the more expensive life is, the more. This year alone, you have collected more than a thousand billion forints of VAT from the population thanks to increased prices. That's a lot of winning, fellow Members. Business is going well, isn't it, in other people's misery? ! Therefore, they do not handle the crisis, they profit from the Hungarians and show off: Soros is to blame, Brussels is to blame, war is to blame, the penalty is to blame. Let me ask you, is there no other country involved in the war? Is Poland, Slovakia, Romania not affected by the war? Of course it does, but our food is the most expensive, the value of the money is getting worse, we feed the good people with chicken at official prices, and we don't even have sugar on the shelves of the shops; soon there won't be any eggs or potatoes. Yes, fellow Members, there is a crisis everywhere, but it is managed elsewhere by the government, and it is caused by us. Elsewhere, the government is fighting the crisis with EU money, and you are fighting the EU with Hungarian money; it doesn't matter. They're launching a national consultation of eight billion-dollar billboard campaigns, spewing all kinds of silly bomb posters around the country to stop Brussels? ! But when it comes to teachers' wage increases, does Gergely Gulyás have the guts to say to the camera that there will be money for a raise when Brussels gives him the credit? ! It was very interesting when it came to the Prime Minister's wage increase, when Orbán's salary had to be doubled, when the State Secretarys and Ministers were given a wage increase of HUF 800 000, they did not wait for Brussels money, it went from domestic sources, did they not? ! Well, you guys are gonna go with the stinky... so over there, fellow Members, over there! And, yes, I could demand that you let go of the VAT and the system charges to make the rent cheaper. I could demand that the Ripper's no-good billionaires be taxed to death. I could demand that you give the families the 180,000 forints you're talking about a month in cash. The only thing is, fellow Members, that I know you as bad money, and I know that everything is going down on you, and I know that you are unable to allow it in anything, and you are unable to do so. So from now on, there is actually one thing to demand here, but it is the duty of dog to do it to all opposition representatives: Parliament should disband itself and have a new election in Hungary, now in the possession of the truth. The People's Party Movement has submitted the necessary proposal to the Parliament, you have one task to vote for the country, if that means anything to you. I'll stay on the side of the people.
u2022-11-21-267	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I thank you for your work, the Parliament will resume its meeting at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed.
