u2022-11-22-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 16th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that Mr Attila Gelencsér and Mr Dániel Z. Karpát will be here to help me. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mr Bernadett, Member of the LMP Group, asked for a green turn, but the Government does the opposite. You have the floor.
u2022-11-22-1	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In recent weeks, we have witnessed a small government crisis, when it took Fidesz always so confident five days to figure out what he would do with a minister's resignation. The governing party is obviously pretending nothing happened, nothing to see here. As one of the top performances of this, Viktor Orbán himself spoke in his radio interview on Friday about the need to reshape because after the election he did not expect the energy prices to remain persistently high. If that was the case, he was probably alone all over the world. We know that László Palkovics' resignation was greatly contributed to his serious energy policy debates. For example, he has said in recent times that the period of cheap fossil energy is over and that Hungary needs a completely new energy strategy, for example, wind energy should not be banned. And now he's not a minister. Nor is Dávid Vitézy no longer a State Secretary, who may have been the only representative of the development of public transport in the government against the automobile lobby. Gergely Gulyás himself recently admitted that Hungary is particularly affected by the current crisis, and one of the highest inflation rates in the EU is because we are particularly exposed to fossil energy and to Russian fossil energy within it. However, if the crisis is caused by energy dependence, the solution is energy independence, i.e. a break from fossil energy. There is no other way to do this in Hungary, but to promote greening, renewables, energy efficiency of buildings and public transport. Unfortunately, the last few weeks have shown that the government wants the exact opposite; green thinking has not yet been able to accuse them, but we have managed to move in the worse direction. While a few weeks ago, Viktor Orbán himself spoke about the fact that there was a dispute within the government about wind energy, the last time he explained that the most expensive energy produced in Hungary was green energy. Instead of allowing wind power, the grid feed was suspended in the area of solar energy already subject to a product charge. Instead of strengthening public transport, they have achieved a brilliance to record domestic fuel consumption during the energy crisis. And the current government transformation has clearly demonstrated that despite always confident communication, there is serious chaos within Fidesen in energy policy. Yet, we can conclude two things from the events of the last few days. On the one hand, the government's insistence on Russian fossil energy and its opposition to renewables is difficult to explain, even within the government and within the party, causing disagreements and disputes. But László Palkovics' departure also proves that these debates will be won by Viktor Orbán, and he will not compromise on this issue. So we can't expect you to lose these debates within Fidesen. However, the government is not preparing the country for the challenges of the future, but is trying to cement and strengthen the decisions of the past, because it knows precisely that if it were to acknowledge that the only way is to turn green, then the question would be why in the last 12 years they have done the exact opposite. But they can't win this debate nationwide, because everyone but you can see that if wind power plants had been built here in the last ten years, there would be solar panels on top of the houses, and all residential buildings would be isolated and much larger rates of community transport, the problem would be much smaller now. Viktor Orbán and his government are stuck in the past, and he can also force the Fidesz to stick to the past, but the country cannot be forced to do so. Thank you for your attention. [[Máté Kanász-Nagy applauds.]]
u2022-11-22-2	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Zsófia Koncz responds to what has been said. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2022-11-22-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and However, I would like to ask you, on the minimum courtesy, to thank you if you would allow Minister-designate Csaba Lantos to express his ideas on energy and green policy, by the way. I can promise you that this will happen soon, and the factions will have the opportunity to ask questions. So we would like to ask that you let him do so, in any case, before there are different conclusions drawn here, virtually without any concept being presented. As Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has repeatedly said, national governments are being created to try to understand the challenges of the next four years, and because of the war and the energy prices with sanctions, it has become clear that energy security and energy prices will be a key issue. We have talked about this several times here in Parliament, however, that when the war broke out on 24 February, it is true that energy prices went up, but then the market calmed down, and in March in Versailles the Heads of State and Government decided that there would be no sanctions for the energy sector. Then there were elections here in Hungary, and at the end of May the European Union reached the point that there would be sanctions for the energy sector, and then the oil embargo came, and then the gas embargo was on the agenda. From then on, energy prices were virtually out of control. So, to put it mildly, until May, it was not possible to see the European Union launch such a serious sanctions policy for the energy sector. I think that these facts and these different price changes should be taken into account when one speaks on this subject. Moreover, it is not true, and I have also said this repeatedly, that we have not made any efforts in terms of energy diversification over the past period. There are a lot of facts that we can tell you. We were talking about interconnectors. This is a very important thing that we are practically linked to six countries, and gas can come from virtually six countries; that was two in 2010. This means energy diversification in all aspects. The fact that we had a virtually long-term contract with a Western partner from the Krk LNG terminal was all in order to obtain energy from as many places as possible. It is also a very big thing that this year practically our high-voltage power grid has been connected seven times from seven neighbouring countries. They're all for this. I think our goal is clearly to get gas and electricity from as many places as possible in this case. It is also important that the gas reservoirs were bought back, before 2010 they were sold by the MSZP-SZDSZ governments, which we were able to buy back. They even reported us back then. So I think that on the left, it has not always been clear what you want as a national strategic issue in terms of gas and electricity. It is also a big thing that now our natural gas reservoirs have 86 per cent charge and 54 per cent annual consumption ratio, which is 26 per cent higher than the European gas storage capacity average. Here, the government's green policy is criticized. There's a lot we can tell you in comparison. Hungary was the first of the Member States of the European Union to ratify, for example, the Paris Agreement, and then to deposit its document in the UN headquarters in New York. First of all, we recorded at the legal level that we would like to achieve full climate neutrality by 2050. We have also talked about the ninth best value in CO2 emissions per capita within the European Union. [[9.10]] I think these are huge things. I said these figures yesterday, but I would like to reiterate now that according to the global research carried out by KPMG, which examined 32 countries, Hungary has reduced its CO2 emissions to 34% since 1990, based on 103 indicators. In summary, Hungary is the 13th place in measures to reduce CO2 emissions, while the performance of the Hungarian economy and the Hungarian industry has continuously improved and increased. I think it is very important that we are committed to the development of the Hungarian economy, of industry, while maintaining jobs, while achieving our climate policy objectives, and community transport is also playing a very important role. We thank the Congresswoman and the Group very much for their commitment to this issue. We're doing the same, and we're asking you to wait for the hearings. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-22-4	I thank the Secretary of State for her reply. Dear Parliament, Speaking before the agenda, Mr.Előd Novák, Deputy Head of Group of the Group of the Hungarian Group, asked for the most important tasks to be done for Hungarian workers. You have the floor.
u2022-11-22-5	Dear Parliament, Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In recent years, Viktor Orbán has often talked about a work-based society, but let us remember the leak of WikiLeaksen's speech to foreign diplomats: not what he says, but what he does. Unfortunately, we must conclude that the same is the case in this area, which is of particular importance for the nation. Of course, let's be fair, for the last 32 years, the situation of Hungarian workers is not appropriate, because Fidesz and Balliberal governments have served the interests of multinational companies in recent decades. According to the view of the Hungarian Movement, there are burning tasks for Hungarian workers in three areas. First of all, our country continues to be a host in terms of salaries in Europe, and today, when there is an inflation and an energy crisis, salaries are becoming even more worthless. On the other hand, in many places working conditions are poor, workers are overworked. No wonder over the decades, many people suffer health and emotionally. Finally, over the last 12 years, trade union rights have been cut off, and employee representation is virtually impossible, so that a Hungarian employee has no place to turn if there is a legal disadvantage. And you have added to all of this in recent years by discriminating unpopulated workers in the Covid dictatorship. They have been dismissed in many places, so we demand their compensation, on which we will also submit a proposal for a decision in their interest. In recent months, the labour market has been inundated by migrant workers from the third world, because during the summer the government has allowed them to come without a work permit, and the multinationals have started to replace the Hungarian workforce systematically and can do so with the support of the Hungarian government. Unfortunately, the event of the last few days is a planned amendment to the Labour Code, which has been said by one of the trade union leaders close to us, who are working with us, to take a step forward in the exploitation of workers. Indeed, it is possible, according to the draft, that no day off may be provided for by the worker when he would like to take it out when he would like to take it. In addition, workers who have changed their health status could be dismissed without severance pay. These facts are outrageous, and they actually show how much Fidesz's so-called work-based society is worth, although we have been talking more about a vaccination-based society since the Covid dictatorship. In any case, the service of multinationals and global capital, the service of membership in the new world order, is characterized by the operation of the government and therefore the evisceration of workers for the benefit of the greatest possible profit. As László Parragh pointed out and admitted that Hungary's strength lies in cheap labour. Our Homeland Movement, on the other hand, offers a very different path. We want a country where the Hungarian worker is more important. To this end, a stable wage increase is needed. I would like to highlight three main areas here. Multis must be persuaded to pay the same wages for the same job as a Hungarian worker, say, in the parent company in Germany, because the Hungarian worker's work is also worth the same if he does the same job. Multis have the money to raise wages, all it takes is political will to achieve that. Of course, anyone who expects this step from the Union is mistaken, or he is the deceptive one. On the other hand, SMEs are the most important, and they account for about 70% of jobs. In their case, however, even if they wanted to, they could not raise wages because they were subject to enormous taxes. In their case, therefore, a new tax policy of Hungarian interest is needed. Finally, we also need to talk about the situation of public companies. The state has a huge task here. We need serious restructuring. Instead of overpaid bureaucratic waterheads, resources should be freed and this would allow wage increases in this sector as well. I would also like to give a long list of the basics of the Viradat program of the Hungarian Movement, which are also regularly pressed by János Lantos, the head of the labour cabinet of our country. But let us agree on one thing: this is a national issue that affects Hungary as a whole. There are some 4.7 million workers working here, and they have families, so I ask that this issue of national strategy be finally examined without the interests of the multinationals. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-11-22-6	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr János Fónagy wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2022-11-22-7	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We certainly agree with the two elements of the speech before the agenda. One is that this is perhaps the most important issue of the partnership, and the other is that it requires continuous maintenance, continuous attention, continuous government activity. Allow me to make so many private remarks that my 40-year stay and my experience in the northern industrial region confirm in the previous sentences, so I must be absolutely right about this to my fellow Member. At the same time, I warn everyone that, in addition to the existing processes, the demagogic soil of demagogics should be kept to a minimum. In the last 12 years, the Hungarian government has paid particular attention to jobs, the work-based society you mentioned. Every opinion poll, every sociological experience, every social policy study comes to the conclusion that Hungarian society is most afraid of job losses, insecurity of livelihoods and insecurity because of its bad historical experience, the bad historical experience of the past. Interestingly and remarkablely, during Covid, the epidemic did not prevent this basic social position, and, in fact, now that there is war at our borders, we are most afraid of the consequences of losing the basis of our livelihood, our jobs, even in times of fear of war. Therefore, it is essential that the fact that the Member acknowledged in his comment is that today there are about 1 million people working in Hungary more than ten or a few years ago. Today there are 4.7 million people working, so many people employed have not yet been employed in the interests of contemporary Hungarian society and economy. As I said, we have created 1 million new jobs in over ten years. Our country currently has the fifth lowest unemployment in the EU ranking. This shows that, in addition to the activities and achievements of the last ten years, the government's activity in this area is also effective in today's war situation, and that, by boosting the economy, supporting the economy and the employment of employers, we create a situation where today Hungarian workers have a certain safety of life, jobs are given and certain. [[9.20]] Congressman mentioned wages. In this, with respect, I am arguing with what you have said. Of course, it is a grateful opposition attitude that we always demand more wages, because if we ask anyone that they want more salaries, they obviously have the answer that they do. At the same time, the steady rise in wages is indisputable, as in the specific circumstances of the economy, the gross earnings of full-time employees in the summer of 2022 amounted to HUF 500 000 per month. The net average salary was close to HUF 345 thousand, taking into account the discounts. I would add that an increase in average earnings has mainly contributed to the increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage. The minimum wage in 2011 was 73 500 forints, currently 200,000 forints. Due to the war in Ukraine and the failed sanctions in Brussels, energy prices have increased significantly and the government has set up an 11-point action plan to alleviate the problems caused by sanctioning inflation, of which 5 help families and 6 help companies and entrepreneurs. This shows that we are constantly monitoring this issue, and we are constantly taking measures that are now 4.7 million people, using our options, the mandate given by Parliament. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] necessary for its continued employment and the gradual increase in their income. Thank you, Mr. President, for your patience. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-22-8	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Tamás Mellar, Member of the Dialogue Group, asked for a pre-meeting address on current affairs. You have the floor.
u2022-11-22-9	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, 12 years of Fidesz domination is making us feel stronger and stronger that we live in the Orwell world. Once again, it turns out we have a bad memory of the animals of Orwell's Animal Farm. On Friday, our Prime Minister said on Kossuth Radio, and I quote: Hungary has never supported or voted for sanctions. Our Prime Minister voted in favour of all nine sanctions in Brussels, together with my fellow countrymen who observe the facts. [[Constant intervention from the pro-government ranks.]] Furthermore, our Prime Minister also said, once again I quote him: "When I formed the government, there were no sanctions. There was a war, but there were no sanctions. We remember again that the European Union had already adopted five sanctions packages, and Viktor Orbán voted in favour of all of them. Here in the House of Parliament, we have heard it many times, and just now the State Secretary speaking before me has said the wrong sanctions in Brussels, and our Prime Minister has mentioned this several times that the EU sanctions are ineffective and have the opposite effect than the bureaucrats in Brussels expected. They do not harm Russia, but are very damaging to the European economy. The European Union, you might say, shot itself in the leg, and I have even heard in this House that it did not shoot itself in the leg, but directly in the lungs. Well, according to the latest official announcement from the Russian central bank, Russian GDP decreased by 4.1 percent in the second quarter of 2022. In the third quarter, it decreased by 4 per cent and is expected to decrease by 7.1 per cent in the fourth quarter, which represents an annual economic downturn of more than 4 per cent. Meanwhile, the declining GDP growth in the West, in the European Union, is not expected to decrease or increase at 3.3 percent. Russian imports decreased by 22-23 percent, with prices falling by 30 percent in the Russian real estate market, indicating a severe recession. Tell me, what do you like to talk about? ! My fellow members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, are you really so ignorant or are you just trying to fool the Hungarian people? ! Of course, our compatriots who are locked in the Bermuda Triangle of Kossuth Radio, MTV1 and County Papers can be fooled for a long time, but the facts cannot be lied. The Auntie of Reality of Géza Bereményi will arrive here, too, in Hungary. However, outside our borders, you can see exactly what the Hungarian government is doing, what a glorious policy it is. The last time, the Speakers of the V4 countries, you know, canceled a planned meeting of Mr Kövér's colleagues by referring to the fact that it is not a good time to meet Hungary now. The Czech Speaker said that Hungary has reached the point of using the issue of war against the European Union. He insisted that we Hungarians are the Trojan horse of Russia. This is why it was considered important to send a clear signal to Hungary that this was unacceptable and therefore they would not even meet the Speaker. The question arises what is happening to us, what is happening here in Hungary. 80 years after we were Hitler's last henchman, are we gonna be Putin's last henchman? In my heart, I really hope that it won't, that's not what's going to happen, although my mind tells me that if this government stays, we're gonna be last henchmen again. Now I just want to ask the good Lord not to be right, not to be the last henchmen. Please help us to prevent this shame. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-11-22-10	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Mr. Balázs Fürjes responds, you have the floor.
u2022-11-22-11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I'm trying to make a peaceful sound, but I can't begin by not insulting the Hungarians with either Hitler or Putin, this country is nobody's henchman! Speaking of henchmen, I'm asking you to sweep your own house, because as an MDF member, you didn't think you'd become a henchman of Ferenc Gyurcsány. [[Interjection from the pro-government ranks: That's right!]] They never got into Parliament alone in their lives, the Dialogue asked for the Gyurcsány list, and now they can only be here because Ferenc Gyurcsány has put you on the list. You are sitting here in Parliament because you are Ferenc Gyurcsány's ally. The Ferenc Gyurcsány who invited Putin to his own house... [[Dr. Tamás Mellar intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] So the henchman of Ferenc Gyurcsány, along with the others, who invited Putin to his own house, and whose dog Toto was so obsessed with President Putin's visit to his master that he peed on the carpet. So let's not forget, if we're talking about henchmen, then who is who's henchman? Now let's talk a little more calmly about sanctions, what the Hungarians think about this and why you are doing what you are doing. The impact of sanctions is worth reading about, for example, the IMF report against me. The IMF's autumn report clearly states that sanctions do not have the effect on the Russian economy that the European Union thought to achieve. The European Commission is already expecting a recession in the fourth quarter in several Member States of the European Union. You look at Germany with great admiration, the Saxon Prime Minister said in the weeks that after the war, Germany must use Russian gas again, and that nuclear energy must play an important role in energy supply. The problem with sanctions is that Europe is creating a situation where the vulnerable, weaker customer wants to repel the dominant seller. We can't buy from anyone else, and he's happy to sell it to someone else. Who's wrong with that, and who's wrong with the penalty? Everyone knows that sanctions could be properly imposed under two conditions. One is, if the sanction is able to achieve the desired effect, apparently Russia is not terrified of the war and, on the other hand, if the penalty is no more damaging to the one who imposed it than the one who is targeted, we are at the moment being harmed more by these sanctions. [[9.30]] The European Union has deceived Europeans three times in the matter of sanctions. Firstly, after the outbreak of the war, when the prime ministers met in Versailles, it was said that there would be no sanctions for the energy sector. First lie. Second lie, they said that the sanction would bring Putin to his knees. Well, apparently it wasn't forced to kneel, the war escalated, and, by the way, Russia's revenues from gas and oil sales are breaking records. The third lie was that it would not hurt Europe; I have already talked about this. We ask the Hungarians; no one in Europe asked the Hungarians about the sanction. As a democratic means of discourse, the national consultation has been part of Hungarian public life for many years. We give Hungarians the opportunity to listen to their voices. We will certainly take the position that the Hungarians set out in the national consultation. But let us also say a few words about why you, while you can see that neither war nor sanctions are good for Hungary, are in favour of war and sanctions. Another ally to you is the successor party of the old state party, MSZP, whose co-chairman said the following after the election; I quote Ágnes Kunhalmi literally. The whole opposition is in a misunderstanding. Unfortunately, in many respects, it is isolated from the vast majority of its own voting base. He's been trying to live up to a very narrow set of expectations for a very long time, which, if someone tries to quit or talks to someone else, tries to speak in a different voice, they kill him. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Agnes Kunhalmi was talking about the dollar left? Didn't you say that you received billions of dollars for your election campaign from America in dollars, and those who gave you this money won't allow you to deviate from the narrative they dictate to you? They shouldn't sell their independence. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-11-22-12	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Róbert Dudás, Member of the Jobbik Group, asked for a pre-meeting speech: there is a solution, only with the title of the absence of will. You have the floor.
u2022-11-22-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, In the last two weeks, everyone has been looking for a solution to the closure of the mail: civilians, municipalities, residents, opposition representatives, opposition parties, everyone is trying to see what can be done in order for the mail to reopen, not be closed, because it is in the best interests of everyone in the place. I have put down a number of proposals, and Jobbik has already dealt with this issue a year ago. Back then, I spoke and presented a proposal for a decision in the proposal for a decision to save the small post office, because we thought that the small, rural post offices were at risk at that time. For the past week and a half, it has turned out that nothing is sacred to you: not the village, not the city, not the capital. My decision was discussed a week and a half ago by the Parliament's Economic Committee. As he was, he was swept off the table with the agreement of all government representatives. What I'm suggesting is that under the current agreement between the government and the Hungarian Post Office, you are obliged to keep a post office open for over a thousand people, let's take this down to 500. That's how we can save the small-town mail. In a debate, it was also said from your representative a week and a half ago that the government before 2010 closed 574 post offices, mostly in settlements of less than 600 people. I'm begging you, you're doing the same thing. It's not 574, it's 366, and who knows where it ends! With this proposal, we would have been able to save him, bring the protection of the post to legal force, but you voted against it. I also asked for the Gambling Company. provide assistance to Hungarian post offices, because from a net turnover of 701 billion, which is a serious sum for Lőrinc Mészáros, with a net turnover of 701 billion forints, I think it would be possible. It should come this way, otherwise it could be supported. It should come to this, not to what was announced last week, for example, that hairdressers, fitness clubs and, like every single donation cycle, buddy companies now receive about 100 million forints. Of this hundred million forints, if not all of them, but believe me, the maintenance and opening of some could have been resolved. If, on the other hand, a state company or the state because Prime Minister gave me this answer, the Hungarian State cannot provide support to a loss-making public company, and I accept this as an EU directive, we should continue to think about how we can find a solution, find a solution, and how we can save the mail. The only thing is that, as I started out, everyone is thinking about the solution, except the Hungarian government. But I'll help you. I have two proposals so far, and I would like to present you with a third proposal. Many municipalities have indicated to the government that they would like to help and take over the operation of the mail. [[Dr. János Fónagy nodds.]] Secretary of State nods, that's right. They were answered to accept the maintenance costs or at least half of them. There will be local governments in the country, who will do so, but very few. And believe me, all the municipalities would be very happy to do so, because it's in the best interest of everyone in the place. If the Hungarian State cannot support the loss-making Hungarian Post due to legal requirements, then it has an obligation to support the Hungarian municipalities. You have a duty to support him. It does not distract resources, it distracts competences, opportunities, resources, everything, it must shut down institutions, cultural, sports institutions or social institutions. Now help the Hungarian governments, give them help, give them the opportunity that if the state does not, then the Hungarian authorities can maintain the Hungarian post offices. I will note only in parentheses, although it deserves much more than the parentheses, and in my next speech I will specifically mention that the five or six years ago savings cooperative rationalisation, in which a lot of offices were closed, has restarted, and now not only the post offices have been closed, but the news is that more rural savings cooperatives are being made. I don't know whose interests this is, whose interests it is, who made this look for you. The only thing that interests me is the interests of the people, and it is in the interests of all Hungarian people that Magyar Posta should be open, the Hungarian savings cooperatives should be open. Please don't make decisions from a climate office in Pest. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Why don't you go to the country and ask the people what they need? It's called good governance. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2022-11-22-14	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr János Fónagy wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2022-11-22-15	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I thank Congressman Dudás for his interest in the matter of the post office, which is justified, since it concerns the whole of Hungarian society. At the same time, and now, I think, in his third to fourth speech, I notice that we are speaking side by side, because we see in a different way what we have to do about the Hungarian Post. Before Magyar Posta there are two main tasks. One of the things we have been working on for a decade is the need to modernise the Hungarian Post Office, the Hungarian Post Office is the XXI. It must be brought up to the standards of the century and digitised; everything that has been given in recent decades as a technical opportunity in this field must be built, applied and put in the service of Hungarian society. The other thing we have to deal with is a situation caused by war inflation, a very significant increase in energy prices. The details of this, I think, are as well known to the Member as I am, so if you allow me, I will not take the time available for the post office by discussing it. From 1871 Magyar Posta's current organization was not built on such a country and not on such a large system, but what was left of it was not an independent system, but a truncated fraction of this large network covering the entire Carpathian Basin. Therefore, when we are talking about modernisation, please do not treat this in a negative way and I think that there is the fundamental difference between us, but as a positive solution. [[9.40]] You mentioned closing the mailboxes. Congressman, Hungarian Post currently provides postal services via mobile mail in 1249 municipalities. I do not dispute that there were some of the 1250 settlements where this failed, but it was only a few, and it was more than a thousand, and it fulfilled its expectations. It was successful, and postal partnerships started, when I do not like to give Western European examples, because in many respects I do not consider them exemplary, but in this respect they are paired with postal services locally, in small settlements and, in general, without a sign, with other institutions operating in settlements. It can be either the municipality, it can be a community house, it can be a convenience store, it can be a cultural house, it can be a lot of things. Look at the pubs in Britain, there's a closet at the end of the counter that's the British royal post office, and there's all the activities that are otherwise suitable for cash flow out there. The current measures aim to ensure that the Hungarian budget and Magyar Posta can manage the additional energy costs of some HUF 20 billion in addition to the existing management hyates of Magyar Posta. That is why we said that until we see the end of this state of affairs, we will indeed pause the operation of 366 country post offices until spring, starting from the last days until March of next year. The solution in the procession... and this also shows that we are constantly monitoring and cooperating with the municipalities, I have spoken to more than 40 mayors myself, and I have discussed what you have said in order that, if they consider it justified and possible, we will see the possibility of half of all costs being taken over, as well as the possibility of operating during the interruption period. Thank you, Mr. President, for your patience. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-22-16	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Löcsei, Member of the Momentum Group, asked for a pre-meeting address on our current affairs. You have the floor.
u2022-11-22-17	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Since I've been a Member of Parliament, I've always tried to follow the path of honesty and truth. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: And before that? Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] Because I know that lies are the reason why this country is not moving as fast as it can; lies are the reason why we are lagging behind not only the European Union but also the countries of the region; and lies are poisoning public life and turning people away from politics. Ladies and gentlemen, We must tell the truth, even if it is not as pleasant as the illusions and illusions that you are trying to lead the Hungarian voters; they are trying to make the Hungarian families believe that what they have achieved in 12 years is the Fidesz miracle; they are trying to make you believe that you have created an unprecedented economic recovery, Canaan. But honest, true speech includes recognition. I have to admit: indeed, there are also positive measures taken by this government, there are certain measures that the Hungarian families may really feel positive about, for example, certain elements of the family support system. But at the same time, here comes your big sham, your lie, because you're selling it as a miracle that in 12 years, a family could make one step at a time. They no longer mention, hide, lie that you had historical possibilities, had every opportunity to catch up, not to the East, but to the West; they do not mention that 12 years with a two-thirds mandate, there was a possibility that a Hungarian family could not go from one to two, but to three or four. [[Bence Rétvári: On five!]] And the fact that this didn't happen is your fault. We must tell the truth: you have lived up to the future of Hungarians. They lived it up when they spent more on football than on the next generation, education. What national government is it, my pro-government fellow Members, whose premier hobby is more important than the future of our children? The Hungarians lived up to their future when they spent more time concealing the truth, propaganda, than the wage development of health professionals. What a national Christian government is more important to lead families than to allow our countrymen to go to hospitals and not to die. These examples show that your government is neither national nor Christian. You're probably sworn to rob, make the country sick and stupid. It would be cheaper to steer well, but unfortunately, this is not the way you chose. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Soon, the best holiday of the year greets all Hungarian families. Christmas is the most beautiful holiday of the year, so we can be deep in love and comfort. You will, too, rest in your well-heated homes, where they are rich in food and prosperity. I would like to ask you to think, during your multi-course dinner, of the bitter truth that, this Christmas, the tens of thousands of Hungarian families will be struck by the consequences of your failed economic policy and their lie-based governance. Thousands of families have to think before the holidays to heat or eat, because both are no longer able to do so because of bad governance and the Fidesz premium. I'd like to give you some information on what the numbers show, according to Eurostat. For all products, Hungarian inflation was the third largest in Europe. Foods, on the other hand, are by far the most expensive in Hungary, and Hungarian food inflation is at the top of the European Union by 43 percent in one year. It's the Fidesz premium we have to pay at the cash register. In Slovakia and the Czech Republic, there was only 26 percent increase in food prices, with only 21 percent increase in Poland and Romania. Fellow Members! These figures show that we are roughly behind the European Union. In view of these figures, what do you send to the Hungarian families, my fellow members of the Government, so before the holidays? Merry Christmas won't be enough. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-11-22-18	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2022-11-22-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, First, allow me some data about the past few years, and then let's move on to the present, honourable Member. If you have already quoted European statistics, in which you can see price increases, which are characteristic of all European countries... I do not know, the Fidesz premium will be paid in Belgium according to your logic and Spain; it is an interesting economic idea that everyday purchases in Finland and Greece will be increased because of the measures taken by the Hungarian government. But seriously, if you look at Eurostat, how much the number of people in need has decreased in each European country over the last decade, the fourth has fallen to the largest extent in Hungary. [[To the signal from the opposition's ranks:]] I don't know why you're shaking your hand, Your Honour. Then I'll tell you that this is a statement of Eurostat, the fourth largest reduction rate for people in severe material deprivation in Hungary. So thank God that this government has announced its policy based on work, tax reduction, investment and job creation against the left's policy, which was based on aid, so that we have actually achieved a breakthrough: one million more jobs; one of Europe's lowest personal income tax. Those with three children and an average income do not pay personal income tax; those under 25 do not pay personal income tax; we were able to return the 13th month pension to the elderly. We have introduced a family-type tax system that allows people to reduce their personal income tax to zero percent or even keep their contributions to themselves, and does not have to pay the state. [[9.50]] There's baby shower support, there's CSOK, there's tax exemption for young people to build an apartment from the CSOK. Mothers with four children have a personal income tax exemption for the rest of their lives, and families with four children have a car-shopping discount, as well as a kindergarten building program so that in addition to family support, they can go to work and use both benefits at the same time. Social support has tripled, as we spend 1100 billion HUF more on social support than we did before when we started our governance. There is a successful public employment programme, thanks to which hundreds of thousands of people have managed to move from the world of aid to the world of work. The promotion of investment last year brought the highest increase in GDP of the European Union of 7.1 percent. These are all results which you have now denied, honourable Member, and you have said that nothing has happened in recent years. [[Lajos Levočei intervenes. Eszter Vitalos: Who lies at a time like this?]] And if we turn to the present moment, say a country in Europe, which provides a higher share of public debt compared to average wages during the energy crisis than Hungary! [[Dr. Tamás Mellar intervenes.]] Name a country. You can say three, you can say five, but can you give me one? He can't! And why can't you tell me? Because there is no Hungary, because Hungary provides the largest premium. When there is an energy crisis, when paying bills in every country is one of the most important issues for people, and of course, how much is to be paid in the store, Hungary is doing so to the greatest extent; in the case of average consumption, it is HUF 181 thousand. You know, if your proposals had been implemented here in recent years, who would have abolished the reduction of the rent, then the average gas bill would not be HUF 15 833 but HUF 131 441, then the average electricity bill would not be HUF 7750, but HUF 50 833, because you said that it was a fraud and that it was not marketable. In Hungary, 30% of the average income is added as a subsidy to the overhead. In Germany, which is much richer than us, they do not allow or afford, or have not decided to give higher, they give 20%, and in Austria they give 6 percent, honourable Member. What do your momentary fellow Members say in this very difficult situation, say, Anna Donath? We demand even more stringent sanctions against Russia. What did András Fekete-Győr say? We need a deterrent policy and we need to offer weapons to the Ukrainian government. What did Katalin Czech say, your other MEP? NATO must help Ukraine to get the weapons they can use to fight this war. You are demanding more weapons and more sanctions, honourable Member, and if something can end the war, it is if less weapons crackle, and if something can put an end to the difficulties of the Hungarian people and the difficulties of the people of Europe, it is when the sanctions are over. Compared to this, you are demanding more sanctions, but more sanctions mean that today, even now, all Europeans are poorer than they were a year ago. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] This is due to war and war sanctions, and you are speaking not against sanctions, but against sanctions. This is a very big threat for the Hungarian people. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Eszter Vitalos: Dollar Left!]]
u2022-11-22-20	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, For a pre-meeting speech, Ms Zita Gurmai, Deputy Head of the Group, MSZP Group: on current issues. You have the floor.
u2022-11-22-21	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Today is the day of Hungarian public education, when we have to talk again about the current education system being in crisis, it cannot continue like this. There is a need to increase the wages of teachers immediately, but this is not enough, there is a need for much more: the NAT should be repealed, the bureaucratic burden of teachers should be reduced, teachers should be given greater professional autonomy and the clock burden of teachers and students should be reduced. Appreciation and respect are due to all actors in public education. [[Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] And now about Hungarian health care. The Hungarian health system collapsed under the government of Fidesz, because you have now submitted a law that is about the total destruction of Hungarian health during your administration. Let's see what's in this bill. For example, it says that in the future, patients can be cared for by relatives if they do not have enough money. So far, families have only had to bring in toilet paper, medicine and bandages, but if they want real care, now they have to give them the nurse. Thank Viktor Orbán and Fidesz. The question is, what are you collecting all that taxes and contributions for? So they can build stadiums? The fact is, however, you chased away doctors and nurses, and the money for health care was stolen. In closing accounts, they admit that they had a budget scale to purchase a ventilator, from which their friends pocketed billions, and that they could not use much of the machines in Hungarian health care. Fidesz even destroys the general medical system when it is said that, with the exception of Budapest, from 1 January, the provision of general medical and paediatric care will be the responsibility of the state emergency services. The system of having a sick child rushes down to the close-up, the system of family going to the doctor who knows the patient's problems ceases to exist. In a normal country where there is no bleeding out of the social system, where there is enough and professionally qualified professionals, it would be entirely appropriate not to give this to those otherwise in need of care in an emergency hospital, by the way, Mr Secretary of State said yesterday. But this is not a normal country, and this is not a suggestion, but a concrete bill that has not been preceded by any major professional-social debate, although it is now said that it is particularly important for the government to show the EU that everything is going great here. No, you don't! There are neither enough professionals nor adequate conditions to ensure that more people are cared for by the social system. Renamed as specialist care centres and assigned to social institutions means, in essence, a new cut-off of expenditure, but smaller classes can be completely closed, and patients know where they will end up. The losers of all these will be the sick and family members, and this will result in a series of tragedies. From 1 January, Fidesz wants patients out of hospital care departments in bulk, and Fidesz now says that these people will have to pay for care from 1 January. According to the bill, if the patient or his legal representative does not contribute to the transfer of the patient to the care centre and the medical care of the patient is no longer justified on the basis of a medical professional's decision, the specialist doctor shall refer the patient to his home. Are you sure they're only gonna send someone home who doesn't want to go to a nursing center? It is assumed that those affected will pay more for care than before. Depending on the hospital in the chronic classes, that is to say, the hospital had to pay a few or even several thousand forints a day, of course this was not too little. In social care, however, there is a different regulation: there are several million HUF buy-ins that need to be placed on the table in the first place, and then they can pay up to 100 to 200 thousand HUF a month, but they can go as far as 80 per cent of the pension. However, according to the law, they may now send home those who they believe do not require further care. Everything will have very serious consequences, crowds may be deprived of care, and they will not have enough money to fund their care. What should a family who can barely pay for the sevenfold increase in gas heating by Fidesz do? What should such a family do with their needy family if they cannot pay the care fee? Well, why do we spend a lifetime paying medical contributions? This is what we are seeing here: a series of inhumane coercive measures. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of MSZP.]]
u2022-11-22-22	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2022-11-22-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I see you're taking credit for the kamuvideos of Lajos Korózs, Honourable Congresswoman. Here in the walls of this House, he said these sentences, like you, that needy people are being sent home from hospitals by doctors. He did this during the plague, and he also made a video of it, which many people learned about. If he's not here in Parliament right now, in your ranks, maybe this video has something to do with it, even though he was launched as a candidate, but he didn't end up on the list. Well, you're doing the same thing as Lajos Korózs, honourable Member. He says that in Hungarian hospitals, Hungarian doctors make decisions to send people in need of care, who need hospital care, home. [[10.00]] That's what Lajos Korózs said, and it was rebutted in seconds, as well as who he referred to and what he said. Even more serious insults or baseless accusations were not much heard during the epidemic, but it seems that the Hungarian Socialist Party always cooks from the same dish, spreading the same rumors. That is what you did during the epidemic, honourable Member, you have been denied life, and that is what you are doing now in connection with this bill. Of course, anyone who needs care in a hospital, who needs medical supervision, can heal under medical supervision, and who needs social care will receive care in a social institution. In recent years, the capacity of social institutions has increased by thousands. Now, in the context of this amendment, everyone will remain safe: those who need health care will be safe in the hospital, and those who need social care will be safe in a social institution. By the way, you had a method for doing that when hospitals were shut down. When they shut down, say, Schöpf-Mere Hospital, what were they thinking about taking the mothers they took with their newborns to where? Why did you decide to shut down that hospital? Szabolcs Street Hospital has been closed, the children's hospital in Svábhegy has been closed. What kind of care did they think families would need then? When OPNI was closed, what were those patients offered, honourable Member? Is that your direction? Because they still have this program. Their fellow Member Imre László said that 45 percent of hospitals should be closed, and then Zoltán Komáromi said that more is needed. You're worried about where the patients will have their beds. What did they do when they were on the wheel? Several hospitals have been shut down, 16,000 active beds have been cancelled. What was their program during the election? 45% or more of hospitals should be closed. Then where would you provide care for the patients? You say that people don't pay contributions to pay for health or other care afterwards. Then why did you introduce the visitation fee? You say people pay their health contributions to get free health care. And you introduced a visitation fee, introduced a hospital allowance. How come it's been introduced, if that's the principle of you, why did you introduce the salary? We have abolished this by referendum, with the help of the people, and we will continue to maintain free health care, honourable Member. On the other hand, I quote your Prime Minister: We must allow rational consumer behaviour in health care, even if many people are forced to do so. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, You would have marketed and done all of health care, since the operation and operation of certain hospitals were privatised, but your own prime minister said about their own health vision that we should allow rational consumer behaviour. They did not see people as sick, but as consumers. Your prime minister spoke as if the man who went to a hospital or a shoe store would behave the same way and have the same attitude. Well, it's not the same thing. We're not going to a shoe store for the same reason we're going to the hospital, Congresswoman. You're talking about respect for workers, and in the meantime, 6,000 medical workers have been dismissed and a month's wages have been taken from them. I guess that wasn't really the honor when you guys were working. In recent years, until next January, we will achieve the largest health wage increase in Hungary's history in terms of doctors. In three years, doctors' salaries will increase two to two and a half times. You didn't do that, and no one else did. During the epidemic, the government decided to do so and increased the doctors' salary by two and a half times the amount of gratitude money that we had here 70 years ago, Congresswoman. We managed to get that out, and you didn't. We have also raised the wages of nurses by 72 percent, but we would also like to make a further increase here. What was about the fact that there was no agreement on the bill: there was a discussion with the Hungarian Medical Chamber, the Hungarian Health Professional Chamber, the Hungarian Pharmacy Chamber, the Hungarian Residents Association, the Hungarian Hospital Association, the Democratic Trade Union of Hungarian Workers, Social and Health Sectors, and today there will also be a debate with representatives of opposition parties, honourable Member, and then the debate of the law will begin. Still, who else would you have agreed with besides that? Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-11-22-24	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mr Balázs Barkóczi, MEP, DK Group, asked to speak with the title of News Affairs. You have the floor.
u2022-11-22-25	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, This call in the history of Hungarian parliamentarism has received a particular shade of meaning over the last 12 years, as opposition representatives, including myself, may often feel that they are speaking to the walls here in this Chamber, but we are standing here, we cannot do otherwise. It is November 22nd, the day of Hungarian public education. I'm not saying we're celebrating, because there's not only nothing to celebrate, but there's almost no public education. What we have is in ruins, Fidesz's failed education policy has destroyed it over the past 12 years. Let me quote József Eötvös: "To make the people dumb: it was the most powerful tool of tyranny from the earliest times to the present. The power of the tyrant lies only in the ignorance of the people. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, You have returned to the pre-Eötvös concept, systematically turned public education into a debauchery, ignoring the fact that the key to flexible adaptation to labour market needs is general education and therefore the age limit for compulsory education has been reduced. In ten years, the number of high school students has decreased by 20,000, and if this were not enough, the curriculum, teachers and students are both overwhelmed and the school leave is a thing of the past. In the absence of well-trained workers, we became Europe's assembly plant. All of this is supported by numbers. In 2020, taking into account the inflation of ten years, they spent 6.8 percent more on public education than in 2010. Understand this: they have managed to increase their spending by 6.8 percent over the last ten years! In 2010, we spent 3.2 percent of GDP on public education, with only 2.5 percent in 2020. Lack of money is obviously the result of a shortage of teachers, with 16,000 teachers missing from the system at the beginning of the academic year [[Bence Rétvári: How do you know that?]] And these numbers are getting worse every day. The salary of teachers is shamefully low, and has hardly changed since 2014. Recently, a high school in Budapest was looking for an afternoon cleaning and history educator in English for almost the same amount of net salary. What else teachers can do, study a profession, become carpenters or electricians to supplement their miserable wages. The increase in wages is linked by the government to the arrival of EU grants, but the teacher's employer is the school and the school district, not the European Commission, so neither the EU should care for their salary. Interestingly, they did not wait for the EU to buy Vodafone, to buy 770 billion or to raise the salaries of state leaders. The sector is boiling, students, teachers and parents are protesting, forming a living chain, faculty strike, civil disobedience, and the government is treating all of this as a matter of law enforcement. Orbán obviously did not leave the leadership of Hungarian public education to a police general for a reason. Let me point out that 50 years ago was the last time a general, Major General Ilku Pál, was in charge of education, and it is true that he was at least originally a teacher. The break-in of the KRÉTA IT system was published in the days of the crisis of the entire Orbán system, instead of corrupt government experts, László Palkovics commissioned a good friend and former business partner to build the system for HUF 40 billion. This was also the case: hacking and stealing the data of students, teachers, and parents did not cause any problems even for a medium - capacity hacker. It is just a blur on the cake, my pro-government colleagues, that you have tried to hide this data fishing from the public for a quarter. And you stole the future of this country. Klára Dobrev's shadow government wanted to regain the future of all of us when he came up with his educational proposals, of which the most urgent ones were submitted to Parliament. Let me tell you these things. Immediately increase the basic salary of teachers by 45 percent, include housing support for kindergarten teachers in the cafetheria, so that the burden of these is not on the otherwise bled municipalities, give back to teachers the right to strike, and immediately put illegally laid teachers back in their original jobs and ask for forgiveness, and perhaps one of the most important things is that the municipalities that ask for it will get their schools back together with resources for maintenance. Obviously, we have presented this to Parliament, but the Committee on Culture, I should probably say, has also rejected the proposal's inclusion in the series. The concept is therefore unchanged: they want to strengthen their fluctuating tyrannical rule by debauching citizens. I'm telling you, we're not gonna make it. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for the DK benches.]]
u2022-11-22-26	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor.
u2022-11-22-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I have just said to Mrs Zita Gurmai that she is going after Lajos Korózs, but Congressman Barkóczi, I see that Bangóné Borbély is going after Ildikó's laurels. [[10.10]] He's the one who put himself in politics by insulting Fidesz voters. [[Balázs Barkóczi: How did that happen?]] Honourable Congressman, This was continued on the debate day, but I would ask you to suspend it. Just think about what they're saying. They were still saying that the 3 million people who voted for Fidesz-KDNP voted for Fidesz-KDNP because they were uneducated, stupid and ignorant. [[Balázs Barkóczi: But where did I say that, Mr. Secretary?]] This is what Ágnes Kunhalmi said then, that those who do not know about abroad are fideszes, because they don't know what really happens in Hungary in themselves, it's weird enough that someone from abroad learns about Hungarian relations, and not in Hungary, and you have also continued this line of thought, that those who are not educated, have not been informed, have not thought about Fidesz, are voting for Fidesz. [[Balázs Barkóczi: I didn't say that at all!]] Three million people are insulted that those who don't think are Fidesz voters, so Fidesz wants to train non-thinking people in education. None of this is true, so thinking people are voting for Fidesz. This was also noticed by your ballot counters when they sent ballot counters from Budapest to the countryside, and they also realized that these people really think that way, and it is rational what they think. So please, this kind of style, that non-thinking people vote for Fidesz, at least suspend it, not because of us, but because of the three million Hungarians. We never say that to your voters. We say they think differently than we do. We criticize you, but not your voters. I quote from the DK website about the teacher's wage increase from your Facebook page. It's extraordinary! DK is the only party to vote against the package of corruption in Orbán in Parliament today. What is written here as a package to support corruption in Orbán is, in fact, a package of laws necessary for the use of EU funds. [[Laszlo Sebian-Petrovski: What you stole!]] And you are proud to post on your Facebook site, Shadow Minister, that you voted no to this, so that the money needed to raise the teacher's wages will not come. You are proud to vote against the arrival of the Hungarian teacher's wage increase in Budapest, Hungary, and the teachers can use it. But I quote your fellow shadow minister, and then discuss it at the shadow government meeting. The Shadow Minister said that when he was a real secretary of state for education:, The demonstration is not a good answer to the problems, and the wallet is not dissuaded by the original intention of the demonstration. Now, when you settle for a well-intentioned demonstration of teachers... because obviously the government is in agreement to demand higher wages. Even before the first demonstration, we made it clear that that is our goal to have higher teachers' wages. This is what you said you voted 'no' here in Parliament. Then think back to these sentences when you said that you were ignoring the demands of the demonstrators. You will also learn very nice euphemism at the shadow government meeting from Gergely Arató, who said to reduce costs in education that this is a better and more efficient use of funds; therefore, it is not a reduction in salaries and costs, but a more efficient use, honourable Member. Our goal is to make teachers more respected financially. This year, too, the wages of teachers will rise in the next year, as well as in the following year, but we would like to see them rise by not 10 percent, but by 21 percent, 25 percent and 29 percent. To do this, we need to pool our own budgetary resources and the European Union funds that can be used to raise the wages of teachers, and then we can achieve the highest teacher wage increase of all time in Hungary. That's our goal. You're blocking it. This was also prevented six times in Brussels when such a vote on EU funds came forward, and here in Parliament, they are proud to be hindering it. I ask you not to prevent it, but to help the teachers raise their wages. Let the national minimum be that the educator's wage increase is promoted by everyone. It should not be a political battlefield for the opposition to vote against the legislation needed to raise the teacher's wages, but for the ruling party to vote in favour, but to agree on that. Let us agree on this in Budapest, let us agree on this in Brussels, and do not try to show up in a crowd in connection with a pedagogical action, because the DK demonstration shows a relatively small crowd, which is why you go where there is a larger crowd. The fact that nothing has happened in the last 12 years, I think I've given you 38 examples of how much has happened from free textbooks, from new generation textbooks to the public education portal, digital textbook development, until we tripled the source of the children's meals. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] That we have increased the free course of teachers in NAT, until the underprivileged students' scholarships and free KRESZ courses. A lot has happened in the last 12 years in the field of education, and we would like to continue with the wage increase. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-22-28	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Péter Harrach, Deputy Head of the Group of the KDNP Group, applied for a pre-meeting address with the title "The national interest must not be harmed." You have the floor.
u2022-11-22-29	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, If a congressman wants to speak before the agenda, he will see what the house rules give him the opportunity to do. To speak on an extraordinary matter of national importance. When we look at the questions in public life because they are extraordinary in general, we find strangely that they all have foreign policy implications and relationships. This is also the case with national consultation. What can we tell you about that? Consultation is the most democratic instrument, as it asks citizens, among the elections, what they think of each issue. This is particularly significant when democracy is in great danger, such as the threat of elections from external intervention, when a significant amount of money is given to one political force to win the election with this help. Hungarian life is so colourful that we can find an example in Hungary. But it is not only this kind of danger to democracy, but also when, among its three forms, they want to abolish social democracy, Christian democracy, liberal two, and there are those who proclaim the exclusiveness of only one, liberal democracy, and this is a threat to freedom. What's the consultation about? A feature of the war. And we believe that war can be avoided because it causes the suffering and death of innocent people. We must not interfere in war with arms and other means, but it is our duty to help victims; even if they are refugees, and even if they need support in their own country. What do we think of the Russian-Ukrainian war? Perhaps it is not unknown to you that this is the war of great powers. CHAPTER XX Hungarian history of the century teaches us that it is not good to interfere in the war of the great powers, because it has serious consequences. This consultation is about sanctions, which can be said to be an effective tool if well targeted. However, EU sanctions have failed because they have harmed us. They're like a boomerang, because they caused an energy crisis, high inflation, an economic crisis that has consequences that affect society as a whole: unemployment, a fall in living standards, and so on. Why is that? Because those who need energy resources do not sanction the person who gives them that energy carrier. The question to me is how Hungary manages these sanctions. On the opposition side, it has already been said today that Hungary has voted in favour of sanctions here. What can we tell you about this? Hungary must take a narrow path, because we are a member of the EU community, if we cannot change the wrong decision, the community will oblige us to accept it, but only until it violates national interests. And this is the other side of the narrow path. How did we do that to protect national interests? We have fought exceptions; let us think of oil, gas, and, I hope, nuclear energy. After all, let us respond to the need for consultation. On the one hand, so that the government can express the opinion expressed in the answers and, on the other hand, that it can do this effectively by having a great deal of social support behind it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[10.20]]
u2022-11-22-30	Thank you very much, Deputy Group Leader. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2022-11-22-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, The one who read the press today must have had an interesting headline, an interesting and strange headline on one of the great portals. It sounds like opposition parties claim, pay attention: they did not realize that they had pushed 1.8 billion forints into their campaign. They didn't notice! Oh, my God, he's really fucking crazy. Of course, it could be said that they want to govern people who don't notice 1.8 billion forints. Such a unit would manage the budget of the Hungarian state. How many shadow ministers does it take to show up for nearly 2 billion forints? I would like to reassure you: the country, the Hungarians, has very much noticed that foreign sponsorship has arrived. Not because they were invited to various campaign meetings, but because of what the left did. The dollars were in their statements, their resolutions, and their entire campaign. The pile of dollars arrived, and the left performed: arms and soldiers would have been sent to the battlefield, demanding sanctions, while it was quite clear that this was harmful to the country, demanding a global minimum tax, which means a drastic corporate tax increase in Hungary, campaigning to prevent us from getting the EU funds that we would otherwise have. So they demanded everything that stimulated eyes, mouths, and powers, but it is not in our country's interest. And what we have here is the worst foreign electoral intervention in recent decades. I think that there is a fundamental interest in having an opposition in Hungary that does not depend on foreign expectations and foreign orders. It's not just for your own good, it's for the good of the whole country. As far as sanctions are concerned, the European Commission has recently convinced the public on its own Facebook page that sanctions are working well and that Europe is being hit more than Russia than the war aggressor is a lie. Well, the numbers are different. The European Commission also expects a recession in the euro area in the fourth quarter. And they're expecting recession next year in Germany and Italy. To say that this has nothing to do with sanctions and Brussels policy and energy price rises is a rather violent act on reality and facts. There are currently discussions on the ninth EU sanction package and there are several elements of this package that could have harmful consequences for the Hungarian economy. For example, they would ban cooperation with Russia in the field of nuclear energy and fuel. This would affect not only the Paks enlargement, but also the functioning of the existing blocks, and there are not, incidentally, five EU countries where Russian technology operates blocks and nuclear blocks, like the Paks. This is why the Prime Minister indicated that Hungary wants to achieve an exemption, Paks provides a significant part of the Hungarian electricity generation, and if this were to fall out, this could only be replaced by more expensive production methods. Another risky element of the sanction package is the gas cap. We also want an exemption from this. 'Cause what's the problem with that? It is not that there is a price limit, and the part above the price limit is replaced by the European Union, Brussels, that is not the case. No, they set a price limit, and that's it. As a result, some countries simply do not deliver at this price limit. Russia has already made it clear that it will not deliver. Thus, in the end, it is not a price limiter, it is an anti-price measure, but an embargo, which is one of the most serious sanctions, which is a particularly high gamble if we know that the European Union is heavily exposed to foreign gas supplies, it needs to be imported at 40%. In the case of our country, this percentage is 85 percent, and these shipments cannot be replaced at the same price. These are issues that affect the European economy as a whole and, directly or indirectly, all European citizens. That is why we have launched a consultation, which is why we encourage everyone to participate. Europe's economy, the livelihoods of the European people, such as the Hungarian people, are at stake, and this is too much at stake to remain inactive or mute. Thank you to everyone who has given your opinion so far and to those who will. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-11-22-32	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mónika Dunai, Member of the Fidesz Group, applied for a pre-meeting address with the title of our current affairs. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2022-11-22-33	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The war has been going on in the neighbouring Ukraine since February, on which our position has remained the same from the beginning: we want peace. We need a ceasefire and an immediate peace settlement as soon as possible. Last week's example in Poland confirms that if there is a war in the neighbouring country, no one is safe. Now it's up to a calm attitude to stop the war from spreading. It is therefore regrettable, as the left has said in response to the first passion. He immediately began a war instigation. The question is whether they meant it or just wanted to distract attention from the scandal about the financing of left-wing parties abroad. Answer that, please. In addition to the fact that war requires human lives, it also has serious economic effects. The longer there will be peace, the greater the price of peace, the more the sacrifice will be. In addition, Brussels reacted to the war with a sanctions policy that also pushed energy prices to the top and brought inflation across Europe. The Hungarian government is working to protect the Hungarian people and the Hungarian economy from its effects. As part of this, we provide a reduction in the average consumption for all families, which is about HUF 181 thousand per month. In particular, it is a new element that this discount applies to apartments and apartments with a common meter. The price stop for certain foods and fuels also helps families, as well as measures to preserve jobs. One element of the action against sanctioned inflation is that the government extended the interest rate stop to loans from small and medium-sized enterprises as of 15 November. They're taking the interest back to the 28th of July, and the interest stop will be alive until next July. They also extend the Széchenyi Card loan scheme and announce a factory rescue programme as well as a factory rescue guarantee and loan scheme. The factory rescue programme provides non-refundable support to large companies for energy efficiency and energy-generating investments. We believe that economic growth is one of the antidotes to the crisis. It is therefore necessary to encourage investment with all our potential, with all our resources. In order to support small settlement shops, an application will be launched with HUF 8 billion within a few weeks in the framework of the Hungarian village programme. The possibility can be used by every convenience store that operates in settlements with fewer than 2 thousand inhabitants, and the amounts won can be calculated for wage costs and overhead costs. In order to support the tourism sector, i.e. in order for hotels and restaurants to be open in the winter season in addition to high energy prices, the government decided that the actors in the sector would not have to pay the tourism development contribution of 4% of their net turnover from 1 October to 31 March of this year. Our aim is also to maintain full employment in the economic situation affected by the wrong sanctions. This is supported by the energy intensive support programme for small and medium-sized enterprises, which makes reference to the provision of support for the maintenance of employees. The tried and well-functioning public employment programme is expanded by the government. This year, the state will provide a surplus of HUF 7 billion for the continuation of the running public work programme, and next year we will spend HUF 110 billion on it from the budget. [[10.30]] Ladies and gentlemen, The above reflects the government's efforts to mitigate the inflationary effects of failed sanctions in order to preserve jobs and avoid recession. We ask the left not to hinder access to Hungary for EU funds that have been withheld for political reasons, as the government intends to use it for equally important purposes, wages and anti-inflationary measures. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-11-22-34	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, Deputy Minister, wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2022-11-22-35	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As you have mentioned, Hungarian people have encountered two types of economic difficulties and crisis management. One was a long time ago, more than ten years ago, it was the left who handled the crisis by taking away the 13th month pension, raising the rent, raising taxes, eliminating the family tax relief and indebting the country. The impact and result of this has been a significant increase in unemployment and economic performance. This was, as I said, the left-wing method, even though there was no war in that crisis, no energy crisis, nor did the European Union impose sanctions on our country and the countries of the European Union as a whole. On the other hand, the current national government has chosen a different path. As incredible as it is to the left, he said that protecting Hungarian families is the first and most important task. At the time of the pandemic, we managed to do this by quickly recovering from the difficulties, preserving jobs, and returning the economy to growth quickly, because, as the congresswoman said against the crisis, the safest way to tackle this problem is to keep economic growth. The energy crisis caused by the war has added to the current difficulties, but the government's strategy, the government's priority has not changed, the Hungarian families are the first, the Hungarian families, when they enter into business, the Hungarian families, when they are employees, have to preserve the Hungarian families in all respects with regard to the upbringing of the family. How did the current government do this? As boring as it may be for the left, the current government has rebuilt the 13th month pension. As hard as it is to hear from the left, this government paid for the first time a pension premium. Even though you invented it, there were no indicators to pay. As regards pensioners, the government has promised to maintain the purchasing value of pensions and has therefore increased pensions for the third time this year in November. The government said that the family support system should not be impaired or even strengthened. In the face of inflationary difficulties, the government has taken steps, as the Member mentioned, to stop certain prices. This is called a resistop for average consumption, a fuel stop for consumption of the population, and a interest stop, which is now extended to businesses as well as the population. This is complemented by a food price stop that just came in with eating potatoes and eggs. In addition, the government launched a firewood and brown coal program. It is a very important achievement that 4.7 million people are currently working in Hungary. Behind this 4.7 million people, there are all families, children who go to school and kindergarten. Hungary has very good employment indicators, since 74.4 percent is higher than the average of the European Union. The unemployment rate is 3.4 percent, which is lower than the EU average. But we also managed to maintain the fiscal balance, and our main goal is to ensure that economic growth is between 4.5 and 5 per cent this year, and that next year growth cannot go negative, so the government's aim is to achieve economic growth in 2023 in the next year, around 1 per cent. It is very important that, as I mentioned, the families are the first, the government is placing its economic policy under this. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-11-22-36	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Dear Parliament, It follows that the presentation of the Directorate-General for European Aid Audit and the amendment of certain laws adopted at the request of the European Commission, with a view to the effective completion of the conditioning procedure, will be discussed in an exceptional procedure. Government referral T/2033. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the speech by the author will take place. Before I give the floor to Mr Répássy Róbert, I would like to inform you that in the debate, you have a total time frame of 25 minutes for opening speeches and further speeches in the debate, for any closing statement. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2022-11-22-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and thank you for your information. Dear Parliament, As has already been said between the walls of this House, on 18 September a difficult but extremely constructive and forward-looking conciliation process between the Government of Hungary and the European Commission has been successfully completed, under the so-called Conditionality Mechanism. In recent years, the Hungarian Government has sought to implement and implement the commitments made to the European Commission, for which it has presented several proposals to this House. This line also includes the bill to be discussed. I must point out that the Hungarian Government remains committed to implementing the measures on the basis of a timetable agreed with the Commission. Accordingly, already at the end of August, the government started to implement the measures undertaken, and to this end the government has already put forward several proposals to this House, and this line is in line, as I have said in the current bill. The bill before us will transpose solutions with the European Commission into the Hungarian legal system in order to reach agreement with the European Commission. In this context, specific legal rules for the Directorate-General for European Aid Audit will be established, while the bill clarifies the detailed rules of the new procedure for the correction of criminal proceedings and the framework for the Central Information Public Data Register. As a result of a professional dialogue with the European Commission, the bill complements the rules on the Internal Audit and Integrity Directorate and the operation of the Integrity Authority. Honourable Members, On the basis of the bill, the Directorate-General for European Aid Audit, currently managed by the Minister for Public Finance, will be an autonomous administrative body. Consequently, the Directorate-General should be functionally and professionally independent in the performance of its tasks and not be instructed by another person or body to carry out its duties, should not seek guidance from any other person or body, should perform its duties separately from other bodies and without any influence. The Directorate-General shall be responsible for the audit authority, audit authority and audit body tasks, as well as for other international grants, as well as for the annual reporting of the Directorate-General to Parliament. [[10.40]] The bill lays down rules on the appointment of the Director-General in charge of the Directorate-General, as well as the cases and rules for the termination of the Director-General's mandate, as well as the function of the Director-General, the degree of freedom due to the Director-General. It is important to note that the bill guarantees the autonomy and the absence of any influence on the functioning of the Directorate-General not only from an organ, but also from a professional and personal perspective. This means that the reasons for conflicts of interest against the Director-General and the Deputy Director-General, the rules of procedure applicable to the declaration of conflicts of interest and the existence of conflicts of interest will be regulated at the statutory level. The bill also settles the rules on the obligation of the Director-General and the Deputy Director-General to make declarations of assets by applying to certain matters the rules on the declaration of assets of Members of Parliament for the declaration of assets of the Director-General and the Deputy Director-General. In the context of the operation of the Directorate-General, it is finally necessary to point out that, for the employment relationship of civil servants of the Directorate-General, the 2019 CVII on bodies with special status and the status of persons employed by them. Laws shall apply to derogations which are laid down in this bill. Dear House, The bill complements the detailed rules of the new procedure for the correction of criminal proceedings when it provides for the possibility for the Integrity Authority to submit a motion for review or a repeated motion for revision in the investigative procedure. In view of the constitutional requirements, this body is still not entitled to file an indictment, in which case the bill allows any natural or legal person to enter the proceedings after the appropriate publication process in the absence of another proposer. Dear Parliament, The bill further strengthens the public disclosure of public data provided by the already established central information public data record interface by covering the entire range of budgetary bodies, with the exception of national security services. In addition, the bill also clarifies and expands the scopes of the data to be published, facilitating freedom of information to the greatest extent possible. The bill contains additional additions to the Internal Audit and Integrity Directorate at the request of the Commission. The detailed rules of the Management Board's responsibilities have therefore been specified, including the statutory ban on the head of the body, the director's influence. The bill details the rules governing the supervision of the procedure for the selection and conflict of interest of government officials and employees of the Management Board. On the other hand, this amendment clarifies the division of competences between the Integrity Authority and the Internal Audit and Integrity Directorate. Dear fellow Members, The bill also includes minor amendments to the operation of the Integrity Authority. Among these, the requirement that the Integrity Authority should be entrusted with its tasks without any interference by any other institution, body, political party, company, association, legal or natural person, further strengthening the independence of the body's staff, budget and organ. As a further guarantee of the independence of the Authority, the bill replaces the rules of procedure for the dismissal of the President and Deputy Chairperson of the Authority with a new procedure whereby the legal relationship between the President and the Vice-President of the Authority is now established by a court in cases which have previously given rise to dismissal. By strengthening the regulatory guarantee framework for the authority's audit function, the bill provides for horizontal cooperation obligations for entities controlled by the Integrity Authority. Mr President, Dear House, Dear fellow Members, The Hungarian government has focused on implementing and implementing the commitments made to the European Commission over the past period, and this bill is also an important cornerstone of this process. The aim of the bill is to give the Hungarian people the resources they deserve, so I ask this House to support the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-11-22-38	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his speech, but I would also like to inform him that he has a time frame of 16 minutes for further speech and closing. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented. I give the floor to Congressman János Kiss, rapporteur of the committee.
u2022-11-22-39	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that on 21 November 2022 the Legislative Committee discussed the Directorate-General for Auditing European Aid and T/2033 on the amendment of certain laws adopted at the request of the European Commission in order to conclude the procedure for conditioning effectively. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 27 votes in favour, 5 votes against and 3 abstentions. The Legislative Committee has adopted an amendment to the proposal, which has also formulated language-rights, technical clarifications and additions, and I intend to present the opinion of the group related to the bill in my speech by the lead speaker. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-11-22-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have speeches from Members. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 30-30 minutes, and the independent Members have 8 minutes in total. First, I give the floor to Mr János Kiss, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2022-11-22-41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, As an introduction, I would like to join Mr State Secretary's thoughts. Indeed, Hungary has been in constant negotiations with the European Commission over the past year to give Hungarian people and Hungarian institutions and companies access to their EU funds. Hungary has made every effort to reach a fair agreement: we have made 17 different commitments and there is an intensive dialogue with Brussels. In the context of this dialogue, these 17 commitments will be supplemented and clarified by this bill. Although the Hungarian left has not supported the efforts of the government so far, but we trust that we will achieve our goal along the lines of the efforts, and that agreement with the Union will be a symbol of forward-looking dialogue, and that we will achieve our national goals while preserving our national sovereignty. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Accordingly, the bill before us continues to call for an agreement with the European Commission to be concluded as soon as possible. The amendments transpose the compromise solutions with the European Commission into the Hungarian legal system. The proposal covers five main areas, including the new law on DG Auditing European Aid, the second amendment to the rules of the new prosecution procedure, thirdly the clarification of the rules on the central information public data register, fourthly the clarification of the rules on the Internal Audit and Integrity Directorate and, lastly, the clarification of the rules on the Integrity Authority. I would like to highlight from the proposal the amendments to the Directorate-General for European Aid Audit, as the central office currently managed by the Minister for Public Finance will now become an autonomous administrative body under this amendment. The overall staff of the Director-General, the Deputy Director-General and the Directorate-General will carry out their duties in complete independence, separately from other bodies and without any influence. [[10.50]] In addition, the proposal amends the XXVII of 2022 on the control of the use of EU budget resources on the basis of the Commission's comments. Law No. 1. It also clarifies and complements the rules relating to the role and functioning of the Integrity Authority. The amendments to the Authority clarify that it is obliged to carry out its tasks without interference by any other institution, body, political party, company, association, legal or natural person. In the context of the conditioning procedure launched against Hungary, the government took corrective measures. In compliance with this commitment, the Internal Audit and Integrity Directorate, whose main task is to control the use of EU budgetary resources, will be set up. The amending proposal sets out the detailed tasks of the Management Board, sets out a ban on the influence of the Director and complements the rules on the declaration of conflicts of interest and declarations of interests of government officials and employees employed in the Management Board's organisation. On the basis of these amendments, we can say that Hungary is committed to the core values of the European Union, which all Member States have. The measures of the bill before us, in cooperation with the Commission, have been established in accordance with their requests. Our country is committed to protecting the financial interests of the Union. All along, the main goal was to achieve a constructive dialogue with the Commission so that Hungarian citizens and companies would receive the support they needed. We can say that Hungary has made every commitment and proposal that can contribute to the efficiency of the use of EU funds. Dear House, The Fidesz parliamentary group therefore supports the bill of amendment tabled by the Government in order to reach an agreement with the European Commission as soon as possible. I would ask my fellow Members to support this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-22-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Sebian-Petrovszki, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2022-11-22-43	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, We are talking here about a bill between the walls of this House, which the government has declared would aim to have less corruption in this country, less theft, which basically affects EU funds, and if we do, we should act very hard, more than we already have. Who would not support such an effort? Obviously, there is no one here or outside the walls of this House who would disagree. However, this would be the case if we had not lived in this country in the last 12 years, and this proposal did not come here under the conditions under which this was to take place. What am I talking about? The request for the negotiation and adoption of this proposal by a government which, over the past 12 years, has stolen a significant proportion of EU funds with attached parts, a network of entrepreneurs, oligarchs and clients close to it. They've been doing this for 12 years, and now they've run into the fact that the Union has had enough of this, thank God, and he says that no longer so, please let the Hungarian government and Fidesz do something to make it not so. And in this situation, the government is trying to excite itself so that it can go back to Brussels and hope that they can make the Brussels people believe that from now on they will do everything they can to prevent corruption and theft of EU money from coming here again and again, which you would, of course, steal over and over again, using for your own purposes. In fact, this proposal is that Fidesz has suddenly discovered the theft of EU funds by Fidesz and is doing all kinds of fake activities, offices, authorities, mechanisms to which Fidesz itself, by the way, will appoint Fidesz-like people to lead, so that EU funds can come and then Fidesz can steal them again. This, please, is the framework of this story, this is what we are living in, this proposal can be interpreted in this, not in any other way. Declarantly, his goal is not to make it better to live in this country, to avoid corruption and theft. My former fellow Fidesz lead speaker also said that this serves no other purpose than to try to meet Brussels for the sake of money. You don't want less corruption, you want to believe that there will be less corruption so that the money can come from Brussels and you can steal it again. So the location of the maiden is different, my dear Secretary of State. If you look at this, you don't have any credit in this area. After 12 years of stealing, they come here and they say that we made a great suggestion, which is why there won't be any theft next time or from now on. Well, they don't have any credibility in saying that, so that we can believe a tiny part of this proposal that's here. It is said that the Directorate-General, which has been in existence since 2010, will now be an autonomous body. Well, that's great. I've looked at this DG's website, and there's an ear that checks to date. They won't believe when the last check was carried out: in 2017, there was a last check, or at least on their website. What group does this organ, which is described as autonomous, enter into? Well, to the group where the Public Procurement Authority is now. Better public procurement in the last 12 years? Cleaner? More honest? More transparent? Well, hell, no. We know you didn't. Some of the criticisms in Brussels concern public procurement in Hungary. Or that's where the Competition Authority belongs. And the Hungarian Competition Authority has been working well for the past 12 years? Did it work transparently and in the interest of citizens? Consider here how public companies could be bought up earlier, that they bought their own sectors, that Lőrinc Mészáros has more than 500 media portfolios, and the Competition Authority did not have a word for that. Or he belongs to the same group as this Directorate-General, the Data Protection Authority. Well, shall we tell you, for hours, how impartial the Data Protection Authority is? What does it look like when you use the Pegasus software, you didn't consider the situation appropriate to make a statement, and then the investigation found that everything was okay? On the other hand, in any political action of opposition parties, if you like, when you collect your data, your President will make a statement on his own that he will find an objection here and there, and then, of course, you will find nothing at the end of the office. So, they're gonna put this Directorate-General in this circle, and they're gonna say it's gonna be autonomous. And if it's autonomous, it'll probably work very independently, and now it really is, but it's really exploring corruption. You see, we are talking about an authority the President of which will be proposed by Viktor Orbán, and Katalin Novák will appoint him. That's what we're talking about, an autonomous organ. After you came into power, from 2010, the first few years passed by to occupy the entire system of public administration, authorities and agencies, to plant their own kissers, their own party soldiers. We've seen this from the State Audit Office to all of it. (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.) So, I just want to say, as the main framework of this bill, that it is possible to talk about nice words here, Mr. Secretary of State, that he has done this in his exposé, but the fact is that reality is completely different. Therefore, there is no living person in this country who believes that the government now has the sincere intention of not having corruption here and not stealing EU money from the government that has done this in the last 12 years. If we have gone beyond this problem, then let's talk about how to do this right, how to do less corruption in this country, and how to steal less EU money. In the very simple sentence that if you didn't govern this country, that would be a solution, I would now go beyond it. [[Dr. Répássy, Róbert: It is up to the electorate. There are still elections in Hungary!]] I'd like to add more than that, if I may, Mr. Secretary. [[11.00]] In this package of laws, the law on public procurement is now being amended for perhaps the third or fourth time this year. Well, that's great, but it's just that, again, the amendments are a small addition, and they don't lead to the goal of making public procurement transparent in any way. They touch the part of the information self-determination law that is not yet accepted. Here, a few weeks ago, we discussed some of this, and also Mr Secretary of State sat across from me, and we talked a long time about public information and what the government intends to do about it, and how deceitful that proposal is. Now, even compared to that, this bill contains amendments. So we haven't even accepted it yet, it has to be modified. I could say that what is included as a proposal in the context of criminal proceedings, so that a separate procedure should apply to these in corruption cases, and that should be stricter, great, that is a good proposal. But the problem is that the law can be rewritten here, but there is a Polt Peter as the head of the DA's office, who and his organization would have a role in making these procedures. And if that's not enough, they've taken over the courts, they've appointed the President of the Curia a man who had been Peter Polt's deputy for six years. They were using the same system as I was talking about, completely clear, that after 2010, they replaced the heads of all the authorities and their leadership with people who were good for you. In this system, we would rightly expect an amended law to be put into practice, and the system of office whose task is to then apply the amendments that you have tabled here, and perhaps the House will accept that it will make public life clearer? ! Well, that's nonsense, there's no way. We could say that the idea of a motion to override is not from the devil. I think there are legal coherence issues in the system, but I understand that because the special situation of this organisation itself justifies this. It could be good. But how do you propose to introduce this, what do you put in the detailed rules? It means that anyone should be in that lawsuit in 30 days, in that particular procedure. So, within 30 days, any citizen should know that a phase has been completed there, and that he has access to it, that he should have all the information, perhaps documents, and then write all of this within 30 days, a professional material, an initiative, a legal document that he will submit within 30 days. That's nonsense! Of course, it is also about the fact that, even if they are already inventing and putting in the bill points that should be considered on a professional basis, even there, they apply detailed rules and there are detailed rules in the bill that make it impossible to enforce. So once again, it can be said that this and this, and that would be done to make public life clearer, but then, with the detailed rules in the same paragraph, they narrow down the application that makes it impossible to make it work. One word, like a hundred, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Secretary of State, we have before us a bill, an untrue bill, in fact a bill for your personal political interests, which does not stand the minimum that the Democratic Coalition would need to vote for. We're not gonna vote yes. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the lines of DK and MSZP.]]
u2022-11-22-44	Thank you very much, Congressman László Sebian-Petrovski. Welcome, fellow Members. I give the floor to Mrs Hajnalka Juhász, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2022-11-22-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I will turn to the presentation of the bill, although Mr State Secretary and my fellow Member have presented it in detail, but I would like to respond to my fellow Member, Mr Sebian-Petrovsk. The first thing that doesn't hold up is that they're not pretend measures. Commissioner Didier Reynders... I believe that yesterday he followed the debate of the European Parliament, since a number of things were dictated to the Balliberal Members of the European Parliament. [[Laszlo Sebian-Petrovski's name.]] I've been watching the debate. This is not about pretend measures, it is about a professional dialogue between the Commission and the Hungarian government, without which this thing could not have worked. That's one thing. This is not an appearance, but a dialogue and dialogue with the Hungarian government, which meets the Commission's professional expectations. It is also very important that we have been able to rationalize this to 17 points. Moreover, the Commission itself must stick to the judgment of the Court of Justice, in which it laid down the rules of procedure on the rule of law and according to which the Commission and the Hungarian Government should negotiate. The second thing I see from your speech is that what hurts you the most is that you're not on the government. [[László Sebian-Petrovski: The country is hurting!]] Because what we've been listening to here is the Wizard of Oz. So if you could sit in the government, then everything would be perfect and everything would be flawless. [[László Sebian-Petrovski: Better than this!]] We see that this direction, the desire for power, motivated everything. I'm so sorry. [[László Sebian-Petrovski intervenes.]] That's how you got there. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: Czeglédy and the others!]] in yesterday's European Parliament debate, I listened to you quietly and respectfully so that you could persuade the European Parliament that you had no say in the process of discussing our country, the Hungarian people, whether we deserve money or not. You have a very serious role to play here. And you are not ashamed of yourself, and here today you are attacking the Hungarian government, which has been crucified with all its might over the last few months. [[László Sebian-Petrovski: The money was stolen!]] discussed how we could agree with the Commission. Yesterday, Katalin Czech was able to bring up additional points that the Commission itself did not ask for. Well, here's where you keep me professionally and humanly. So the question here is that we want to help the Hungarian people, we want to help this country receive EU money or not. These measures, implemented by the Hungarian Government, are the Commission's expectations. I would particularly like to ask that the rest of the time that the Balliberal Friends of the European Parliament will throw at us, we try to minimize it morally because what happened yesterday was a cabaret organized by you, and it is an infinite shame. In the end, Didier Reynders felt extremely ill and defended the Hungarian government against your Balliberal friends in the European Parliament. I would never be able to sell my country out and put my country in that position. Shame on you because your friends are working hard on this, and the Ministry of Justice, the Prime Minister's Office, our wallets are working hard to meet these demands on time. I wouldn't have said anything if I were you. [[Depreciation in opposition ranks. Zoltán Vajda: Shame on you!]] There's a reason. I would like to stress the fact that, on the basis of the mandate of the Conditional Regulation, the European Commission launched the procedure in April this year, and the Government remains firmly committed to adopting, implementing and applying the measures taken. It is in the interest of both parties, the Commission and the Hungarian Government, that the process can be successfully completed in a satisfactory manner, in accordance with the requirements of the Hungarian constitutional order and with the EU legal system. This procedure is accompanied by this bill, one of the main elements of which is the Secretary of State and the Directorate-General for Auditing European Grants presented by my fellow Member Mr János Kiss. As regards the DG, the main content is that the institution will continue to operate as an autonomous administrative body and, as such, the performance of its tasks is completely independent and cannot be directed by another person or body in its function. It will perform its task separately from other bodies and without any influence. As a guarantee of accountability, the proposal also establishes the annual reporting obligation of the Directorate-General to Parliament, and makes its officials subject to the law on bodies with special status and the status of persons employed by them. The submission shall also specify in detail the functions of the Directorate-General and the official procedures in which it acts, as well as the inspection, control and audit tools it is required to use. The bill also includes amendments to the law on criminal proceedings. In this context, it will be possible for the newly established Integrity Authority to submit a motion for review or a repeated motion for revision where the competent authority has decided to reject the complaint or to terminate the procedure in the event of a substantiated suspicion of a major offence involving the exercise of public authority or the management of public assets. [[11.10]] I would like to remind you that, following the Government's motion and the initiative of the Parliament, the Constitutional Court decided in its decision at the beginning of November that the possibility of a newly institutionalised review and indictment within the category of prosecutions is in line with constitutional requirements and does not violate the principle of the prosecution's principle. The Constitutional Court's decision strengthens the legal validity and legality of the corrective measures taken by the Government, thereby enforcing the rule of law, which should lead to the conclusion of the conditioning procedure. Dear Parliament, The submission also includes a supplement to the Act on the Right of Information Self-determination and Freedom of Information, which establishes a new central information public data register interface accessible to anyone on which the debtors would disclose their specific public interest and public interest management data. The proposal serves to further strengthen the public by covering the entire range of budgetary bodies, with the exception of national security services, the obligation to publish on the surface. Dear House, The presentation, as the other related corrective measures and commitments agreed and negotiated with the Commission, reflect the government's constructive and focused attitude towards agreement, which has been recognised by EU Commissioner Didier Reynders in recent days. For the government, Hungary, the interests of the Hungarian people are the most important. It is in the interest of Hungarian citizens to have access to the EU financial assistance they deserve, so KDNP supports the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-22-46	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász. I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Vajda, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2022-11-22-47	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Colleagues, Dear House, Before I turn to my thoughts about the bill itself, I would like to make a point in advance. Today we are going to talk about a number of legislative proposals with the title of amendments or such at the request of the European Commission. I have two thoughts that I would like to say here in the morning, as we are spending all day together today, and we are going to talk about more of these laws. One of the things I would like to say before is that we all, I think, are sitting on either side of Parliament, on any side of the horseshoe, we all think that the money from the European Union is due to us, which is ours. That's what I can say on my own behalf. That's what I certainly think about this. However, I can fully accept that the decision-makers in Brussels do not want to give this away as long as we have a government that steals this money. The difference between you and us is that we think that the Hungarian people should have this money, so we should have it, and that is why the decision-makers in Brussels are asking for decisions that at least provide some basis for this. So the money is due to us, I think, but it belongs to the Hungarian people. The other thing I would like to say before I speak specifically about this law is the wording in the title of this draft law and the wording in the titles of some other draft laws to be discussed today, which, as I have just mentioned, is an amendment to the Commission's request for an effective conclusion of the procedure; the title of this draft law and the title of other draft laws to be negotiated today, once again in such a beautiful way: amendments adopted or proposed at the request of the European Commission in order to conclude the procedure effectively. If you'd asked me for advice on how to address a law, I wouldn't have suggested it to you, but you don't ask me for advice, I don't have a problem with that, although I'm saying it in retrospect that I don't think it's a good idea to put it in the title that we just want to accept it in such a compulsive way, it's just a compulsion, we wouldn't really want it on our own. In fact, we, say, wouldn't want to, I mean, our, your respected pro-government fidesz and what is the other party? Representatives of KDNP. So Fidesz and KDNP wouldn't really want to adopt such a bill; they wouldn't really want to stop theft; they wouldn't really want to, say, create an anti-corruption authority, and you wouldn't even accept the term anti-corruption, but they put in such a very interesting magic word. So above all, before I say a few words about the specific law, I wanted to say these two thoughts: one of the few legislative proposals that we are discussing today is that I would like them to clearly see that we are entitled to the money from the EU, but we must accept that if the decision-makers who are sitting in Brussels do not want to give it to a government that steals it. My other general idea is that I don't think it's smart to say in a bill that you're doing this because you're under duress is that you don't really want to do it. Let's move on to this law, T/2033. Bill No. 1! First, I would like to make my general point, and even my verdict about it, and then, in some strange ways, I would like to go back to the details in a few sentences. The government has already submitted a dozen, if I count correctly, dozens of proposals to us here, the Parliament, in order to convince the European Union that you can provide adequate guarantees for these systemic corruption problems in Hungary. It is clear that the Commission, the decision-makers sitting there, is not convinced of the effectiveness of the proposals that have been adopted so far, that they can see through you and see through the fidesz bluff. They see that in practice they hardly mean anything, and these new laws are essentially no guarantee of anything. And time is pushing the Hungarian government more and more, and we are already risking losing billions and billions of euros because of your fault, which is my country, Hungary, because of your mistake; my country will lose billions of euros if you do not know, but to close a good part of the proceedings this year. This is how we continue, so far, that the MSZP has always held a position with regard to the proposals for agreement and their amendments, because you have to correct the government's mistake and you have to correct it. After my general introduction, I would like to look at the five themes of the amending provisions, how I see these five issues, what they concern, and I would like to say this briefly. Thank you for your patience. First of all, the bill provides for the possibility that this Integrity Authority, which was not dared to call an anti-corruption authority, may submit a motion for revision or a retrial motion. In view of the constitutional requirements, this body is still not entitled to file an indictment, in which case the bill allows any natural or legal person to enter the proceedings after the appropriate publication process in the absence of another proposer. The second issue, I see, is that you also put such a repeated override into the procedure. This means that if an investigation initiated or conducted on the basis of a review has been reopened by the determining authority, the persons who have submitted the previous motion for review shall submit a retrial motion to the investigating judge in order to challenge the decision to terminate. And if, on the basis of the retrial motion, the investigating judge finds once again that the decision to terminate the investigation has not been substantiated, then the possibility of filing an indictment will be opened. The third point I see from the five is that the bill also completely excludes the possibility of recourse to legal remedies against any judicial decision taken in this separate procedure. The fourth subject I see is that the amendments, accompanied by an appropriate amendment of the Criminal Register Act, also address the question of whether persons who become accused of a new separate procedure in respect of the subject of criminal proceedings should be placed in the same legal position as the replacement private proceedings, i.e. they should not be included in criminal records until final conviction or should not be considered as persons subject to criminal proceedings for the purposes of the adverse consequences laid down in other laws. This fifth issue, which I see, justifies the amendment of the transitional provision, is the last of the new practice of the Constitutional Court following the adoption of the bill. In so-called restoration cases, 23/2022 by the Constitutional Court Ab stated that the change of the procedural rule concerned to the customer in pending cases is contrary to the prohibition of retroactive legislation and therefore to Article B of the Fundamental Law. [[11.20]] The Constitutional Court has stated that a law may not only constitute a breach of that prohibition if the legislation has been put into effect retroactively by the legislator, but also if the entry into force has not taken place retroactively, but the provisions of the law must also be applied to relations established prior to the entry into force of the law, as expressly provided for in that provision. Therefore, on the basis of this decision, it is necessary to ensure that the situation of the defendants in the ongoing criminal proceedings is not undermined by the transitional provision concerned, i.e. the regulation should not be ad malam partem. Once again, in summary and so much I wanted to tell you about the details, returning to the beginning of what I have to say, the problem was created by you, you, the government, are responsible for not having the EU's money for us at the moment, because the European Union does not trust you, you are the barriers to reaching our beloved country and the people of Hungary with the EU's resources. You will have to solve this problem, and it is your responsibility and our faction will not be able to support this by voting in favour. [[Dr. Dawn Juhász: That's what we thought.]] Thank you for listening. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition. It's an interrogation from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-22-48	Thank you very much, Congressman Zoltán Vajda. I now give the floor to Mr András Fekete-Győr, the lead speaker of the Group of the Momentum.
u2022-11-22-49	Thank you very much. Good afternoon, fellow Members. One of them said in this debate that it hurts you that they're not on the government, but it doesn't hurt that we're not on the government. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] The Hungarian voters, the Hungarian people, are hurt because we are not in government. (Interjections from the ranks of the governing parties. ) Hungarian teachers, Hungarian students, are hurt because we are not in government. It hurts Hungarian small entrepreneurs [[Intercoms from the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] The Hungarian voters, the Hungarian people, are hurt because we are not in government. (Interjections from the ranks of the governing parties. ) Hungarian teachers, Hungarian students, are hurt because we are not in government. It hurts Hungarian small entrepreneurs (interviews from the ranks of government parties. The president's ringing. That we're not on the government. It hurts those Hungarians that we are not on the government, who have to suffer 76 percent of the cost of bread each month. It hurts these Hungarians that we are not in government. (Interjections from the ranks of the governing parties.) If and if Fidesz were not in government now, but a European party with a civic commitment, Hungary would have already received EU funds. [[Interjections and acquaintance from the ruling parties.]] Hungary would have been able to receive EU funds for a long time, with money to support the livelihood of Hungarian people, and we could support the start-up of the Hungarian economy. This would have been in Hungary's interest. That's not what people decided, that's right, a country learned from it, I think [[Intercoms from the ruling parties. Péter Cseresnyés: The decision has not been made in 12 years!]] And next time, they won't make the same mistake. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] Then my fellow Member, Mr Hajnalka Juhász, said or asked for it, that the poor Prime Minister's Office and the members of the government and Tibor Navracsics were criticized by anyone, because they worked so hard to bring the money home. But, Congresswoman, that's your job. You are in trouble, the country is in trouble because you stole from the Hungarians and you stole from the Europeans. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] This is why Hungary does not receive EU funds. Congresswoman, that's the least I can do, but the least you can do is work to get this money home. (Interjections from the ranks of the governing parties. ) Well, the fact that some of my fellow Members criticize the process that leads to this is the right of their hearts. They want this to be a non-corruption country. They think of themselves, fellow Members, because they think that the new political generation thinks that they do not want to live in a corrupt country. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] This is what the new political generation thinks of itself. András Lánczi said that what is called corruption is the main policy of Fidesz said by the Corvinus Rector. The new political generation doesn't want to live in a country like this. (Interjections from the ranks of the governing parties. ) We are a transparent, non-corruption [[There are constant interruptions from the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] we are working for a country, and if and if the European Union calls on the Hungarian government to take account of various measures, such as this 17, it will be a small step forward on this path, but our faction will vote for them, all 17 proposals will be voted by our faction. I am not going to go into the details of this law, because I think that it will require a change of government, system and era, so that there are no oligarchs in Hungary, so that there is no political crime in Hungary, so that we do not have to take State Secretarys of the Ministry of Justice in handcuffs, because it took millions from the head of the executive department every month. We work for a country like this. So I don't have any illusions. We want the EU money to come home, that's what we want. That is why we should vote in favour of these 17 measures, including this, and we have the respectful request that you do not spoil this, because if you do, we will not get that money. There are many, so there are 2,300 plus 3000 billion forints on the table, which you can take from us, and if you do not implement these laws well, that if you do not have sufficient independence from this body, which we are talking about, these authorities will not receive this money. So you have the responsibility. We'll give you our vote and our vote, but you have the responsibility. As far as the country is concerned, it is a non-corruption, clean and transparent country, and the new political generation is working every day for the change of government, for the change of regime and for the change of era. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of MSZP and DK.]]
u2022-11-22-50	Thank you very much, Congressman András Fekete-Győr. I now give the floor to Mr Péter Balassa, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2022-11-22-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I welcome the invited guests, and I apologize for the need to hear such a debate, such an unworthy debate on such an important issue. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] But as Horace says, let's cut right to the chase. As a sportsman, I believe the facts, and I see you always refer to the facts. Then whether Hungary has done well or not, whether it goes forward or back, let's take a look at that! I don't know, you remember what the minimum wage was in 2020. 161,000 forints, I'll help you. The euro was HUF 330, which means that in 2020 we received around EUR 487 for this. What do you think the minimum wage is in 2022? I guess you know, 200,000 forints. Counting EUR 410 is worth the same or less of our money. I would like to note this quietly to you in order to refer to the facts, how Hungary is doing, how it is doing, and how everything is fine in Hungary. We are talking about corruption, we are talking about the economy and we are talking about a lot of things, but let us not keep the facts silent and think deeply about the fact that they stand up in these benches about where Hungary has come in about two years. But to look at the agenda and start at the same time, the Director-General of the Directorate-General for European Aid Audit is appointed by the President of the Republic for five years on the proposal of the Prime Minister. If you're talking about independence, we could stop at this point, because everything that's going on before and after this provision is pretty much incidental. On the basis of the Commission's observations on the basis of the agreement with the European Commission, it presents, at the request of the European Commission, its proposals, justifications, and the most varied turns, a series of convulsive efforts and pretense measures that have been and are being carried out in the past. It is worth talking about the fact that there is sometimes a mistake in great effort, since it has not yet entered into force, the rules relating to the function and operation of the Integrity Authority need to be amended already. It is therefore fundamentally questionable that the proposal actually grants autonomous status to the Directorate-General Auditing of European Grants, in other words: can any body in Hungary today be functionally and professionally independent in addition to the arrangement known to all, and cannot be directed in its function by another person or body; can it carry out its task separately from other bodies and free of any influence if its leader is appointed by the President of the Republic on a proposal from the Prime Minister? The question is poetic, we all know the answer, but if we walk out onto the street, probably ten out of ten people say it can't be independent. I do not think that the European Commission would think otherwise, because we can create any legislation, we can comply with the European Union 100 times, in fact we have not made any progress in the so-called fight against corruption, the so-called fight, which, according to you, is a so-called fight. You are currently legally ensuring that only your own cadres can take the lead in the right places, or, if this does not work, we are faced with a decision mechanism such as the Integrity Authority: an independent president, if only the Presidency decision exists, where the president can be voted out by his two vice-presidents at any time. Does such principles even make sense? Last week, at least according to the government decision on this issue, the government discussed and adopted the anti-fraud and corruption strategy for sources from the European Union. I would add that they also provide for the mandate of the Minister for Territorial Development to amend the strategy on the basis of consultations with the representatives of the European Commission. I still think it's funny. The everyday slang just says, "Whatever, let's just keep going." Unfortunately, it doesn't matter what the 68-page strategy is, which the government has certainly discussed thoroughly and in a row, because the institutional system and the way in which it is appointed as its current example provide you with sufficient assurance that nothing will change, everything will remain the same. [[11.30]] Anyway, let's just keep going, but where? Towards the new EU funds that you condemn on your way and way, come as soon as possible, since the renovation of the castle of Rákay Philip on Mount Badacsony cannot, let alone finish, but does not even begin. This would indeed be scandalous if the basalt cube stone outskirts road to the villa had already been made out of half a billion forints, where the check was also held by the European Union. But I'm sorry, I'm running ahead, I mean, on this half-billion-dollar square-stone road, as we're going on, we're touching the Rákay villa, and Kristóf Szatmáry's Fidesz MP's modest winery and hotel, which he received HUF 127,6 million EU funding for its construction. Yeah, no matter how alien and delicate you are, that's true. We are talking about the Parliamentary Representative of Fidesz, who is also the State Secretary of the State Secretary responsible for economic regulation of the Ministry of National Economy. My apologies, I bore you with such little things, but your commitment to the fight against corruption can only be truly understood if we see practical examples that really, truly show that you have been fighting corruption for a long time. Under normal legal framework and public status, the proposal submitted would be forward-looking compared to the status of the EUTAF so far, but unfortunately, this cannot be said in Hungary today due to the circumstances known to everyone. If I have started with a quote from Horatius, I would also like to finish by saying that it confuses something existing and fictional, but so that from the beginning the middle and the middle do not fail. All your words are true of you, as well as the proposal. You can tell Philip, Christopher, and so many Philip and Christopher that they don't have to worry, and then Tibor will take care of this quickly, modify the strategy, prepare, because soon the money will arrive, and the new investments will start. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2022-11-22-52	Thank you, Congressman Péter Balassa. I give the floor to Congressman László Lóránt Keresztes, who will be lead speaker on behalf of the LMP. You have the floor.
u2022-11-22-53	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Indeed, we need to talk about a bill that amends legislation or laws that have already been amended in the last few weeks, and in the event of such a bill, we should, in principle, talk about what we agree on in detail, what we disagree on, but here the keynote speakers and the pro-government speakers have already turned the debate a little bit. So let me have a short reaction. Fidesz and KDNP also referred to the opposition and referred to debates in the European Parliament. I do not take it personally when talking about the left; you obviously mean the entire opposition, but the Green Party of LMP Hungary does not regard itself as a left-wing party, and otherwise we have always been very firm about our position on the European Union's resources that have been put at risk because of your serious corruption. Even though we do not have a European Parliament representation, so we cannot participate directly in such debates in the European Parliament, but we have always said very firmly that because of government corruption, i.e. because of your government's historic corruption, and because of this corruption that the government has established, we would never support measures to harm Hungarian people. So we do not support measures in Brussels policy either at home or in any other way, so that the Hungarian people will suffer this brutal corruption because of you. But it is rather outrageous when you talk about the fact that, in general, opposition representatives would not support a more effective response to corruption. Since 2010, the LMP has seen anti-corruption measures, raising awareness of corruption as one of its most important tasks, as well as the submission of proposals that would actually provide or would have provided for a more effective response to corruption. These proposals have been permanently canceled over the past twelve and a half years and have almost never been supported. Very rarely, in minimal cases, there was an amendment that you have accepted, but basically you have ignored this fight. And now the situation is clear. I think that it is outrageous in itself that we have been governed for 12 and a half years to the point that Hungary is in huge trouble, because because of your corruption, there is a threat to the resources that really belong to the Hungarian people that Hungary needs. So that's the basic situation, that's why the resources are in danger. You have denied this for many years: you have tried to set it up with all kinds of propaganda operations, you have tried to adjust the situation so that money could be put at risk here because of some ideologically based measure, although it is quite clear that because of corruption, and you have already recognised it in the legislation you have described and adopted, because you yourself have voted on proposals that describe the lack of effectiveness in the fight against corruption and that it is necessary to amend them. I think it's really, really talkative about how these laws are named. Even though we have always called and will draw attention to the damage caused by corruption and the extent of corruption, I would add that we have never been stingy with criticisms about serious corruption cases affecting governments before 2010, we have always supported any proposals that point forward. So, even at this time, when there is this little transparent negotiation between you and the European Commission, the proposals that come before Parliament are usually made by us with improvements, and these proposals, which would change from the otherwise difficult situation to a better direction, would therefore constitute progress, we have supported and supported by our vote. By the way, this motion is, in principle, so obviously, in agreement with the content of opposition criticisms that, in this situation, it would not be necessary to have amendments of this scale, that there are indeed forward-looking elements here that we can support. But how successful is the fight against corruption that you have announced at the level of words? Here is Secretary of State Répássy, we have talked about this more than once during the debates here and in writing about how much it symbolizes the level of corruption of this government by bringing corruption close to the top of the Ministry of Justice; your predecessor is accused by the prosecution of serious corruption crimes and asked for eight years for the Fidesz Völner Pál; he was asked by the prosecution for eight years, but he is still at large. We can see that the current President of the Hungarian Court Executive Faculty, who is an important member of the executive mafia, has already established a corruption relationship with the second member of the Ministry of Justice, former Deputy Minister Judit Varga, in 2018, according to the prosecutor's office. Well, for years, it may have been that the second man of the Justice Department gets bribes from this man, according to the DA's office, and he's still the President of the Executive Faculty. I think that this situation is quite outrageous, and it fundamentally violates, fundamentally destroys public confidence in justice, that such an important position can continue to be held by a man who has been accused of such serious corruption by the prosecution and would otherwise be put in prison for ten years. You're talking about the man who's been in custody for over a year, aren't you? You may not be able to exercise your executive activities, but you will continue to protect him with the wrong laws so that he can remain in position. In this debate, perhaps in July, Minister of State Répássy said that the situation that is now under the law cannot be tolerated is that György Schadl can continue to be President of the Faculty of Executives of the Court. Well, I have tabled an amendment which would otherwise adapt to his executive activity, the conditions for filling this office, by voting on such a vote or amendment in Hungarian, so that a man considered corrupt by the prosecutor's office can be removed from this position, but you voted against it. I asked you in writing, Mr Secretary of State, how you feel about this proposal, and you replied briefly that it will be the task of the Justice Committee to take this proposal into consideration and then we will see. Well, the Justice Committee didn't include him in a series of subjects, and by the way, he referred to the presumption of innocence in a situation where we know exactly how many lives have been destroyed by corrupt executives. Well, we wrote in our motion that it is really important to assume innocence, but it cannot extend to the fact that a man who has been charged with such a serious charge, because, by the way, he is accused of crimes being prosecuted by public prosecutors, and you cannot continue to hold me in this important position, but you have done so. And by the way, a few days ago, at the Legislative Committee meeting, they refused to include this proposal in a series of subjects, so it was clearly your political decision that the person who, according to the prosecutor's office, gave bribes to the former Deputy Minister of Justice for years could continue to be the President of the Hungarian Faculty of Executives of the Court. So, closed parentheses, we can say that this symbolizes how serious you are about the fight against corruption. [[11.40]] Turning to this bill: this, I think, raises a lot of questions about the amendment of laws, which, by the way, will be on Monday this year. [[Sic!]] I've been announced, and they're reaching into laws that had to be rewritten a few weeks ago. But I would like to ask you one thing in particular: this is what the pro-government speaker spoke about, and also the secretary of state spoke, and this is the prosecution procedure. One of the provisions of this proposal, which is perhaps the most remarkable, is that the government wants to remove the cases that are being carried over from the prosecution procedure. Therefore, this could only be applied in cases where the complaint takes place after 2022 de-cember 31. Here they refer to various decisions of the Constitutional Court, but falsely, because they cannot be related to this, and that the Constitutional Court has already approved this procedure itself. So explain this, Mr Secretary of State, or this is what the pro-government Members explain, why they do not apply this possibility to pending cases when it is clear that there is no constitutional limit to this. You can see how many and how many years there have been shocking corruption cases. I will mention only one thing: the investigation started in 2015, with quite a lot of media coverage, along with the Bridge to the world of work. Flórián Farkas, their former representative, was the manager of this project, and I understand that since then, in 2015, the investigation has been an extremely high level of corruption, and they haven't even questioned Florian Farkas. How can it be that such cases are in the system for so long, and we can't even get to the point where, let's say, politicians are not even interrogated in such cases? But likewise, if you accept this proposal in this way, either on the Völner case or on a multitude of other matters which otherwise concern your current or former party partners, they will no longer be enforceable. We do not understand this, and we do not see any explanation for this. Of course, as I have already said, there are small-scale proposals in this proposal, but there are forward-looking proposals. And I would also like to confirm that, along with the fact that LMP will always be a hard-core critic of the government because of the fact that it has created such a serious corruption situation, and thus endangering the EU's resources for Hungarian people, we will always support any proposals that, even if in small steps, improve the legislative environment and perhaps give us a better chance to combat corruption. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2022-11-22-54	Thank you very much, Congressman László Keresztes. The lead speakership circle is complete. There will be two minutes; first, Congressman Zsolt Nyitrai, Fidesz.
u2022-11-22-55	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Our country is a member of the European Union, we Hungarians have been here for over a thousand years in the heart of Europe. Hungary has fulfilled and fulfilled all its obligations in the EU; Brussels, however, says that we are imposing few new conditions on them from the Hungarians. We have had long negotiations and discussions with the European Commission, and we have made a 17-point commitment at the end of this series of negotiations. The implementation of these has begun. We keep our word, we keep our promise, we do not remain an open professional issue after negotiations with the European Commission. I trust that after 17 points of engagement, there will be no 18, 19 or 20 points in the future. This is also important, because, for example, if we were to receive these resources that are due to Hungarians and to Hungary, then we would be able to carry out the greatest educator's wage increase of all time. I ask the left-wing parties and their representatives to support this effort, and do not prevent Hungary, the Hungarian families, and the Hungarian citizens from getting what is due to them. And allow me to respond to the question of MSZP at the end of my two-minute comment. Our MSZP fellow Member stabbed him, hurt the KDNP. I can say that the Christian Democratic People's Party was founded much earlier than the Hungarian Socialist Party, and by the looks of it, it will survive much longer. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-22-56	Thank you very much, Zsolt Nitrai. For two minutes, Congressman Brenner Koloman will have the floor.
u2022-11-22-57	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to say that, as my fellow Member, Mr Balassa, as a responsible conservative force, we have already voted in favour of any proposal that will continue to be voted in favour of European Union funds for Hungarian citizens. However, allow me to say two things. On the one hand, in response to my fellow Member, Mr Nitrai, no, it is not the 17 points that need to be checked, my dear fellow Member, but the rule of law in our country must be restored, the system of brakes and counterweights that you, Fidesz, building up the one-party overpower, systematically invaded the Hungarian state power, culture and education in 12 years. Now, let's get the resources we need. And you're endangering it. For all Hungarian citizens, in the current particularly difficult economic and social crisis, you, the 135 courageous Members, are putting these EU funds at risk. [[Robert Szigó: Don't lie!]] You're a liar and your Secretary of State of Latorca, my dear fellow Member [[Robert Szigó: Don't lie! It's not like that!]] For the record, because you said here yesterday, in this sacred place, that the problem was that on Saturday, President Márton Gyöngyösi went to the Integrity Authority, and we all know that he opened on Monday. You can't even get in there on Monday, my fellow Members with Fidesz. Secretary of State did not speak the truth yesterday, but we will continue to bomb this Integrity Authority with every corruption case, because it must be revealed to everyone that you want to take serious action against Fidesz corruption or not. The test of pudding will be to eat, dear comrades of Fidesz, and I think it's not looking good for you. Now you can prove that the money of Hungarian citizens is more important or your own wallet. Thank you for your attention. [[Robert Szigó: Shame on you!]]
u2022-11-22-58	Thank you, Congressman Brenner Koloman. [[Dr. Brenner to Zsigó Róbert Koloman: Shame on you! You're the representative of a fidesz one-party mansion! Róbert Zsigó intervenes. Dr. Brenner Koloman: Home in the pub, my friend. Robert Szigó: We are not friends! The president's ringing the bell.]] For two minutes, I give the floor to Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász, the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2022-11-22-59	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'm not sure I'm proud of Martin Gyöngyösi. By the way, in his last speech, he explained that the rule of law is not a kind of liberal remedy. I think and would also respond to my fellow Member, Mr László Keresztes, that this dialogue does not necessarily start without ideology, because the rule of law in the 27 Member States is extremely complex because the constitutional arrangement of each Member State must be taken into account. The other is that Zoltán Vajda, our MSZP fellow Member, is no longer here, but I would warn him that many people out there see that this regulation is not appropriate. I think you have a close relationship with your fellow European Balliberal Members outside, what they need to dictate, but these sentences need to be handled very, very carefully. I think that these debates have revealed that he wants to help the Hungarian people and who does not want to help them. I would ask all my fellow Members, pro-government and opposition representatives to think of the Hungarian people when they will vote on this bill according to their conscience. We have done everything we can and will do for constructive dialogue. That's what this past period has been about. And let me return to one sentence: in the context of yesterday's European Parliament resolution debate, Didier Reynders gave a positive opinion on the Hungarian Government and acknowledged the efforts that the Commission had asked for. I think that this is the most important confirmation for us at this time of tension and extremely difficult time. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-22-60	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. For two minutes, Congressman Gergely Arató shall have the floor, DK.
u2022-11-22-61	Thank you very much. I am sure that I agree on two things with the congresswoman and the Fidesz Members before her. The fact is that, on the one hand, it is really important that these EU funds are available because they have put the economy in such a difficult position that it needs, as a last straw, to finally have these resources available and to restore market confidence at least to some extent in the Hungarian government. On the other hand, we also agree that what is important is the interests of the Hungarian people. The debate between us is that we believe that the interests of the Hungarian people are different from those of you. You believe that it is in the interests of the Hungarian people that, as Congressman Nyitrai has said with unsearching honesty, they will check the 17 points formally, without any change in substance, that they will effectively reduce corruption, that they will start re-establishing the rule of law. [[11.50]] And we say that it is in the interests of the Hungarian people that, if these EU funds are already available, they should not disappear in the NER's money drains, among your oligarch friends, at the companies of the Prime Minister's family, at the companies of the Prime Minister's gas mechanic, and I could continue indefinitely, but it is in the interest of the Hungarian people and the Hungarian people that, if these resources are available, they are actually used for the purposes for which they are given: education, health, environmental protection, the development of the road network, the promotion of businesses. And this requires a substantial change, but these fake bill proposals, which you have submitted and which are constantly being modified along the way, according to current tactical interests, and according to which oligarch is speaking right now, yeah, take this out, because this is a problem, it doesn't help. So we do not support these fake legislative proposals because we want a real change, a real rule of law, and we want to make sure that EU funds are available. The easiest way to do this would be to join the European Public Prosecutor's Office, which we have often suggested, which is still the most effective solution today. Thank you very much.
u2022-11-22-62	Thank you very much, Congressman Gergely Arató. Dear Parliament, Any further speeches may be made within the remaining timeframes and may be monitored on the meeting room table. I give the floor to Member János Kiss, Fidesz, as an additional speaker.
u2022-11-22-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, First of all, let me respond to what a slightly heated left-wing Member said when he said that the law does not prevail in Hungary. I must reject this: in Hungary the law prevails, Hungary is a complete democracy, and Hungary is a full rule of law. So when you are trying to imply that this bill and the laws resulting from the bill are necessary to bring Hungary into the state of law or to a legal status that provides the financial background for the use of public funds, I must tell you that that is not why this bill is necessary. Hungary is a state of law at the moment, and Hungary is currently in the process of financial control and financial sanctioning of the use of public funds. This bill is necessary because, at the moment, Hungary must assess its national interests, and at the moment it is in Hungary's national interest to have access to the EU funds which, by the way, belong to Hungary, within Hungary, to Hungarian people, Hungarian institutions, Hungarian companies and Hungarian companies. Hungary needs to assess the need to reconcile national interests with a compromise that, at the end of the day, creates a fair agreement! to the European Union, which does not give up our national sovereignty, thus establishing a fair agreement with the European Union in order to obtain these EU funds. I do not think it is possible to argue in Hungary today that Hungary needs these EU funds at the moment, and not only at this moment, but also in general, because these funds belong to us. I also have to say that I thought that I should now just say that I think that this bill would have given the left-wing opposition an excellent opportunity to prove that Hungarian people are important to him, because at the end of this bill and the laws resulting from it, there are real Hungarian people. You could have proved in this debate that these Hungarian people are important to you, and compared to this, the primary speaker on the left made it clear at the very beginning that the left will not support this bill. Then, of course, the secondary, tertiary, quarterly, fifth-level keynote speakers arrived, and they started to interrupt the picture a little bit, but the truth is, dear fellow Members, there on the left, that you are crying together and laughing together. There is no such thing as standing up in a parliamentary debate about a bill and saying everything, "A," "C," "B." There is no such thing in reality, but it is not possible to draw the legal conclusion or political conclusion that you would draw from it, that when we voted on the 17-point package, there were those who didn't come and didn't vote, there were those who abstained, there were those who voted against, there were those who voted in favour, so they tried all the possible forms of how they could relate to this bill, and then everyone later said that they said about themselves and the left-wing block that they voted in the same way as they did for you in the particular debate. The truth is, however, that the left did not support the government's proposals when it had to vote on the primary package, which served the agreement with Brussels; it did not support it. If you sum up the votes cast in that case, then it comes to the conclusion that the majority of your parliamentary representatives did not support it, i.e. the only political and legal conclusion that the left did not support the previous legislative package, and once again, after the current primary left-wing speech, it can be concluded that the left will not support this bill. So what does that mean? It follows that if it were on the left, this bill would not be a law. If it were on the left, there would be no law from the bill, and it follows that there would be no agreement with Brussels, and if there were no agreement with Brussels, then it would be that the EU funds that go to us by law would not arrive in Hungary, and if these EU funds did not arrive in Hungary, then countless Hungarian people, countless Hungarian families, countless Hungarian institutions, companies and companies would be in a difficult situation. I have to say that history has given the left a huge opportunity. It is so rare that an election is held in April, then it takes six months to wait, and a political group can actually outgrow itself and finally break up with the policy that has been described so far and finally side with the Hungarian people. History has offered you an opportunity, and you have missed this opportunity, and you have made it clear that you will miss it, you will not take this opportunity, you will not stand on the party of the Hungarian people. One follows: the Hungarian left is there as it was six months ago, the Hungarian left is where it was held in April 2022. So when my fellow Member, Mr Fekete-Győr, says that he hopes that the turn will come, and that at some point the Hungarian people will regret their decision in April, I can tell you, Mr President, that this will have to wait. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-22-64	Thank you very much, Congressman János Kiss. I give the floor to Congressman Róbert Zsigó for two minutes, Fidesz.
u2022-11-22-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Gergely Arató and Mr Brenner Koloman's comments led me to say a few sentences. One: Mr Harvester and you generally say that Hungary is not a rule of law today. I can answer that, honourable Member, and you remember this: do you know when there was no rule of law in Hungary? Between 2006 and 2010, more precisely on 23 October 2006, when your Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsány led a horse-riding attack on the Hungarian people, and shot out people's eyes with rubber bullets. Then there was no rule of law in Hungary! We are also faced with the disappearance of EU funds. I would like to draw your attention to what all the Hungarian people know, that the Gyurcsány-Bajnai government was the most corrupt government of all time. I would remind you of the case of subway four, remind you of the case of the nocical boxes, and there are still cases that might make that clear. Brenner Koloman, who is not sitting here, and I would like to remind you that, after their former president was fired, I am obliged to address the right-wing representatives on TV, Peter James was fired, then Márton Gyöngyösi became President of Jobbik, the Márton Gyöngyösi, who here in Parliament suggested that Jewish representatives be listed, and who otherwise campaigned for leaving the EU. I would like to tell the good people not to fear us for European values, but for themselves. And he was talking about comrades. I can tell the right-wing Members that their comrades are sitting here, the left-wing Members who were on the list led by Ferenc Gyurcsány started the election together and failed together, because people expressed their views on them on 3 April. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-22-66	Thank you, Congressman Róbert Zsigó. For two minutes, Congressman Gergely Arató will have the floor. [[12.00]]
u2022-11-22-67	Thank you very much. Mr Zsigo's comment does not deserve an answer [[Robert Szigó: Then don't answer!]] At this level, I'm not arguing with you anymore. I have to say, he didn't have one true word, which is a great achievement even for Fidesz. On the other hand, Mr János Kiss's comment deserves a very good answer. On the one hand, I would like to clarify that, as foreign as the concept of a multi-party system is to you, the leader of the Democratic Coalition speaks not on behalf of other parties, but on behalf of the Democratic Coalition. As regards who would like or who would really do so that EU funds would come to Hungary, I would like to remind you that the Democratic Coalition has submitted a package of laws that actually restore the rule of law, a package of laws that included accession to the European Public Prosecutor's Office, the restoration of the independence of the courts, the restoration of the independence of public media, and strict rules of conflict of interest. You have not been willing to put this proposal on the agenda, and this proposal would only have put you and your friends, relatives and business partners at a disadvantage. I have to say that you were before the election that you could have broken off with the policy that you have been following for 12 years, and in which you have taken away the essence of the functioning of democracy by means of legislation and outlaws, you have taken control of the government. You are the ones who had to choose between their own pockets and the pockets of Hungarian citizens, and chose their own pockets, who refused to take any meaningful action against corruption. Instead, they continue to dance peacock dance to see if they can't hear what you are saying about Brussels here in Parliament. This doesn't work anymore. It is you who threaten to give Hungarian citizens access to the EU's resources.
u2022-11-22-68	Thank you, Congressman Gergely Arató. For two minutes, I give the floor to Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász, the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2022-11-22-69	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to my fellow harvester's speech. As you are not a member of the Committee on European Affairs, I would like to inform you that the Commission has not asked for accession to the European Public Prosecutor's Office. We've told you this many times. This is your idea. One more thing: under EU law, this is so-called enhanced cooperation. Therefore, the Member State should not be obliged to, voluntarily decide whether to join the European Public Prosecutor's Office or not, to be a member of its 22 Member States and the other 5 do not. In 2021, the EPPO, the European Public Prosecutor's Office, reported that Hungary was one of the most active members of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, cooperated with the EPPO in 17 cases, in Denmark, Ireland, in 2-2 cases, Sweden cooperated in 4 cases, and, moreover, this year Laura Codruţa, President of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, stressed that the cooperation between the Hungarian Government and the European Public Prosecutor's Office was excellent, and that Hungary responded to the request of the authorities precisely and in time. This is not the way, I would like to emphasise this once again, the Commission has not asked for it. Let me highlight one element, because it has to be understood. At present, there is a huge struggle between the balance of the EU institutions in the European Union. The Commission is seeking to remove as much powers as possible from national parliaments, and the European Parliament is seeking the same. The European Public Prosecutor's Office shall mean the transfer of part of the criminal jurisdiction to the European Union. Some people agree... [[Gergely Harvesto: That's what you're afraid of!]] However, this is not an expectation on the part of the European Union or on the part of the European Commission in this current process, which we are discussing with the Commission. So it's completely unnecessary to bring this here. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-11-22-70	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. For two minutes, Mr. President Novak, Mi Hazank, belongs to the floor.
u2022-11-22-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I am sorry for this unworthy debate between Fidesz and DK about who is more servile, who is sleeping better with the European Union, who has made the rule of law better, which is the more corrupt party. As far as EU money is concerned, it should be for Hungary, and I think that as the European Union stands and goes, [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] Rather, we should prepare for life after the European Union, of course. As regards corruption, when there was greater corruption, Congressman Zsigó mentioned metro 4 on Fidesz's part, the metro crime, but by the way, the company of Lőrinc Mészáros can build 7 kilometers more expensive than metro 4 in connection with the expansion of the capacity of Ferencváros-Kelenföld, in addition, in a serious environmental way. So we managed to overcome that corruption, like staying on the subway right now. Although it is undoubtedly a fact that, as far as fundamental freedoms are concerned, there is close competition, because not only on 23 October 2006, but during the whole Gyurcsány-Bajnai regime, it was regular that Hungarian people were being protected, smothered, and even in blood, but in Hungarian history, most police proceedings were not launched in the 1950s, not in 2006 or in the surrounding years, but last March 15th, when, following our protest against the Covid dictatorship, you launched a record number of proceedings with the Hungarian police against protesters like us. So who are more restrictive of freedoms: in the years around 2006, we have undoubtedly faced harsher police violence, but what the current government is doing in the context of the inclusion in the new world order, the Covid dictatorship, is also not nothing. I would be happy if this debate did not continue on this point. Thank you.
u2022-11-22-72	Thank you very much, Congressman President Novak. The next speaker is László Keresztes Lóránt, LMP.
u2022-11-22-73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would not very much like to respond to Mr János Kiss's comments on the content. I think that when we talk about thousands of billions, about the loss of Hungarians, it is a shame to turn the debate in a direction where you tell us what we think and how we vote. Reality doesn't bother you. When we, say, support something and express it with our vote, you tell us that we did not support it. I think it's incomprehensible. So he got in the way of some kind of convulsion, I don't know, your communication is such a convulsion, and it doesn't matter to you what we say, what proposals we make in substance, what proposals we make, how we put it down... I don't know which of my fellow Members intervened. There may be Members on the opposition side who operate in the same way, but I do not think that this can explain that you generally ignore the way in which a parliamentary group operates, how, how seriously we take these motions and what we do in order to do, what we think is very important to Hungary and the Hungarian people. I think you should think about that, Congressman, that there is a place for a debate of this nature, which is completely out of line with reality. My fellow Member, Mr Hajnalka Juhász, and several members of the government spoke about what the European Commission is asking for, some not. I think it is very long, and perhaps not appropriate, but it would be an important debate, as my former colleague Novák mentioned, how much it is possible to accept the governance of the European Commission, when it is necessary to fight for the protection of our national sovereignty. We have a lot of these debates. Indeed, many times we have drawn attention to many cases where the government itself, claiming to be a freedom fighter, has given in to the European Commission, or not to the European Commission, but to gigantic multi-company companies, when they have given up national sovereignty. We can also think of free trade agreements here, and that you will sell out national sovereignty at any time without any substantial guarantees. But if we are talking about corruption, we really need to look at the situation with a magnifying glass on what the European Commission is asking for and what the Hungarian people expect. The European Commission is now trying to comply with you, otherwise it would be good to have the money. On the other hand, what is rightly expected of the Hungarian people, such as the enforcement mafia, is not important? We know the opinion of my fellow Member, Mr Hajnalka Juhász, Mr János Kiss, Secretary of State Répássy. Is it okay that, according to the prosecutor's office, since 2018, the second member of the Hungarian Ministry of Justice has been found with bribes by the President of the Faculty of Executive Court and persuaded to use his influence in a corrupt manner in accordance with his economic interests? Is it okay in Hungary today that this man can continue to be president of the Hungarian Court Executive Faculty in prison? According to the Secretary of State, this is an intolerable situation, but you have voted against twice the proposal which would bring this reproach, and the person who, by the way, is no longer entitled to act as an executive may continue to hold this important public-law position. Is it all right, fellow Members, that György Schadl is still the president of the Hungarian Executive Faculty of the Court of Justice, who, according to the D.A.'s office, controlled Judit Varga's deputy with bribes in his own interests? ! I think that this step should be taken, regardless of any agreement, any procedure, because the indignation about enforcement activities in Hungary is very justified and powerful. [[12.10]] By the way, you have acknowledged this, and how cynical it is that it was Pál Völner, who has spoken most loudly here in the last cycle about how much has to be changed in order not to be a hotbed for abuse. Even in such a situation, regardless of anyone's expectations, you will protect this man, protect György Schadl, and, by the way, on the basis of your decision made twice in the last two years, he may continue to be President of the Faculty of Executives of the Court. Now, I think that this is a violation of the sense of justice of the Hungarian people, and no matter what anyone expects of you, this situation should have been dealt with very quickly. I'm sorry you missed it. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2022-11-22-74	Thank you, Congressman László Keresztes. The next speaker is János Kiss, Member Fidesz.
u2022-11-22-75	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, In short, let me respond to the words of my fellow Christian Member. You asked me or you asked us not to interpret your votes, not to draw conclusions from that, but I can't do that, and I can't promise you that. The fact is that in April you, the six parties that belong to the Hungarian left-wing block, started the election together. They were on a list, a candidate for prime minister. You have obviously made a political alliance, and if I read the news well, you have not given up this political alliance to this day. From now on, we ask us not to continue to interpret you as a political assembly, as a unified political ally system, I do not know what you are based on, Congressman. If you make statements contrary to this, which show that this political set-up was no longer established in April, then, of course, I will also be able to rethink how to evaluate the votes cast in your benches. At the moment, I cannot appreciate it any other way, and that is the point in this debate if we are talking about this bill. The point, after all, is that the Hungarian people must see clearly that for this question, to agree with Brussels, to agree with Brussels, how to conclude a fair agreement, how to get to the point that the money that we should have had a long time ago is finally going to be given, how to deal with this main question. Who says yes and who says no? I understand that you will personally vote yes, I understand that. You are not personally representing and representing the left by yourself, but you represent the left through the alliance of the six parties that formed the alliance in April 2022 or before April 2022. This is for you, I don't know that as a historical burden, you will decide whether this is a burden to you or not, this would be a rating, and that is entirely your concern, and that is no longer my concern. That's something you'll somehow live to see how this works. I'm guessing that's a political experience every day. But as long as this alliance exists, and if I interpret it correctly, then it is not your single vote that counts on the question of how the Hungarian people decide which political group is related to this issue, but the combined opinion of the political group that you are involved in in the political assembly counts. The overall view of that political assembly was that they did not support this process the previous time. That's the thing, that's the truth. The votes cast shall be counted. So as long as this is so, and as long as we want to show the Hungarian people at the moment, Hungarian political parties and political groups do not know what they call their own relationship to the fundamental issues, I think this should be the starting point. So I have listened with great respect to your request, but I cannot promise you that I will not examine it through these glasses in the future, because I do not think that can be done through other glasses. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-22-76	Thank you, Congressman János Kiss. Dear Parliament, I'm going to ask if there's anyone else who'd like to take the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Tibor Pogácsás reporting for two minutes, Fidesz.
u2022-11-22-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear House, Hungary, since it has been a member of the European Union, has fulfilled all its obligations in order and in time. I therefore believe that it is not a question of debate that Hungary, having also made payments, has the same share of the European Union budget as any other EU Member State, after we have contributed to joint borrowing. The question of not receiving these subsidies for us is raised, I believe, of the European Union's institutional system to be referring to its operational problems. It suggests that the institutions of the European Union carry out a political order. In the last 12 years, there have been countless votes in Hungary, and in these elections, voters have made their views clear about what they think of Hungary, Hungary's development, and in these elections, Fidesz-KDNP has clearly received continuous support, and we have won all the elections in an appropriate proportion. In addition, the recent decade-long development of the economy that has been destroyed by 2010 shows that we have been on the right track, and we are at the forefront of Europe every year, taking into account economic development. It is therefore clear that European Union funds have also benefited from all the claims you make. It is quite strange, when you are drawing corruption on us here and trying to accuse us, when you yourself have acknowledged that you cannot solve the operation of your parties from Hungarian sources, from the source of your own members, you also need American money. It also took American money to even run for election. [[Gergely Harvesto: That's not true!]] What are you talking about corruption? ! Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-22-78	Thank you very much. Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Member LMP, has spoken again. [[Gergely Arató: Lorika, tell me something about water management.]]
u2022-11-22-79	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Obviously, in a situation where we are experiencing such crises, when the water utility sector is otherwise collapsing, when the government cannot find a solution to the energy crisis, and when it is in particular that Hungary can lose thousands of billions because of government corruption, if someone follows this debate and hears these pro-government speeches, then I think that there is a right to feel concerned that, in such a situation, Hungary is actually using the Hungarian Parliament for clowning. So they make statements that are weak even for such a communication political panel. At this level, I don't think you should descend. Dear fellow Member, Dear Mr János Kiss, The one thing you have acknowledged is that you did not have one word that your fellow Members on the appropriate committees defended György Schadl once again. The thing is, LMP always takes responsibility for its own votes, for its own political positions, and we always speak hard in matters that are not considered to be corruption cases in your political family. When we were talking about investments here in terms of the efficient use of European Union funds or other resources, we were talking about, obviously not as a parliamentary party, but in other ways, as we were then involved in public life, we were harshly criticising it, but as a Member of Parliament, I also criticized, for example, the stupid investments such as the M6 trail, when practically building a valley bridge without valleys, or tunneling without mountains, left-wing governments, and I criticize it in the same way when you voted in favour of the concept of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line with an encrypted contract. So I was asking you here, you had no idea what was in the classified documents, you just voted in favour of a project that brought Lőrinc Mészáros 300 billion. I think this will show you how seriously you take the authority to do your job here in Parliament. But the fact that you are defending this man in a situation like this, who is being accused of very serious corruption by the prosecution, that you are holding this man in position completely without reason, even when the Secretary of State for Justice says that this situation cannot be tolerated, I think that this is what shows how seriously you are taking the fight against corruption, and we can say that this is completely uncreditable. Thank you very much.
u2022-11-22-80	Thank you, Congressman. I'm asking if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The consolidated debate is closed. If you wish, I will give the floor to the author, Mr Répássy, Secretary of State, 16 minutes 37 seconds.
u2022-11-22-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I promise I won't take advantage of this time you've mentioned. I will not be able to answer all your questions, but it may not be worth answering everything, because there have been speeches that have only been more closely linked to this current agenda. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the bill before us represents progress in all aspects in the fight against corruption. [[12.20]] So I would like to ask you to consider that from those who support it, we thank you, and also from those who do not want to vote that these proposals are more and more instruments in the fight against corruption. How effective these instruments will be, of course, will only be told by the future. The Ministry of Justice and the Government believe that this law will improve the toolbox for combating corruption. The fact that this package of laws takes place on the basis of a request from the European Commission is clear to everyone, it is obvious to everyone, so it is not denied by the government, and it is even explicitly reflected in the title of the bill. In our view, some solutions, legal solutions may not be needed in this or this way, but we believe that if the Commission's concerns are addressed by these amendments, these laws, then we can really achieve a very important goal, so that the agreement can be concluded and that we can bring these European Union funds, which otherwise belong to Hungary, back home. As a matter of fact, what we're going to use these for is a completely transparent system. I believe that the government has repeatedly announced that it will devote a significant part of these funds to educators' wage increases, but beyond that, I must now tell you that you can see these laws, that 8-10 authorities will now pay attention to spending a penny or a cent. So what I can tell you is that it's not just under any circumstances that these sums can be spent. Candidates who can meet these very high transparency requirements will use this money with every right. Otherwise, it will, of course, be possible not only for entrepreneurs but also for many areas to spend this amount or these amounts on economic development. I do not want to be very involved in the debate about what people think about corruption, but I would like to anticipate that two mistakes can be made in relation to corruption. One mistake is that there are no criminal proceedings for corruption. Because if they don't, it doesn't prove that there's no corruption, it proves that they can't reveal these corruption cases. And the other mistake is that once a case has been discovered, if such a case is brought before a court or authority, then we say, "Well, well, there's corruption everywhere." I'm sure you know the truth is between the two. There is therefore a need for all authorities to take action against corruption, but a solution has not yet been found where the risk of corruption can be ruled out, and the risk of corruption can only be reduced. I also think that the bill that we are now looking at, and then the bill that we are discussing later, should only consider amendments to the declaration of assets system, all of which will enable us to fight corruption. On behalf of the government, I find it unacceptable that a party or a politician should consider that because they are not in government, because they are not in government, because they are not in charge of spending public money, they do not vote for these anti-corruption solutions. Of course, this attitude is not only morally, but also, I think that it is not acceptable for patriotism, because this money is due to Hungary, and it is therefore necessary to adopt these laws. I ask you to support the law. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-11-22-82	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Répássy Róbert. Dear Parliament, Decisions will be taken on this day. Next up is the World War II on the list of Ministries of Hungary in 2022. a joint debate on the amendment of laws and certain related laws in an exceptional procedure. Government referral T/2099. is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the rapporteur's speech will take place. Mr Balázs Fürjes, State Secretary. Before I give the floor, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have a total time-frame of 25 minutes for opening speeches, further speeches in the debate and any closing words. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2022-11-22-83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I was given the floor to present a general debate on the list of the ministries of Hungary and related laws, thank you very much. On 3 April, Hungary's citizens voted for the Fidesz-KDNP government after 12 years of government. The fact that 12 years passed this vote must have meant that the citizens of Hungary knew exactly who and what they were empowered to do. We are, of course, expected to have effective governance, which is also adapted to the challenges that are known and that arise as we go along. It wasn't easy at the beginning of the year, not even in the spring, but after the spring government was formed, the world and Europe became even more upside down, unforeseen risks and dangers were on the rise. At the time of the election campaign, we had reason to believe that energy prices and energy supply would not go as crazy as it did, because when the Heads of State and Government of the European Union met after the outbreak of the war, after Russia, as the Hungarian Government and the Hungarian Parliament have expressed on several occasions, illegally, acted contrary to international law in aggression against sovereign Ukraine, well, after that, when the Heads of State of the European Union met in February in Versailles, they even said that there would be no sanctions on the energy sector, because they knew precisely that Europe would shoot itself in the foot. After that, after the elections, the introduction of energy sanctions in several waves began in June. They also said that this will stop Putin and Russia, which is committing aggression, which will put an end to the war, and they also said that it will not hurt, that it will not cause Europe any more disadvantage than it will for Russia. So unfortunately, what many EU leaders said in February was not true, and unfortunately we also see that they were wrong about the sanctions stopping Russia, and unfortunately they were not in any more pain for Hungary or the EU Member States than they were for Russia. Hungary remains on the side of peace, and we continue to think that sanctions and energy sanctions are harmful to all Europe and Hungary. However, this does not enable us to resolve the energy crisis that is characteristic of Europe as a whole, so we believe that it is time to change the governance structure. Let us not stand in a doctrine way that, although Parliament voted for this governance structure on Parliament's proposal six months ago, the challenges that have arisen since then require us to establish a separate Ministry of Energy, which, as of 1 December, will be responsible for the uniform management of energy policy. We also believe that the management of the transport sector is in the right place in the Ministry of Construction and Investment, so we propose to define it as the Ministry of Construction and Transport. In addition, the war and the failed Brussels sanctions policy also put Hungary in the face of unexpected economic policy challenges to make the Ministry without a wallet and to give the Minister such a mandate, and to be established with the Ministry of Economic Development from 1 January by leaving the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister, a new Ministry of Economic Development. [[12.30]] He is the brain trust, a power center within the government, who will continue to monitor and make new proposals on what additional measures we can take to protect Hungarian families, Hungarian citizens and Hungarian businesses from the problems that affect Hungary without its own fault, they come from the war and the sanctions policy. We will protect people, families and businesses in the years ahead. I call on this House and the parliamentary parties to support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-22-84	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I have noted that you have used 5 minutes 5 seconds of 25 minutes, this is all you have left to add to the debate and to say the closing word. The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented. I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Herczeg, rapporteur of the committee.
u2022-11-22-85	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that on 21 November 2022, the Legislative Committee discussed the IInd of 2022 on the list of the ministries of Hungary. Act T/2099 amending Act T/2099 and certain related laws Bill No. 1. The summary report from the committee of the house rule 46. By 28 votes in favour, 6 votes against and no abstentions. I wish to explain the bill in detail in my speech as a speaker. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-22-86	Thank you very much, Congressman Zsolt Herczeg. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 30-30 minutes, and the independent Members have 8 minutes in total. So here are the keynote speeches. First, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Herczeg, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2022-11-22-87	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Energy security and energy prices are the most important issues in Hungary and Europe today, due to war and sanctions. With Minister László Palkovics' departure, the Ministry of Technology and Industry will cease, and its tasks will be taken over by the portfolio of economic development, construction and investment, as well as cultural and innovation. The government is making structural changes and creating an independent Ministry of Energy. The new Ministry is responsible for the uniform governance of energy policy and takes over the majority of the powers of the Energy Office. In addition, the Ministry of Economic Development will be separated from the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister and will receive a separate wallet. Among the tasks of the Ministry of Technology and Industry, the transport area is transferred to the Ministry of Construction and Investment, which is renamed the Ministry of Construction and Transport. The new structure will have 12 ministries instead of 11 so far. The reorganisation of ministries will take effect on 1 January. Dear House, It says a lot about the left that the establishment of the Energy Ministry in Europe's largest energy crisis is not supported, but the LGBTQ working group has now been considered important to form. European families, local governments and small and medium-sized enterprises are subject to sanctions in Brussels. The Hungarian families and the elderly are the most protected by the penalty increase, and due to the reduction of the rent, Hungary has the lowest retail gas and electricity prices, while the government has launched several programmes to protect businesses. Without a reduction in the costs, each family would have about HUF 181 thousand more a month. With the reduction in overhead costs and the price stops, the government can reduce the negative impact of sanctions. For this, the government has an action plan with 11 measures so far. The price of all products cannot be determined by the government, because it would bring back socialism and the economy would collapse, but in some vital areas such measures can help people. The government also adopted an action plan to support the tourism sector in order to allow hotels and restaurants to be open at high energy prices during the winter season. The operators in the sector do not have to pay 4 percent of their net turnover, which makes the contribution to the development of tourism between 1 October and 31 March of next year. The government deletes the different tabs of the Széchenyi rest card, i.e. all resources provided for catering, accommodation or leisure activities can be used in different areas. The government is, for six months, loosening up the reporting obligation of the tourism sector and pushing the deadline for the rating of accommodation. It will also be possible to apply a 24-month working time limit only in the tourism sector. Dear House, The Fidesz parliamentary group supports the bill of amendment tabled by the government. I would ask my fellow Members to support this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-22-88	Thank you, Congressman Zsolt Herczeg. I now give the floor to Mr Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2022-11-22-89	Thank you very much. Dear House, I must disappoint Mr Zoltán Herczeg, because the only thing we support in this transformation is the establishment of the Ministry of Energy. Of course, we do not understand why it took so long for the government to realize that there is an energy crisis. After all, even in April, when the government was formed, the former war, Viktor Orbán started to vote in favour of the sanctions, because no matter what you say, it is Viktor Orbán who votes and supports the sanctions in Hungary, because they are always made by unanimous decision, they can only be born in the European Union with unanimous support from the representatives of governments. So Viktor Orbán had already supported sanctions at the time, and energy prices were already skyrocketing. To add, they weren't exactly in the sky because of the war. If you remember it, the price cap on petrol and gas oil had to be ordered before the elections, just because energy prices and fuel prices were dramatic even then, primarily because you worked hard and methodically to destroy the price of the forint in 12 years and achieved a significant depreciation of the forint, so that everything we import, including energy, would be much more expensive. So, there was an energy crisis even after the elections, and even then the government could have done that to create an energy ministry in this structure, it would have been justified even then. At the same time, one thing has changed, of course, which is why we need an independent Ministry of Energy, as it turns out that you have won the elections with a great lie. The opposition was accused of what you then carried out, while the reduction of the rent was abolished for the majority of consumers. They've raised gas prices seven times, doubled electricity prices, destroyed local governments with 10-12 times electricity and gas prices, destroying businesses with high energy prices. But they still refuse to face reality, they still refuse to face the fact that you caused a significant part of this crisis with your irresponsible economic policy, by building their energy policy exclusively on Russian gas, and by refusing to face the consequences of the increase in energy prices in any way, they only treated energy prices as an election issue. [[12.40]] This is the result of the dramatic difficulties faced by Hungarian citizens, Hungarian businesses and the majority of local governments. We could say that it is gratifying that this is recognised and that a minister is appointed who is willing to face this, but the Secretary of State's speech and the Member's speech convinced me that this is not the case, but that they want another talking head, another propaganda face, who, instead of actually facing the situation and seeking real solutions, will instead be the personalizer and face of government propaganda on this issue. And let's be honest with you, Mr Herczeg, it wasn't about some structural change, it's about that because László Palkovics didn't tolerate what I had to say in the government for some reason, we don't know why, it's his job, we're curious, and then one day he'll definitely write it in his memoirs, and now he's paid for it with a good job, so he's not talking, so the thing is that there's going to be a government change because some people in Fidesen's personal struggles are weakening and others are getting stronger. We see who is getting stronger, the transport goes to János Lázár, and everyone who reminded me of at least a professional from a distance, but obviously at the ministry of Lazarus, excellent professionals of channeling public funds to suitable places, transforming public funds into private money, are taking control of transport projects, and everything goes on as before, or perhaps even at an even higher pace. I wasn't going to talk about this because it doesn't belong here at all, but since you have mentioned helping the tourism sector, I am silently saying that you will also help the tourism sector by extending and extending the scope of the slave law in the tourism sector. The result will be that workers may have to pay less now, but more will go abroad, and when the tourism sector can start, there will be even greater labour shortages in the whole tourism sector. But that's in parentheses, because it doesn't belong to this law, but since you mention it, I'm forced to mention it. At the same time, although the formation of a government structure is generally a private matter of the government, there is a degree of error and a loss of proportion in a government structure when it is the opposition's duty to at least warn us that this could be done differently. That's the situation now. We have tabled an amendment, of course it has been voted off in the Committee on Legislative Affairs, but I do have to say that it is possible to create a different structure of government, and once the idea of the Ministry of Energy from the shadow government has been taken over, which, as I say, is very right, we recommend that you follow this example in other areas as well. Set up a Ministry of Health, set up a Ministry of Education and Culture, set up a Ministry of Environment and Climate Change, set up a Ministry for Wages and Labour, set up a Ministry responsible for Social Affairs and Pensions, because these are as important, my fellow Members, as there are a number of such economic development wallets created by you. There are five of them in the new government structure, if I count them correctly, in such a way, and especially as important, such as the Rogan Propagandaministhery, that we could very well lack in a well-functioning government structure. We therefore propose that, if you have already started to transform the governance structure, you do it well, create an independent ministry, which is truly important, in areas that define people's lives, not only for energy, but also for health, education, social area, pension, work and especially for the environment and climate, and be responsible for their faces, and, above all, make a meaningful change in these areas. Unfortunately, in this form, we will not be able to support this proposal, not because of what is involved in the Ministry of Energy, but because of what is not in it. Thank you very much.
u2022-11-22-90	Thank you very much, Congressman Gergely Arató. I now give the floor to Mrs Hajnalka Juhász, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2022-11-22-91	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Let me first respond to my fellow Member, Arató. We may be accusing the opposition of many things, but of one thing, of performance; it is certain that this criticism will never be received from us. By the way, in order to reduce bureaucracy, you have proposed the creation of at least four or five ministries, at a time of energy crisis or at a time of energy security, energy sovereignty, I think it is not justified. The other is that during your time, during the Ministry of Education, schools were closed and hospitals were closed during the Ministry of Health. So I think if we were to turn to good practice, we would not necessarily turn to you, especially to a shadow government. And I refuse to do what they're trying to do several times, and that's to stop the cost reduction. This is not the case, we guarantee it up to the average consumption, in such a sharp and difficult economic situation. And I think that we thank you for the recognition that, by creating the Ministry of Energy, we are practically creating what Hungarian people, the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian energy situation needs. This step is important, and this amendment is important, I think. The new Ministry of Energy will start its activities with the renaming of the Ministry of Technology and Industry from 1 December 2022, and the proposal of the bill that will create the Ministry of Construction and Transport from the Ministry of Construction and Investment from December 2022 is also important. Because of the war, the negative consequences of the sanctions policy introduced as a result of the war concern not only the energy sector, but also the economy. The increase in energy prices created by sanctions represents a deficit of EUR 10 billion per year for the Hungarian economy, a deficit of EUR 10 billion! In view of this, it is important that a separate portfolio is also responsible for the area of the economy in the future. Therefore, the two legislative amendments are being made, and the Hungarian government is fully adapted to these challenges. It's an important bill, and it's supported by KDNP. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-11-22-92	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász. I give the floor to Mr István Hiller, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2022-11-22-93	Mr President, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! Dear Parliament, According to the constitutional arrangement in Hungary, the government does not have a prime minister, but the Prime Minister has a government, and therefore the government's structure is no doubt not a collective decision, but the power of a person, the Prime Minister. This does not, of course, mean that elected Members should not take sides, should not be able to express their views or influence them, because they will get to them, or to the minutes, if they do not get to them. In any case, I would like to draw your attention to, if not unprecedented, but increasingly rare cases, in other respects to call on you to try to think together about what I would like to talk about, admitting once again, the constitutional arrangement. I would like to talk about the fact that today's plenary debate is taking place on a specific day, Mr President, honourable Members, because today is the day of Hungarian public education. I find it strange that we've been talking and arguing here for hours, but this hasn't come up today. It is not even new, since 1991 no-vember 22. the day of Hungarian public education. According to the proposal at the time, in order to have a summat of some kind each year, some sort of balance sheeting opportunity, rather than a celebration, they created the forum for this bilanz making. In this bill or amendment, this should not be brought into the picture if it were not a very specific situation, because we are really not talking about the exchange of persons in this case, but about the reorganization and formation of the government structure six months after the election. As we have heard, a ministry that still exists today is terminated, a ministry that does not yet exist today is established and different areas are transferred to different ministries. [[12.50]] Please, in this new division, adult education has not even been mentioned in the proposal, because I admit that that is not the primary purpose of this amendment and of the change in the structure of government, but it does concern the Ministry of Culture and Innovation, which has now ceased to exist. This, please, is definitely by the way of connecting these two things. You know this day, I say once again, I do not think that this was planned because they wanted to discuss this bill on the day of Hungarian public education, but that is still a fact, on the other hand part of education, part of the training, the importance of adult education should not be underestimated. Consequently, it is worth considering in a change of structure what it is worth to do and what it is not. I do not doubt at all the need and the right to establish a Ministry of Energy, because I have written the introduction of the Secretary of State to determine the need, not in a doctrine way, but in a manner adapted to change, of the Prime Minister and, in his will, of the line of thought you have said. But if, at some point, it is broken down and, in addition, it affects education, it is necessary to ask the question, not in a doctrine way, but in a manner adapted to the changes, that the issue of education is indeed in the right place in your government structure. Indeed, examples could be given in the past. I would be happy to discuss all the debates, whether in the longer period when my party was on the government, or in the discussion of the not-so-short period when I led the Ministry of Education and Culture, and also in the period when you first formed a government and organised and led an independent Ministry of Education, which I criticized at the time, although I must say that I agree on more points after 20 years with the activities of that ministry than you did. And we can go to the previous ones, because, in the history of Hungarian education management for a century and a half, Baron József Eötvös, you can believe me, in the vast majority, there was a ministry formed by education or by the co-thematics closely linked to education rather than not. But to get involved in what was in the 1900s or before, before 2010, or even before, I think it's completely unnecessary, at least in the trial of the current law. The question is, do you understand the future? The question is that when they argue with us and I say it again, I take these debates, we analyze the past, or you see the change that, whatever the bureaucrats in Brussels, takes place in this world. It is happening at such a speed that it is worth to raise this in the Hungarian Parliament in a debate on the structure of government, because the transfer of knowledge, the process of acquiring knowledge, is changing at a rate not seen in five hundred years. Therefore, if it is worth adapting to some kind of change, and if, by the way, you have drawn attention to this, yes, I say to you, to all of you who are here as representatives in the plenary sitting room of the Hungarian Parliament, representatives of Hungarians, different parties and factions in different ways, that regardless of age, we all learned more like our fathers and grandfathers than our children or grandchildren learn. If you get on the train, you get on the subway, you get on a bus, but you might just stop at a bus stop, you can see young people and less young people sitting in a very strange, sloppy posture, and they don't hurt their backs, they're reading and getting some kind of information in some smartphone or device like this. Compared to this, please, in the vast majority of us, we acquired knowledge in the organized, institutional form of knowledge transfer and transfer, textbooks, lessons, and naturally, after a while there was radio and television, so to speak across generations. But the change and the speed of what we are witnessing here is simply unprecedented. Indeed, it is unprecedented, so if we talk about a government structure so that we do not approach things in a doctrine way, I respectfully draw your attention to the importance of reflecting on this for a government. And there's something else. Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen of the Council, We're going through a terrible time. In our lives, and even since World War II, there hasn't been a generation living in the same conditions as we have in the last roughly three years. I do not want to express sadness, simply as a fact, that, while I was talking about a change at an amazing speed, there was a horror that no one wanted, and yet we all had to resort to, this pandemic, and we can sincerely hope that, at least, if it has not been completed completely, but we are approaching the end, so we should just draw attention to what it meant from the point of view of what I am speaking to you now standing here. You knownillik meant that the traditional way of teaching that we used to take our children and grandchildren to a well-equipped building, please, that didn't work. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.) This is not about political reasons at all, but because of this damn epidemic, it didn't work. Therefore, I kindly ask you to acknowledge and to think differently, not simply in parties and factions, but you also obviously have children of school age, grandchildren or acquaintances who have six or seven-year-old Hungarian boys and little girls, while the amendment talks about a change of government structure. The thing is, they didn't learn how to write, read, count, and in the way they could teach them, they wouldn't learn anymore. This is a different kind of change, honourable government representatives, than I was just talking about. But the two together are a remarkable summation, because if, and once again, we have the opportunity to judge each other's expressions, directions, actions, and to present this to the public in various forms within and outside Parliament, but there is a change here, in other respects, that is very justified, because you are now creating a new ministry, because you say it is important and immediately important, and I will not dispute it. Just please acknowledge that what I'm talking about cannot be considered less important. I do not think that it is important for our country that the issue of energy be cared for either at ministerial or ministerial level, but I ask you very much not to insist that, after such three years and in the midst of such changes, the issue of education should not be devoted to a ministry. [[13.00]] And you have broken down this government structure once again, not because of the issue of education, but also with regard to education and education. Then I must respectfully suggest that they should consider interpreting to the Prime Minister of Hungary that it is very justified and that the creation of an independent Ministry in the field of education can be justified on the basis of the current change in the structure of government. 'Cause what's going on? At the moment, the Ministry of Industry, which is currently to be terminated, includes adult education, cultural and innovation, vocational training and higher education, and public education, not only within the EU but in a unique way throughout the world, to the Ministry of Interior. Adult education is now being put to the Ministry of Vocational Training and Higher Education. Please, you will try to explain to me the connection that would prove that vocational training is closer to higher education than public education because you cannot find any literature that would prove it. If you're going somewhere, it's for public education, but it's not for the Ministry of the Interior. What could be the reason for this? The thing is, I think that a long decade ago, you started a major educational change that has also put the administration on a new footing, the state is in a very central position, and after a decade, you see that money has been put into it that it doesn't work. This is expressed by thousands of young Hungarians and older people from week to week and month to month on our streets and on our squares. Professional and civil society organisations, trade unions, teenagers, 20s and 70s say that this is not right. And it's clear that you're not in the wake of this protest, but you're still touching the government structure, so maybe you should hear these people's voices. Although if they believe in their policies that it is not the protest that makes you do anything, then the two changes that you just said, the transfer of knowledge, the transfer of knowledge, are amazingly fast. [[?]] I must say to you, on the day of Hungarian public education, on 22 November, that the change of education within the structure of the government, the provision of a more central place, in Hungarian, that there should be an independent Ministry of Education, this is very appropriate for the age, and that the change that is now being made, if necessary, gives rise to that change. Actually, I'm calling for a professional debate. I'm up to the political debate at any time, but I don't think the arguments I've just made are false. And if you don't, and you accept professionally that Covid has tortured Hungarian education, you will accept the amazing change in the world, and I will tell you what is in the bill submitted, in amendment, that you are touching some of the education, some of the training, why not? Therefore, on behalf of the MSZP parliamentary group, although I do not see that I am not, we are not alone in this, but I would like to ask for consideration so that the Hungarian education system can create an independent ministry in the structure and structure of the Hungarian government. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the lines of Jobbik, DK, Momentum, Dialogue, MSZP and LMP.]]
u2022-11-22-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. I warmly welcome my fellow Members, and we will continue with the speeches by the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Momentum Group is Mr András Fekete-Győr. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-11-22-95	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, Today we are on a day that is an important day for the new political generation, as my fellow Member, István Hiller mentioned, the day of Hungarian public education, and it is very important for us to ensure the Hungarian future. Today we are voting on a legislative amendment to the establishment of the Ministry of Energy, and my first and most important question to the Secretary of State is why what goes for energy does not apply to education. I agree with you that there is a need or a need for an independent Ministry of Energy when there is an energy crisis in Europe and Hungary, when the price of electricity has been doubled by you, the price of gas has been increased by seven times, when Hungarian municipalities have incurred ten to twelve times their overhead costs, the Hungarian municipalities are on the verge of bankruptcy, so many of them cannot continue to finance the various facilities from 2023, be they kindergartens, swimming pools, cultural institutions, and we could still list them. So there is an energy crisis, but there is also an educational crisis, and anyone who has not seen it in the last two months has not lived in Hungary. In the last two months, Hungarian teachers, Hungarian students and tens of thousands of Hungarian parents may have been out on the streets constantly, day by day, week by week. Church schools also protested, more than 300 teachers from over 30 church schools protested about a week and a half ago in Budapest. These protests are ongoing. Hungarian teachers, students and parents protest because they want freedom, and they want freedom of teaching among others. Students protest because they feel that they run out of teachers around them because 16,000 Hungarian teachers are missing from schools. That's why they're protesting, among other things. They are protesting because they need skills that are set out in Annex XXI. For example, they are being helped out in the labour market, the ever-changing labour market. They want to solve problems well, they want to speak languages, they want to programme, they need EU knowledge, they need financial knowledge and they can still be classified. Teachers and students are protesting for a lot of things in Hungary, so there is an educational crisis in Hungary, so the question is why what is rightfully due to the energy issue is not due to Hungarian education. CHAPTER XXI The 20th century is the age of the global economy, which also means that a girl or boy who is a graduate of a Veszprém high school today will compete not only with young people in Budapest on the labour market, but will also compete with a German, Slovak or, say, a Singaporen youth, and your offer is that when they grow up, they will assemble their German contemporary car back home, or they will wash their German contemporary's car as a guest worker out there. But, I remember, you had a Molinah that we wouldn't be a colony! But there is a contradiction between the text of the Molino and the Hungarian reality, and that is very regrettable. Because the best jobs are given to those with the highest-rated education. High salaries are awarded to engineers, programmers, recognized researchers, doctors, lawyers and more. These people need quality education, and this starts not only with kindergarten but also with public education. Meanwhile, Hungarian industrial policy is a time bomb, because the training works are already often done by machines instead of people, and this will only increase in the future. Knowledge is paid by employers in Hungary, dear colleagues. Today, a graduate earns twice as much as a high school graduate. [[13.10]] So we, the new political generation, have the request and the task of placing Hungarian public education on a national strategic level. If the energy issue deserves a separate ministry, then certainly education, too. And the reason I'm saying this is because I don't think the voters are so interested in what kind of ministries there are, but we know that the priority of a government is best reflected in what kind of ministries it divides tasks into. Among your priorities, education is in the last place in the last 12 years. Teachers, students' future and present are in the last place. Not to mention that teachers' pay increases can only come after everyone; they have not yet come, but you point to the European Union. Viktor Orbán's salary was raised before the teachers'. Balázs Fürjes's salary as Secretary of State was raised before the teachers', and I think it's a shame, and I think it's a disgrace! We therefore ask you, and if you do not do so, then we undertake that the first civil European government to be created after you, the government of the age change, will establish an independent, autonomous Ministry of Education and will set Hungarian education free and will make it digital. We will bring an education in which all Hungarian young people will find the opportunity to rise and gain competitive knowledge in this globalised economy and in this globalised world. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2022-11-22-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member of the Parliament. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-11-22-97	Mr President, Not quite six months ago, we were confronted with the ministerial structure of the government. We are basically even allowed on this issue. We also said that the Prime Minister's responsibility is essentially to control the country's affairs through the division of labour, so if the Prime Minister, or indirectly the government, thinks of a structure, then we have no reason not to support it; it is not up to that; it is not possible to blame any failure on the opposition's opposite behaviour. We haven't changed that attitude. Indeed, rather disturbing is what is not included in the proposal, which is not so simple. The Ministry of Economic Development would also be able to debate in itself; the missing things are annoying, especially on the day of Hungarian public education. My excellent fellow Member Brenner Koloman, my friend, who is here for me, has spoken on numerous occasions about the extent and degree of education that an independent institutional system and much more focused attention should deserve. The issue of the independent Ministry of Education is also a legitimate debate, otherwise for a very long time. I also think the same about health, as well as health issues: it is not certain that the confusion of responsibility in recent years would have been useful to the processes, but my fellow Members have discussed these two issues relatively widely. What is clearly visible and spectacular, however, is the failure of the government's energy policy and practically its admission. That's what this day is all about. This day, the establishment of the independent Ministry of Energy, is essentially about recognising and admitting the failure of so far's policy. And we also see that we are a short half a year after the elections and the establishment of the ministerial structure, so within a relatively short period of time the government's plan to fail was revealed. It can be seen that there are also very serious issues relating to the marketisation or partial marketisation of bills and expenses. We have a prepared secretary of state with us: I expect your answer on the fact that the increased, partly market-based accounts have a higher VAT duration, so if the amount of the invoice is higher, more VAT, in Hungarian, you will realize more tax revenues and more money, if you like: you can spend extra profit. Do you think that any moral, economic barrier is a barrier to leaving this realised extra income with the families involved? If, on the other hand, there is no such obstacle, I would ask you to take action either to reduce the VAT duration of the overhead accounts, this would be a very serious energy improvement for families, or to turn back the extra VAT and tax revenue to those affected, the Hungarian families. By the way, we have talked a lot about the rise in system usage charges, about how annoying it is that the system usage fee actually seems to have followed the price increase of energy sources, and it often seems, from the outside, that in a totally unjustified way, but, Mr Secretary of State, a statistic of your failing energy policy is the strongest evidence. Within the states of the European Union, typically to the west, I do not bring up these states as a model, but for the sake of comparison, let me have one piece of data: on average, citizens spend 6-8 percent of their income on overhead expenditure. This 6-8 percent income, which is spent on overhead, has now gone up to 10-12 percent during the crisis, so we are talking about measurable growth, but a citizen living there must now turn their total income, say, one tenth, into energy. Of course, we are talking about averages, statistics are always debateable, I admit that, but let's look at the Hungarian statistics. Here, before the energy crisis started, a citizen spent an average of 14 to 16 percent of his income on his expenses; this could go up to 30 percent at current prices. Once again, even in the middle of the crisis, the said countries, which have moved over, have an average overhead expenditure of 10-12 percent compared to income, and in Hungary this may be as much as 30. The fact is, if we look at the price of electricity or the price of certain energy sources, Mr Secretary, now, on the basis of this change, we are measuring the price of a daily exchange price to buy energy carriers, and the fact is that this creates a rather unpredictable situation, and these daily changes are difficult to trace. But how do you determine the price of the energy carrier there, Secretary of State? Euro. Now, the thing is, in 2010, there was a euro exchange rate of some 267 forints, that's all you had to pay for it. Before the crisis and the war conflict that you have mentioned a lot, 367 forints had to be given for a euro. Now this value is typically above 400 forints. In the beginning, I do not understand why they do not want to change the budget, which was also designed with a HUF 370 exchange rate, by the way, with inflation of around 5%, as I recall. So it is quite harsh that we are now using this budget for the next period, but this is not the subject of this agenda. On the other hand, the subject of this agenda is why, in energy matters, this government does not pay attention to the fact that retail spending can be at least partially managed at such a level of income. In order to say good things and to commend you: yesterday's announcement of condominiums and households that cannot otherwise be measured as a separate economic entity brings about an enormous amount of relief for 2 thousand families, and that is positive. I think you should compliment him on that. You shouldn't be looking for knots. At the same time, there are still a few million families in Hungary, and in terms of average consumption levels, it is no exaggeration to say that half of them may be in serious trouble. The minimum monthly cost increase is between HUF 10-60 thousand. The government is giving very interesting figures in this case, but it is certain that setting up an independent Ministry of Energy will not solve this problem on its own. If you left the extra tax, let's say, with the families involved, that would be a very, very serious help. I understand that this extra profit could not be spent by the government on other things, but it would be worth considering, however, this is a very important question. However, at ministerial level, we do not see the reason why there is no, let's say, a Ministry of Housing. I'll tell you why: if there were a Ministry of Housing, otherwise in 2010, they promised to support 10 percent of the real estate every year, and none of this became the case, then the independent Ministry of Housing could have called attention to the fact that the energy efficiency of the Hungarian real estate stock was brutally poor and, let's say, the renovation of the Kádár cubes could have started within an organised program. This is the time, my fellow Members, when there was a Community EU resource for investment in energy efficiency in the population, but you have decided, and the government has decided to stop this at public institutions, so it only spends it on public institutions. It could have been opened to citizens. If they did, this energy emergency wouldn't be as serious as it is today, and it wouldn't be as harsh as it is expected in the coming weeks and months. The independent Ministry of Housing would also have been able to see that there are alarmingly few properties available in Hungary. [[13.20]] And when you let Airbnb into this market uncontrolled, you were surprised a year or two later that the rents had exploded, went over 100 thousand forints, then went over 150,000. In an unregulated environment supply scarcity is a relatively stubborn concept: if there is little of anything, the price will go up explosively. This is what happened in the rental property market. And by the way, when you look at the number of newly built apartments, Mr. Secretary, you always tell me, and I'll tell you how good the discount rate is, that's not what we're discussing. But they had a period of governance when the number of newly built real estates was below 8,000, which would have allowed a 500-year exchange of the total real estate stock on the basis of the data at that time. We're doing a little better now. We're 200 years away from changing the entire property stock. But perhaps we can also see that an independent Ministry of Housing would have recognised this problem, indicated that it would have dealt with this problem, and now some of the problems relating to overhead expenditure would not have developed in a hypothetical situation if the government had listened to this. I don't want to bring in areas that don't fit completely here, and on my part, Hungary could also have a separate Ministry of Consumer Protection, as it is amazing that citizens are vulnerable to various large multinational networks, companies and groups, and, as customers and consumers, it is very often the citizen who pulls the short straw if he has a dispute. The basic case is also difficult, and the financial coverage of the dispute is also a problem for many vulnerable groups. What I need to talk to you about is a Department of Wage and Labour. It has already been said here, and during the spring, several opposition parties have already raised the importance of this, as the continuous tightening of labour rules and the extension of the slave law clearly increase workers' vulnerability, and the mass imports of migrant workers will brutally break both wages and working conditions. To deal with this, we should clearly intervene at a higher level than is currently happening. At the same time, there is a ministry that could be a top department, and which would be the most important of all, and this is an independent demographic, if you like, Ministry of Demography and Family Affairs. They also see on the European political spectrum that there are such examples. This would not be entirely foreign in Hungary either, since we have come to this point, and it is good that the government is dealing with the demographic disaster in words. Your honesty isn't complete, because you're not telling us that if we go on with the numbers you've been praising, we'll be living in a country of 7 million by the end of the century. The infrastructure of this country, its supply system, and its pension system, have not been designed for 7 million people, will crack and collapse in some cases. So it is clear that the issue of demography presents Hungary with much tougher challenges than you admit. For example, a programme calling home, seducing and housing related to forced workers abroad could be included. We also see that there is plenty to refine on the system of family support. We do not dispute the fact that a large amount of resources are coming here in proportion to GDP. So I get a little sick every time some opposition speakers on the Internet say "good," that's not enough. It's not that there's little, I think there's enough resources there, and there's no discussion between us. The effectiveness and inefficient use of this cause huge problems. I might add, some statistical whiffs are here on the part of the government. Secretary of State, you account for the resources allocated to the 40 programme of women in over 200 billion dollars, which is very important, I support it, and indirectly, in the third stage, it has to do with family support, because if a grandmother is able to take more grandchildren, it is good, but there is no statistical system in the world, and there is no budget where family support is trying to sell it to the public. There they honestly say it's a different kind of discount. So it would also be worth seeing the picture of how much real family support is, and it would be good to make this whole system a follow-up to inflation. With regard to family allowances, too, opposition colleagues often get tired of it, I always say that I am a little cold when we distribute these subjective, aid-like things, and my fellow Member Arató accuses me of excessive paternalism. He's willing to do that now, I see. But I'll take this paternalism. So, in the interest of children, I would like to double the family allowance by saying that on a device called a family card, we would like to double the family allowance in a way that can only be spent on basic food, child-rearing articles, but in order to gain the confidence of the hesitant opposition representatives, that we would like to double the family allowance in a way that can be spent on services aimed at the spiritual and cultural development of the child, so that a relatively wide range of products can be put up. They have in common that they can only be used in the interests of the child. So what we see is that a Demographic Ministry could also address these issues, because these debates, be honest, will fall behind us. So the political jerks fly here, often on our side, but these national strategy debates are not going to happen. And if you're serious about a genuine reform of the ministerial structure, then you can't avoid the most important issues of national strategy, and I see that you've been bypassing this in an impertinent way for over 10 years, 12 years. Here's a chance to change that. So I'm going to call on you, of course, on your own authority, and I think the Prime Minister's idea is that there is a new structure here after six months, and we usually respect that, because if you fail, you should not be able to refer to the fact that, because of the opposition, you cannot work in the working order in which you wanted to work. But try to hear our improved comments, and in these key areas, although we know that not everything depends on having an independent ministry, it is still a symbolic step, a legitimate basis for debate in the areas of housing, demography, wage and labour, health and education, so that there is an independent ministry. And in all these cases, I will fight for these issues to be represented at the independent and ministerial level in a future government representing national interests in all respects. Thank you for your attention. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman applauds.]]
u2022-11-22-98	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the Dialogue Group is Ms Rebecca Szabó. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-11-22-99	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, It has been said that the Ministry structure is indeed a matter for the government, but we are here to give an opinion on this. To be honest, the first thing that comes to my mind is that I would say quite, I don't know, I would be happy, but it's rather tragic to listen to the government and the Secretary of State think that everything is about the sanctions in Brussels, whatever is happening in Hungary, it seems that whatever they are doing to the ministries, it's certainly the reason for the sanctions, and that everything is the result of the sanctions. I think it's kind of a weird thing for me, this, let's say, would be new information if it were true, but I don't think that's true, but I think that's what all thinking people think. But let's say that if we were to assume that it was true and that the sanctions were really the reason why they had to set up this new ministry now, then perhaps the sanctions in Brussels could also be the result of Viktor Orbán's agreement with Vladimir Putin in 2014 that he had not made it to the Paks II in nine years. It's about a nuclear power plant. And we know that 2014 was the year when Russia forced the Crimea from Ukraine and part of Donetsk and Luhansk counties. 2014 was also the year when the European Union, by the way, included in writing the new strategy for energy security, which stated that the European Union's greatest risk of energy security was the Russian import dependency. Well, this year, the Hungarian government thought that they would conclude a contract quickly in which Russia would be the best partner for the construction of a new nuclear power plant, and not only Russia, but also the Rosatom itself, which is practically not just a company, but also a military industrial complex of ministry rank, and also a manufacturer of nuclear weapons with which Russia is now threatening Europe and the world. So really, I think it was a great idea, but if someone doesn't understand the irony, then I'll say no, I think it was a terrible bad idea, and this is threatening Hungary's energy security and, by the way, the geopolitical situation. Obviously, you believe that the sanctions in Brussels are responsible for the fact that Viktor Orbán and his government wanted to extend the excessive dependence on Russian energy by means of a long-term gas contract with a secret content. We do not know exactly what is in this contract, but it has already been found that this is clearly detrimental to Hungarian people, as we pay more for expensive Russian gas than we buy it on the European gas exchange. This means that Hungary is practically the most expensive of all European countries. When people paid for the much more expensive energy prices, the expensive electricity price, the even more expensive gas price because you have already lied about reducing the rent in the spring campaign, you probably knew you wouldn't be able to keep it, but you couldn't admit it in the campaign, but then you stopped it immediately in the summer, and as a result, more people are facing energy poverty, more people are facing the fact that they can't pay their energy bill. [[13.30]] This is why, in addition to asking the government for energy efficiency renovation, we also suggested that in families where the average income is not reached, the government should help pay the rent in the form of a certificate. This is a proposal from the Dialogue, and so far you have not responded positively. In any case, if we believed you, yes, Mr Orbán, it would certainly be a mistake, too, that there has been no authorisation for the construction of wind turbines in Hungary since 2010. This is very painful in many ways, especially because it would be a very useful renewable energy source, and otherwise wind turbines can produce electricity at a very low cost, especially with regard to newer generation, much more efficient wind turbines that can already be created. In fact, if you're looking at cost and counting it pro rata, you're generating electricity for half as much as Paks, but you don't seem to need wind power. I am sure that the sanctions in Brussels are also to blame, of course, we know that this has happened before, but I am obviously trying to follow your reasoning or your line of thought that the Orbán government has taxed solar energy, taxed solar panels, or, not so long ago, specifically, excluded solar panels from the network, which virtually renders the development of the use of solar energy in the population impossible, and makes it impossible for people who can at least do it to be safe and provide themselves with energy. This is a huge mistake in this situation. I'm sure you think Brussels is also to blame for the fact that you've been sabotaging the thermal insulation of the apartments for 12 years. EU funds that came in earlier were not used for energy efficiency in the population, were not used for non-refundable support that would have insulated people's houses, and therefore would not be on the street right now. Now there will be a new Department of Energy, which, by the way, seems to be headed by an oligarch who has previously benefited from the state's energy wholesale monopoly. In any case, I ask whether these strategic mistakes will be corrected. So then the wind power ban will cease, the pointless solar transmitter will cease, the solar energy will be re-inducted into the grid, the power grid will finally be developed, the housing buildings will finally be insulated so that people do not freeze on the one hand, and, on the other hand, that they really have lower overhead so that they do not have to use the energy they are now using to heat the street. I ask you, do you need the new ministry to fix these mistakes, because then I'd say it might make sense? But if their plan is just to give a new face, a new image to their failures so far, their very, very bad energy policy, then I think that a completely unnecessary waste of time and a waste of money will also be this new ministry. There is no point in representing this failed energy policy in this form. I'll tell you again here that despite what you're saying, Russian gas is not cheap, it's expensive, it's not safe, it's not safe, we're at his disposal, and the nuclear power plant is not a guarantee of cheap power supply, especially if new blocks need to be built. Here I would very strongly separate the existing blocks of Paks I, which are okay, already working, although we also see problems with it, because due to the climate crisis, the Danube as a cooling water is becoming a growing problem. The flow of water is decreasing, the temperature of the river is getting warmer, and there will be a point where, without damage to the wildlife, they will no longer be able to release the cooling water back into the Danube, and I do not see the Honourable Orbán government doing anything with this problem. But that's not the only problem. Péter Szijjártó and Mrs. Secretary of State always tell me yesterday that you think it would be possible to prevent 17 million tons of CO2 emissions from Paks II every year. I don't know where they get this number, but this number is a big hit to the stomach, this number is a big bluff, and there can't be any meaningful calculation behind it. Even if we simply replace the same production of coal power plants with the nuclear power plant, it doesn't come out at all. But by the way, if you look at a whole life cycle, a nuclear power plant's CO2 emissions are about 70-120 grams of CO2/kilowatto and a wind power plant's 12 grams of CO2/kilowatto, so worst case scenario, ten times less CO2 emissions, i.e. ten times less CO2 emissions, calculated on a wind power station kilowatt hour than a nuclear power plant. So to say that simply by building a new nuclear power plant, how much CO2 can be saved is quite simply a fraud, and this is a so-called green painting, in which it seems that the Orbán government, Péter Szijjártó and you are specifically trying to cover up, because real green measures, real steps towards renewable energies are not being taken. In fact, they're doing it backwards, because they're making the use of domestic solar energy impossible right now. Unfortunately, we also know that Hungarian homes consume an average of 1.5 times as much heat energy as the Austrians, because this is another reason why they should have continued the panel program in the last 12 years, for example, and, for example, EU subsidies are actually used for the benefit of the population, for the insulation of residential buildings. You didn't do this, and that's why hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families have a problem with paying their energy bill as a result of their debts, their overhead increases. The way you are dealing with climate change is also particularly worrying, and now it seems that the climate issue will also belong to the energy wallet. In an ideal world where a government has a lot to do with supporting renewable energy sources, this could be a good thing, but since I hear from you that wind power is banned, solar power cannot be used now, Nosza, let's open lignite mines and produce more lignite. So, I'm saying with this attitude, it would be better if the climate issue didn't go to the energy wallet, because I don't know who would be in this ministry, who would really speak out against climate protection measures that are unsustainable, for example, that they allowed private forest, but protected forests, and Natura 2000; that they would encourage people to fire wet trees instead of not knowing how to support heat pumps. So they have virtually a lot of unsustainable measures, and I'm afraid that no one in this ministry will object to this, because the climate issue will also consist of you trying to promote lignite mines, so I think this is a very, very bad direction. I do not know, for example, who talks about the fact that our Prime Minister flies with private public jets for example to international football matches, shows the most unsustainable customs in existence to the Hungarian population from which he asks for savings and freezing by pointing out to Brussels and sanctions. And for example, I would like to mention that I do not know how much you know about the two private planes that Viktor Orbán and Péter Szijjártó used to fly to Szamarkand at the same time, but separately to the Turk peak. So, for example, with this much fossil fuel, all public institutions in a small village could be operated for months. So you're asking the public for savings, but it doesn't seem like they're saving themselves. And here in parentheses I say that I might not be able to get the goldfish of Máté Kocsis here, because that was more than funny, unfortunately. So, if we have already mentioned what other ministries would be needed, I would like to stress, in addition to what has already been mentioned, that we want a Ministry of the Environment. You can call it the Ministry of Environment and Climate Affairs, or the Ministry of Environment and Nature or the Ministry against the Climate Crisis, I leave this to you, but in any case it would be very important that environmental and environmental protection and climate protection are finally represented by someone in the Hungarian government. Back in 2010, you promised that, although there would be no separate Ministry of Environment, the weight of this sector will not be reduced, but the fact is that during the last 12 years, the representation of this sector has continuously decreased, the environmental and nature protection situation has steadily deteriorated. And while there are obviously still some people committed to the Fidesz government on this subject, they have practically no word, and those billings are coming in, we are going to vote on the sale of protected areas in the framework of the property law today; so we are coming up with legislative proposals that indicate that you are crushing environmental and nature protection and climate protection with two legs. There is no responsibility for sustainability and climate protection in the Hungarian government now, and in the country where tens of thousands die every year, hundreds of thousands become ill because of air pollution; where they practically cut down the protected forests; where we know that the Deputy Prime Minister's hobby is the shooting of wildlife, and the Prime Minister's next-door neighbor, from public money to multibillionaires, is one of the largest environmental pollutants. [[13.40]] So in this country, there is virtually no meaningful representation of environmental protection, and now they want to create a Ministry of Misplaced Directions and Structures. So I think that it is time, and I hope that more and more voters will realise that this whole failed policy is far from being caused by sanctions in Brussels. You are now using this as a scapegoat, and you are trying to blame it on everything, but the fact is that here it is Viktor Orbán and Viktor Orbán who is bouncing in everything, who is making bad decisions, and that is why Hungary's energy situation and energy policy are there, where we are practically not only in the field of climate protection, but also in the area of renewable energy. And in the area of energy efficiency, we are in a very bad position, and the population is paying a lot of rent. So to be honest with you, since I want to be good for the country and I want to be good for the Hungarian population, I would be very happy if the new Ministry could correct these mistakes. We fear that he will not, but in any case we will be watching him, and we will try as a Dialogue, as a Green Party, to draw attention every time to the fact that a XXI. In a European country of the century, energy policy should move in what direction. Thank you.
u2022-11-22-100	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr László Toroczkai, leader of the group, is the lead speaker of the Group of our countries. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-11-22-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I would like to point out that both the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of Economic Development are justified, as is the reason why the Ministry of Construction and Investment should be renamed Ministry of Construction and Transport. It's not our problem, it's our problem that the Fidesz government is doing ad hoc governance again. In 2010, governance started with eight ministries, and now there will be twelve, while important areas such as education and health still do not have a separate ministry. But there is a bigger problem, which is a systemic problem. In the last 12 years, we have seen that, while it has been quite clear for years that we should move towards self-sufficiency, whether in the field of energy or in the economy, the government has done nothing to achieve this. We see that now, when you refer to the war in Ukraine and you refer to the sanctions in Brussels, which I would like to emphasise almost without exception, virtually supported and voted in favour of the Orbán government, all the way from the summit of the Heads of Government of Versailles; so, while the government refers to this in a rather perverse manner and reserved for the usual double speech, this is a fraud and a lie, because twelve years ago, after the shameful Balliberal governments, we have seen where their economic policies have led. The problem is that the Orbán government has pursued the same economic policy. All that has happened in the last 12 years under the title of economic development is that it has maintained the economic policy of the past decades, the wrong economic policy that we have seen during the Gyurcsány government and the Bajnai government, among other things, was that it was much more supportive of global large companies than the domestic and the SME sector and domestic businesses. Well, the Orbán government has been able to milk this over the last 12 years, and it has supported these multinational companies with even more money. And in recent months, the Prime Minister's answers to my immediate questions have shown that the Orbán government does not want to change this policy. Prime Minister has made it clear that they believe that this economic policy is good and that it is good, for example, in Debrecen, where the government supports the BMW investment by HUF 120 billion while destroying over 400 hectares of excellent land. And we don't know how long the BMW's gonna be here, and we don't know who's gonna be working there with foreign, cheap migrant workers. We live with the suspicion lawsuit that most Hungarians will not be employed by BMW either, as we now see in more and more places in Hungary. If this is economic policy, if the government wants to continue it, then it is completely unjustified to create a new Ministry of Economic Development. If the government wants to change this line and, for example, the 1000 billion forints that are supposed to be pumped into the Hungarian economy, let's say they do not want to give it to these global corporations, for example, if they are willing to levy digital taxes on those global tech giants that Austria dares to tax in Hungary, then it is good that there is a Ministry of Economic Development. If they are going to pursue the same policy, then BMW, Audi or even Facebook should not be supported by a separate ministry. We have the same problem with energy. In the last 12 years, the government has done nothing to ensure that we are self-sufficient at some level, at least the energy policy can guarantee Hungary real independence or sovereignty. It is very interesting that now, when it is possible to refer to the war in Ukraine and the sanctions in Brussels, which I stress are voted in order by the Orbán government, then suddenly MOL also finds new oil fields. At the moment, a new oil field was found near Vecsés, which could cause the loss caused by the ageing oil field. Obviously, no efforts have been made in the last 12 years, and the government has not encouraged MOL to make such efforts to see what kind of natural gas supply Hungary really has, that it would actually be worth extracting, exploiting, or paying more than it would be to bring the energy source from abroad. Such efforts have not been made and have not been supported. Now we suddenly see that there is oil in Hungary, and obviously we know that there is also natural gas under Hungary. Then we have also said many times that we can think about hybrid energy policy, which does not reject green energy, does not reject renewable energy, but it is not enough to say that there should be investments or, say, I cannot put solar panels on top of our house, we also need to support this energy to be stored. We see that in the case of feed-back, solar panels, solar energy, the government is eliminating the feed-back, because in the last 12 years it has not thought, for example, about energy storage, about how renewable energy could be kept and put into the system as much as possible, but the system usage fee, if we talk about the system with great momentum, is constantly being increased by the government. If, therefore, this is the government's energy policy, while we have known for many years that the energy policy at EU level, represented by Brussels or even by the German government, which wanted to drive nuclear energy completely out, while we know that this is suitable for constant energy supply, as much as we support wind energy, clearly cannot be regarded as constant energy, so years ago it was known that this energy policy in Brussels was obviously a failure. If, therefore, the government is not a new and specifically hybrid, it is seeking solutions that primarily serve Hungary's energy independence, sovereignty of Hungary, and try to keep energy here as much as water should be kept here; if we are talking about keeping it here, instead of allowing water to flow out through the Danube, Tisza, and then, after years of drought such as this year, the Hungarian economy, Hungarian agriculture, is in great trouble; if the government does not start thinking not only about such strategic issues, but also about finally moving to the stage of implementation, then there is no need for the Ministry of Energy. So the very big question is what the government wants, it wants to change its energy policy so far, it wants to change its economic policy so far. If you want, these two ministries can be justified. However, we continue to say that there are ministries that are unnecessary. Once there is a Prime Minister's Office, please resolve the questions belonging to the Prime Minister's Office. Within this Ministry, there is no need for a Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister as a separate Ministry. But once again, for education and health, two such cardinals should have planned a ministry in any way. This is a disgrace, and in the long term Hungary's future is threatened by the lack of education and health, by two ministries dealing with such an extremely important area in the current proposal and by amending the law. Then a few more words about the fact that I started by saying that it is justified that the Ministry of Construction and Investment should be renamed Ministry of Construction and Transport. This is an open confession to the fact that there are no and there will not be, and it is not very much planned to invest in Hungary. We know and know the government's battle with Brussels, however, we need investment, and obviously we also see that at present the government wants to meet almost all expectations in Brussels, to vote not only on sanctions, but also on political issues that we know are very bad for Hungarians, they seem to be very bad for European nations. So, sooner or later, there will probably be an EU resource. [[13.50]] But this is an open admission that the government is therefore not planning to invest, and very serious progress cannot be expected here in the coming years. As far as transport is concerned, we are pleased that transport has appeared on behalf of a ministry. I think that every Hungarian knows exactly where the transport situation is in Hungary; whether we are thinking about the state of the roads, we have amazing experiences, whether from my own narrower Patrriat let me mention that I don't know where the European Union's external Schengen border section has such a high quality road as Asotthalom and Bački Vinogradi but we say in Hungarian, so at Királyhalom's international border crossing point, where 600-700 thousand people are crossing, Hungarian and foreign citizens every year, after their röszkei, this border crossing is already the second largest traffic, and even in the Kádár system, long before I was born, they built a road that took me to the farmland world, trying to reach some farms, now the traffic of the international border crossing with 600-700 thousand people. I think it is more than embarrassing for Hungary that someone from the Balkans is entering Hungary and the European Union and is experiencing far worse conditions than in Serbia or in other countries of the Balkans. So it's probably justified, because from every county, from Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County, from Békés County, Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, we can tell the same experiences from a lot of counties. So it would be very good if this amendment was not only about the need to delete the word "investment" from the name of the Ministry, but it would be about the fact that they will really deal with transport, because I didn't even talk about what was going on with the railway, what was going on with bus transport, not to mention the state of public transport in Hungary today. So, if these amendments really bring about substantial changes and the government started to work towards building the Hungarian national economy, to give the thousand billion forints to those Hungarian families that want to create a family economy for the production of niche products, which has a solvent market in the western part of the European Union, if the government would give this kind of money to them, then we would say that there should be a Ministry of Economic Development, because it would be a huge need to implement a huge turnaround in the Hungarian economy. If it really is what the Prime Minister has said to me on my question here, so how will the economic policy so far remain, then in support of the BMW, I think that there is no need to create a separate ministry. If there really is a change in energy, hybrid solutions will be supported, and they will try to exploit and explore the opportunities available in Hungary, as MOL has now found the oil field in Vecs, then we can support it. If the government continues not to make or see any proposals in this direction, we cannot support this. Just as we cannot support, especially on the day of public education, the fact that the government does not devote a separate ministry to education, health care. That's our problem with this amendment. And most of all, our problem is that we still see the government doing ad hoc politics. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-11-22-102	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mr Lóránt Keresztes. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-11-22-103	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I am listening to the speakers before me here, and I think there is a place for us to make an assessment of what a serious crisis we are experiencing, and also for us to appreciate the government's responsibility for the development or severity of this situation. It is also important to look at the responsibility of this government, if we look at the 2022 elections, for the post-2010 period of government, and we also need to talk about the responsibility of the governments before 2010, or we can say that all governments of the long three decades after the regime change. I think that we should start from the situation, as my fellow Member, István Hiller pointed out, that we are living not only a terrible time or very difficult years, but also a very deep crisis; and it is also beginning to become clear to everyone now that this is not going to be a short-term crisis and that the hardest is likely to be ahead of us. So we are basically in the era of crises, and we need to think and act in times of crisis. Here is the question when we talk about this bill, that the government is willing to face what reality is, so it is willing to assess reality properly, in sufficient depth, and is willing, after the past 12 years, to finally make a substantive correction after the failed policy of the last 12 years. So it's not just that one of the important ministers has resigned and that we need to put a little after the government structure, but that they are actually willing to act on merit at least now. I think, too, that we are obviously skeptical, that the government is willing and able to make such a change, that in this situation, it is, in principle, our duty to look into the future rather than criticising the governance of the past period, and to look for the answer that István Hiller referred to, that the government understands the future, that we all understand the future, and that we can all make clear ways and make clear suggestions. What is quite terrifying, by the way, is what we have faced here in such a complex and serious time of crisis. A long week ago, perhaps ten days ago, we had a debate on the issue of nuclear safety, we had a debate on the national environmental programme, and I began my speech by saying that it was frightening that we do not know that there is a competent minister on these important issues; otherwise, including transport, it belonged to Minister Palkovics, too. That's when I got a little reprimand from Mr. President about what this has to do with the debate on a bill. I think it is very much so, because government performance and its effects for all of us can be judged if we see and appreciate how the government works, what they do and what they do not do. We are now so far ahead that we know that László Palkovics is no longer in place, he resigned, and we can also see the structure in which he imagines to be dismantled by government decision-makers, we can say that he left the Ministry unclaimed. And, by the way, it is important to remember that it is not surprising that László Palkovics resigned. I will give you one example: on 27 October, László Palkovics spoke at a forum in such a live debate about the government's decision to allow wind energy, he said as Minister for Energy Policy. Then, on 2 November, I asked Prime Minister Viktor Orbán here, who refuted his own minister, contradicted the responsible minister; and this was not the first time, by the way, when Minister László Palkovics was very strongly opposed to government measures and government decisions. I don't know if the last serious breach of energy policy was the reason for his departure, or the fundamental difference in attitude, but that may not be the interesting thing anymore. This is the case, as I have listened to some of my fellow Members here, to basically divide government work, government performance, but I am engaged in a much more constructive speech, and I am preparing to really try to make substantive proposals in order to correct the government's work in a better direction now, and to clearly clarify what it is that should actually be done now. Because he was talking about the Secretary of State, and it is important to refer back to it that the last six months have led to changes that need to be corrected. You have said that there is a need for effective governance, that there is a situation here because of the sanctions voted without exception by the failed Brussels and Viktor Orbán, and that this is basically the decision to make a change here. There was a slight contradiction here, by the way, Mr Secretary of State, that the government had decided that there would be a transformation, and that the lead speaker of Fidesz spoke about Minister Palkovic leaving, and that would require some kind of change to be made as such a follow-up, but let's say it doesn't matter. Now, what I can say here at the beginning of my speech is that the approach you have taken, Mr Secretary of State, is fundamentally wrong. We are not facing the phenomena of the last six months here, and we do not have to give some kind of government answer to them. Here we can see the effects of extremely serious system problems, obviously the war conflict and other things, we can say that current issues are given, but overall we are in such a difficult situation, because we are experiencing such a multifaceted crisis because these system problems are here with us, and these have, in recent years, not turned in a better direction, or the government has not taken any meaningful steps to correct them, but have made these problems worse. And if we take it a little tighter here, isn't it, the establishment of the Ministry of Energy, the portfolio of the former Ministry of Innovation and Technology, now most recently the Ministry of Technology and Industry, I think we can learn a lot about how deep this crisis is and how much this correction should be. [[14.00]] I have a few questions for the Secretary of State, but I am very confident that the tendency of pro-government representatives to participate much more enthusiastically in policy debates than in recent years is still valid today, and then this question, or these questions, may not necessarily be answered by the Secretary of State, but by my fellow pro-government Members, but no matter how it happens, would certainly be forward-looking. So my question is that the government is willing to follow the Prime Minister in some ways and put it on the table on certain issues, let's say the facts. I have been confronting the government with the situation in the water utility sector for years, and Prime Minister, at least we have heard statements showing the weight of the problem, and then he made it clear that for two years it is certain that they do not want to spend on it. Would the government be willing to face these problems at such a depth as the collapse of public transport, our energy system? That's what Prime Minister was talking about not so long ago. In this context, we can see that very drastic and harsh government interventions have taken place when we talk only about household solar panels. So, finally, is there any chance that the government will actually make a proper and real assessment of the situation and not just try to do some sort of political communication fine-tuning? My next question is, what is the concept of the government, so does it even have a concept of government transformation, or what really happens is that I don't know if there was any bargaining. Here, there are rumors in the press that there was an intention of how much it was transformed, how much it reduced the portfolio of the Ministry of Technology and Industry. Besides the fact that László Palkovics resigned, does the government have some kind of strategic idea as to why transport goes to János Lázár, why the industry goes, I don't even know which one, the Ministry of Economics, and why this government transformation? We can see that the uncertainty was not only tangible and tangible on the issue of whether or not he was a minister responsible two weeks ago or ten days ago, but that he would be a new ministry, or that he would be a successor to László Palkovics, or how the government structure would be transformed. So what's the plan? We have heard very strong and clear statements earlier on, for example, the Paks II project. Prime Minister often refused to answer when I asked about the progress of the project, that this is such a complicated question that we need a specialist here; right, János Süli was the expert, and he was the owner of this project as Minister without a wallet. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán practiced self-criticism, or held back, and in this matter, he said that we should ask János Süli. Well, János Süli, for example, is not now, and Paks II. It belongs to Péter Szijjártó, so here we are discovering fundamental contradictions. My fellow Member, Toroczkai, has already pointed out that they once started in a top-secret system, which is something Prime Minister has defended for a long time that he is thinking about this structure, but now the number of ministries has started to multiply very strongly. So do you have a concept, a strategy idea, or did you simply have to replace László Palkovics relatively quickly after his resignation? My next question is not only the establishment of the Ministry of Energy, but also a significant division of tasks and the establishment of the Ministry of Economy, that if we are talking only about the Ministry of Energy, and you are obviously looking at the last few years or the period seen since 2014, so that the Ministry of Innovation and Technology is functioning, then you have spoken to the Minister-designate about what will be the way in which it works, what will be the attitude of this new Ministry. I am thinking of the fact that Minister Palkovics's wallet carried such fundamental matters as the water utility issue, public transport, energy policy, nuclear safety, industrial development, environmental protection, climate policy, and so on, and this was the ministry's ministry, so many criticisms, I do not want to be unsportsmanous with a minister who has resigned, and is not here to be able to respond, we can say that one of them was one of these monsters, one of the top ministries, and could not communicate with him. So, when the Minister had his annual hearing, it could have been, then, you listened to the questions, Minister, answered them in substance, responded, but between the two-year ministerial hearing, there was simply no way that we could have obtained a meaningful response here in a parliamentary debate in respect of these strategic sectors, or to our written question, and here the ministry would have gone beyond such a political stimulus. So there's gonna be a change in that? Is it opening up, and I am basically not just thinking about the parliamentary factions, and the Ministry of Energy will go to society, science, the profession, and will it be possible to have such a meaningful dialogue? Because it seems that this is absolutely necessary. One more question: what will be the power of an energy minister, or, if you like, what will his weight be? A few days ago, at the meeting of the Committee on Sustainable Development, our guest was the Madam President of the National Atomic Energy Office and the former Secretary of State responsible for energy matters, Pál Kovács, who is the Deputy Chairman of the Energy Office, and there from the presentations and presentations, it was perfectly realistic to see the extent to which Hungary is exposed to the need for energy imports, so how great the need is, and on the other hand, we see government flagship projects such as battery production, which brutally increases Hungary's energy demand and energy exposure. So if such a ministry of energy is reduced now, or if it is created in its narrower portfolio, which, for example, cannot cover the issue of industry, then, in fact, such a windmill fight will not be such that the issue of Hungary's energy security should be represented by a wallet, while the Hungarian government is increasing its energy needs. Minister Palkovics has set an example here only in relation to the gigantic Chinese battery plant project in Debrecen, where you, I don't know, are tens of billions, but you may be pumping hundreds of billions of dollars of state money, that the energy needs of the battery plant there can be compared to or even exceed one of the blocks of the nuclear power plant now operating. So, when we already have such a significant import demand and face such serious problems in energy policy, can we, say, increase Hungary's energy needs in this way in line with Chinese economic interests? So my question relates specifically to what kind of weight it really is, what scope it will be for this new ministry. It is also very clear, and this has also emerged from the speech of several of my fellow Members that it is not really about how a ministry is named, but about what content a government works with. So, let's say, where appropriate, does the government have cooperation, strategic thinking, or does the government have a vision of the future that is then reflected in government measures, ministerial decision-making? I have very powerful questions about that. We can see that this new Ministry of Energy will be responsible for an amazing portfolio, even though it will not be near László Palkovics's former Ministry wallet. This will include environmental protection, energy policy, mining, nuclear safety and water utility services in general within energy policy. Now, among these important areas, we are experiencing the challenges of energy policy, and I do not think it is worth wasting too much of a word on this. But will there be any change in energy policy ideas, government directions? Compared to recent years, we began to hear statements from Mr Palkovics miniszer that the government re-evaluates the measures on the administrative limitation of wind energy, and I have already mentioned a specific announcement from Minister Palkovic on 27 October, and we have also heard from Minister-designate Lantos that he looks at wind energy with a different concept. What's in it for you? Does the Secretary of State know that my fellow Members know that there will be a change in that? Will the government finally allow the installation of wind power plants, so will this administrative limitation be lifted? Then I would be very interested in some important issues on the issue of nuclear safety. I would not go into the general debate on nuclear energy now in such a short speech, although we are always ready for debates, but we can still see the serious contradictions between the current government rhetoric and the government statements from a few years ago. Here I would like to quote Mr Péter Kaderjak, former Secretary of State responsible for energy policy, with whom we had a debate here in November 2020 on a further extension of the operating time, so that the currently operating blocks will be extended for another 20 years, and then the then responsible Secretary of State said to me: "This is not the policy of the government. The government's policy is to implement the Paks II project, and if you want my personal opinion, then I think that together with the Paks II project and the Paks I blocks, the lifetime extension is impossible. It is impossible to achieve this even for financial reasons, and it makes no sense. So the government's position is firmly that Paks II project, capacity maintenance, but we do not ban thinking about anything that someone wants to think about, of course, said this rather clear resolution published by Péter Kaderjak then. [[14.10]] I don't necessarily want to quote Lajos Kósa literally, although he also suggested in June 2019 that the exact reason why Paks II was needed was precisely that of Paks II. the construction of Paks' current nuclear power plant is well over, or is moving towards the end of its operating time, and obviously it cannot be pushed any further. What are the reasons for the difference in government communication in this regard? It could now be said that the government has practically accepted that Paks II. Can't make it happen, and that's why you're thinking about another extension? Once again, it is a very, very exciting and not exciting question, but a crucial question: what can they say about energy security in a context where the government is preparing for another extension of operational time, while there have been 38 events in the case of the current nuclear power plant in the last five years, which were not planned maintenance, but some kind of failure, unscheduled retraction, and the rest. What do you have to say to that? Obviously, it would create the framework for such a debate if I even asked for cooling water, although I think that is also a realistic question. That is why I like to organise more detailed policy debates at the meetings of the Committee on Sustainable Development so that they can be discussed there. I would like to thank the President of the Atomic Energy Office for being open to this. I would also like to refer to a very important question, a very important subject. I am trying to limit myself, because I have talked a lot about the issue of water utilities, but this is a case that again has not been or is a problem in the last six months, but already in 2017 the County City Association said that the sector is in crisis. Two years ago, Prime Minister said to me that the deficit and the problem here is indeed a thousand billion-dollar magnitude. What will this new ministry do with this question? Is there any intention of that? And how can you interpret what the Prime Minister said to me two weeks ago, that it is not the intention that is missing, but the money? It is clear that compared to the current budget or next year's budget, it would require hundreds of billions of forints per year to ensure that the drinking water supply does not collapse. The question could also be asked quite clearly: does the government plan to maintain drinking water in Hungary in the medium term? Or are you done with that? Because if they didn't hang up, there would be a need for a fundamental and very substantial fiscal transfer and a shift in government direction. I would like to refer to one more point that has already been mentioned, Mr Toroczkai, on the matter of transport. If I'm not mistaken, Hungary's last transport minister was János Fónagy. He was a Minister of Transport and Water, and, as I recall, he was in office until 2002. I have resented the fact that there has been no proper government representation in the transport sector, no transport policy. But obviously this is a much bigger and more comprehensive problem than putting it in the name of one of the existing ministries, that it is also responsible for transport, and that we are transferring one or two State Secretarys there. In this matter, is the government willing to face not only the past 12 years, but the failed policy and serious failures of the past decades? I read here what will be added to the role of János Lázár: safety and safety of transport, training drivers. These are extremely important matters, but I do miss the fact that a fundamental and comprehensive transport reform or Community transport reform would at all be the task of the government itself; five to six years ago, it did so to face it. Are you willing to use the available national and European Union funds in such a way that they really seek to carry out tasks in the interests of the Hungarian people, and are not, in fact, the execution of incomprehensible and unprotected projects from the side of Hungarian national interests? What about the Hungarian railway sidelines? We have seen that, as the Covid crisis began, their first action was to close traffic on about twenty railway sidelines and, in the debate, to refer to the mistakes made by previous Balliberal governments regarding the closure of railway sidelines. But the question may be that you are finally willing to develop the railway sidelines and when to open the railway sidelines that, by the way, your legitimate criticisms have been brought to a close by the Balliberal governments at the time. Will it be national bus manufacturing? For example, many years ago, this was promised. Is it finally possible to change this issue? Since 2010, since we have been present in the Hungarian Parliament, we have tried to be constructive here as well, and more than once we have put a comprehensive transport strategy on the table, the essence of which is to look only at the area of public transport with a comprehensive integrated system, a national timetable, the elimination of parallels, the establishment of the tariff community, the creation of clear customer guarantees with the appropriate transport associations. This is basically a condition for talking about a real rural policy and catching up in rural areas in Hungary at all. Will the government be able to implement a comprehensive transport programme? Will John Lazarus have the lobbying power, the weight within the government, to do so, and with which wallets will he have to work more closely? I would like to refer to one more question. My fellow Member, István Hiller, and later other Members, spoke of the fact that basically there should be a Ministry of Education in the governance structure, because if we are talking about the future, it is clear that it is possible to secure the Hungarian future, to build the Hungarian future only with a well-functioning education. It has already been mentioned here that there is some change in the governance structure and some level of representation of transport policy. I think no one has contested that the Ministry of Energy has a place, but water matters are also a comprehensive issue, which I believe to be a very significant factor in our future. We can see that we are facing challenges here, too, which, Mr Secretary of State, have not appeared in the last six months, and are not only a deep system of problems due to the operation of governments after 2010, but the situation we are experiencing is due to the misguided, misguided governance of many decades. Basically, I'm talking about poor water management, how much more water is leaving the country than it is coming in, and how difficult it is for farmers to be affected. The drought has become so severe that we are now talking about centuries of drought. We need a fundamental shift in water management. I've already mentioned the collapse of the water utility system, the protection of our water resources, the protection of our water bases. But we can see how dangerous our surface waters, our lakes, our rivers are, and how far these serious challenges are not taken into account by the government's economic policy. I am thinking about basically battery production, which means not only amazing energy demand, but also huge water demand. I mentioned the Debrecen Battery Company. Not only does it require a patch of block-sized energy, but it also requires as much water as the need for water in Debrecen City. How can the responsible water management and the comprehensive representation of water affairs appear within the governance structure, since we can see that there will still be no Ministry of Water for Hungary? I'd like to make one final thought. I try to be constructive on these issues and look ahead, to try to interpret the future, to formulate the right paths and to seize the opportunity to act. And I would also like to thank those members of the government who are open to such a policy dialogue. For example, Minister István Nagy participated in a substantive policy debate at the meeting of the Committee on Sustainable Development for three hours. And that is why it was joyful that, at the meeting of the Hungarian Permanent Conference, the most important Hungarian-Hungarian summit, the idea of moving towards sustainable water management and sustainable forest management was included in the final document on my proposal. I think these are positive signs. I will take a positive approach, and I very much hope that there will be a meaningful space for the proposals that the LMP faction will put before the Parliament. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2022-11-22-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. I give the floor from DK to Congressman Balázs Barkóczi. Here you go.
u2022-11-22-105	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, They used to say life was the best director. Indeed, it is symbolic that on the day of Hungarian public education we are discussing the new structure of government, the structure of the government, which again lacks the plan and vision of the independent Ministry of Education in a painful way, as many have already said. [[14.20]] Let me take this opportunity to argue with my fellow Member, Mr Z. Karpa, on one thing. I think that the fact that a sector has an independent ministry is not only a symbolic issue, it means that that sector has a political responsibility and that sector has a meaningful representation. As I said before the agenda, there is now no responsibility and no representation of teachers, public education actors, no place to turn with 16,000 teachers missing from the system, with a 12.1 percent early school dropout rate. I note in parentheses that this has only decreased under the second Gyurcsány government, and has been growing ever since; by taking the right to strike away from teachers and now not allowing them to exercise the right of civil resistance. What is more, he is not responsible for the fact that despite the fact that the Act on the Functioning of Parliament assures that state bodies are obliged to answer to a Member of Parliament within 30 days, Marosi Beatrix has refused to do so for more than 40 days, even though I only asked him in a letter after I could not reach the head of the school district on the phone, as to why he had fired the teachers from the crèches, except that he obviously received the instructions from above. Let me add one more thing. You will obviously refer to saving, as you have done in countless cases. In the current government there were 70 State Secretarys, which was 14 during the second Gyurcsány government; fourteen State Secretarys. So much for saving money. Thank you very much.
u2022-11-22-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. There is also a two-minute speech from the KDNP Group by Mrs Hajnalka Juhász. Here you go.
u2022-11-22-107	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would respond first to Rebecca Szabó's speech, but I have experienced several times that she will give her keynote speaker and leave the room. We've been here since this morning, and I think it's inappropriate. Hungary is excellent at achieving the 2030 and 2055 climate targets. And what we need to understand is what diversification is all about. In addition to the so-called weather-dependent wind power plants and solar power, diversification is about the need for nuclear power. It is completely unnecessary to open a debate on whether or not to be sustainable, since the European Commission has already recognised this point for the 27 Member States. The second thing I see in the case of the opposition is that they see the distribution of ministries in a completely different way; some people think it is many, some think it is few. When we started the cycle, we received criticism of how many ministries we had. Compared to this, Dániel Z. Kárpát wants a Ministry of Consumer Protection, Wage and Labour, a Ministry of Demography and Family Affairs, but we have seen that our fellow Member Arató has added six ministries. You can't see this kind of approach. I would like to conclude by saying that none of my opposition fellow Members mentioned an exception because he referred to this and Lóránt Keresztes, that February 24, 2022, the Russian-Ukrainian war is extremely difficult, put us in a new position, and I reject the fact that the Ministry of Energy is showing the failure of the Hungarian government. No, it is the result of your ability to react that we are adapting to this energy crisis, and we are doing everything we can to ensure the security of energy supply for the Hungarian people. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-11-22-108	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. We will continue with the speeches by Members. From the Jobbik Group, Mr Brenner Koloman, former vice-president, is taking the floor. Here you go.
u2022-11-22-109	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on the debate in two logical parts. In the first round, what is the reason for this government transformation. This has indeed been explained by the Secretary of State. I think it is quite clear why this is necessary. Because it turned out that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, six months after the formation of this government in this structure of government, saw fit to have a new kind of ministerial position. As Daniel Z. Kárpát mentioned, my dear fellow Member, we have never debated this right of the Prime Minister or of the governing parties. However, let me say, as I did yesterday in my speech before the agenda, that Minister Palkovic has cast a shadow on his work so far, in my view, that he did not resign from the post of minister when he had separated the MTA's research network from the MTA in a rather brutal way. I can say this as a member of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, adding that the Constitutional Court has recently taken a decision on the need to restore its original status. I'm gonna wonder how serious the Fidesz one-party overpower takes the rule of law this time. Minister Palkovics did not resign when the university world was unprepared and turned into 80 percent foundational reservation, which is not a problem with the foundation form, as I always explain, in every debate, it can be traced back, but, as has been done, with the almost exclusively Fidesz-related persons and active ministers sitting in the curatoriums. In our opinion, this cannot be imagined in a balanced civil democracy, nor is it the appointment of a responsible Secretary of State, Secretary of State Bódis, to the Board of Governors of his own university. So there are things that are not written in law, but in a decent civil democracy, it is not appropriate to do that. I think that in these very serious matters relating to his ministerial activity, Minister Palkovics should have resigned. Now he has resigned because he lacked the portfolio that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán intended for him in this new transformation. According to press reports, three working days a week Minister was short of five. The reason why this happened is that you could not decide for five days, five whole days whether the Minister had actually resigned and could not confirm it, and then when, after five days, it turned out that the press had actually resigned and that the news had been true, there would be a transitional period, since Minister Rogán is now overseeing these areas for a few weeks. This is one part of the reasons for the current government transformation, and let me say a word here about the energy security of Hungarian citizens, as I would like to state in this case, as my fellow Member, Mr Lóránt Keresztes, pointed out, that Minister Palkovics has actually made statements that the installation of wind power plants, which has been virtually banned since 2011, by means of an amendment to a government regulation, will allow again. In this case, I have repeatedly tabled proposals for a decision to dissolve it. The last time Minister made these statements, the Fidesz majority in the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Legislative Affairs did not support this proposal for a resolution, even though not only ELTE researchers know, but I think that all people in Kisaland or, say, in the Sopron region always know where the wind blows from the northwest direction and constantly, and we know that there are many regions in Hungary where wind power plants can be delivered in a very sustainable and efficient way, in the current very difficult energy situation, to an energy source that is extremely important as a conservative party responsible for us. Plus, we're not anti-nuclear. We have always expressed our view that it has been quite clear now that even in Germany this issue is being re-thought, well, in this very difficult situation, it is very necessary to build Paks II, both the Paks I block and Paks II, but not with Russian technology. I have also explained this several times, since this is not part of the debate, and I will not explain it again. I just wanted to say that I am not debating this very important issue of energy security, but that this ministerial structure is able to make positive progress in general. I have great doubts here. And in the second half of my speech, like a little more of my fellow Members, and in joining my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, let me tell you what the difference in government philosophy is between us. [[14.30]] Since 2010, the government structure has broken off with the tradition that all responsible governments have held since the regime change since Prime Minister József Antall. You have broken up with the basic ministerial structure and division of tasks that there really is a minister responsible for policy areas. Because after the change of regime, this was the tradition that József Antall reached back to previous historical periods, not the communist one-party system, and said that he was responsible for the ministry in Budapest with responsible ministers. You guys broke up with this tradition in 2010, and from this point on, there will be some kind of government structures, if you think about what kind of ministries have been in such a fluid state since 2010 and I'm not talking about genderfluid, thank God, then you can see that the Prime Minister's current political communication policy has always defined the ministerial structure, and not the common good, which is of paramount importance to us as a conservative party. It is not that education is a priority nation strategy sector, which is why we need the Ministry of Education or the Ministry of Education and Digitalisation, for example, if you are asking me about my personal opinion now, it is not that there should be a Ministry of Health, no. But we always adjust it to the political communication of the coming year's main blow:... and, of course, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, as a very clever power technician, always competes with the various ministers and State Secretarys, because there are overlaps between the different ministries, which always reveal a kind of rivalry. This, of course, may be interesting for the wider public at a kind of tabloid level, but that it is not in the interest of Hungarian citizens, I am absolutely certain of that. I think that, moreover, six months after the creation of a new Orbán government, a transformation whose circumstances are very interesting, it is not certain that it is forward-looking in terms of being the responsible and responsible leader of the policy areas of major importance for the common good, but again, as has been the decision of all the Orbán governments since 2010, to adapt the state apparatus to the next six months to one year's thematic experiment. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me conclude by saying that we believe that Hungarian citizens should be entitled to XX. by the century [[Sic!]] proper modern administration and public administration, because it is the only thing that can give them the prosperity and freedom that we believe they deserve. Thank you for your attention.
u2022-11-22-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The consolidated debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Balázs Fürjes, State Secretary, if you would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I would like to inform the Secretary of State that you have a timeframe of 19 minutes and 53 seconds. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-11-22-111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, A lot has been said, let's go in order. Of course, we thank the governing parties for their support. I will only address the very big differences of opinion and factual slippages so much has been said. Mr harvesto is also one of the Members, and his entire party seems to be one of the Members to give their own comments, but they do not want to hear the answers and answers, which, of course, they have the right to do. So he was talking about the fact that there were sanctions in April to say that circumstances have changed since then. Well, there were no sanctions in April. That is exactly what I said in my speech that, at the end of February, at the beginning of March, the Heads of State of the European Union said that there would be no energy sanctions, and that in June the first package came, i.e. after the April elections and the May government formation. Now let's talk a little bit about the false accusations raised by several opposition speakers, the claim that the Orbán government will vote in favour of the sanctions proposals in Brussels. We have not voted in favour of any proposal for an energy guarantee in Brussels. If the proposals in Brussels that the European Commission had lived with had passed through without bone, now we would be in big trouble. What does the Hungarian government do? Every single proposal in Brussels which is detrimental to Hungary, our oil use, our gas use, and it seems that we have before us the question of nuclear power... we have rejected every proposal in Brussels that is detrimental to Hungary, we have fought out exceptions and exemptions. None of the decisions apply to Hungary as planned by the European Commission. What's your problem? Your problem is that we are fighting exceptions and exemptions for Hungary and the Hungarian people, or their problem is that we are not preventing or vetoing the unity of the European Union, or endangering the unity of the European Union? What position would you want to push the Government of Hungary into? Should we do as you propose not to fight out exemptions and exceptions, or to prevent the European Union from functioning and veto everything on issues that are irrelevant to us? Is that the responsible attitude? Where would we be with EU money? ! Of course, we know that you are constantly working to ensure that we do not have access to the European Union's funds due to Hungary. The behaviour of the Hungarian government in the case of energy sanctions is the only responsible behaviour on the basis of Hungarian interests. We will still not accept, even if you object to the European Commission's proposals, which are detrimental to us, we will fight for exceptions and exemptions, and otherwise we will not endanger European unity alone in irrelevant cases. Everyone can think about the possible consequences of this. The real question is which one of you has a problem. You have a problem with the fact that we are fighting exemptions and exceptions, and we do not accept the proposals in Brussels that are detrimental to Hungary, or their problem is that we are not wheelies on irrelevant issues, and we are not going to upset the EU unity alone with Hungary's veto. Then, what DK, a representative of the Gyurcsány Party, also said, we will do nothing and cause the crisis. Such topiks have returned in other opposition speeches, so it is worth a few words. We're causing the crisis. So, against all your fears and phobias, Viktor Orbán is not a superman. So he and his government are not responsible for economic processes that are almost identical across Europe in the most diverse national economies. You would be right to assume that the Hungarian government has a responsibility behind the economic difficulties if Hungary, as an island in Europe, were to face economic difficulties alone. This is what happened on the basis of your governments, during the left-wing governments. In 2009, there was not a single country such as your ally, Ferenc Gyurcsány's government, where we needed an IMF respirator, where we had to take away the 13th month's pension, wage cuts, thousands of teachers were laid off, 16,000 hospital beds were closed, and almost all family support was abolished, only in Europe. Well, then it was true what you said now that the government was responsible for the crisis. It would be a long time to go through how left-wing governments taking up office in 2002 and especially the Gyurcsány governments caused the economic crisis that hit Hungary, and because of which we had to take over a country near bankruptcy in 2010, because there was no such crisis elsewhere in Europe, it was indeed the government's responsibility. This is obviously why Hungarian voters punished left-wing parties with the election result in 2010. [[14.40]] We're not doing anything about this one of the most beautiful opposition charges. At this point, the pro-government speaker is a little happy, because it always gives us an opportunity to say what we are doing and, of course, to sign that we can always work better and more, and we do not think that we are perfect, but that nothing we do is certainly true. Now, what's the bottom line? Hungary is facing challenges and troubles from the outside against all other opposition charges. Hungary, thank you very much, was fine, we got out of Covid, we went up, and we got sideways with a global crisis. In such cases, it is the government's duty to eliminate the problems from outside the world economy, war, war in our neighbourhood and EU Member State to the greatest extent possible, to decoupling ourselves from the misguided Brussels sanctions policy when you are fully aware of the extent to which Hungarian energy consumption needs to be imported, we cannot separate ourselves from external factors. In this case, it is our job to resist, mitigate and protect Hungarian families, Hungarian people and Hungarian businesses as much as possible. We're not doing anything, said the lead speaker of the Gyurcsány Party. Well, let's see what nothing is. And that's what other Members have said. Gas stop. If you do a quick head count, an average family, since there is a gas stop in Hungary, in the lower voice this is a very conservative estimate, the real number is higher, but let's be conservative in terms of estimation, in the lower voice, since the average Hungarian family has saved half a million forints thanks to the government's measure. Half a million forints! A two-week summer vacation to Balaton came out of it with several children, if it hadn't been for that, many families couldn't have gone on vacation, or many families couldn't have bought more serious equipment in their household if it hadn't been for half a million forints. Then there's the food stop we're expanding right now, right, for potatoes and eggs. Then there's the overhead and let's really talk numbers. Every Hungarian household every month, every Hungarian family receives HUF 181 thousand per month for an average consumption! This is an annual saving of HUF 2 million per family for families that reach or are below the average. What percentage do you think Hungarian households and families have below or below average consumption, which does not exceed average consumption? 70% of them. 70 percent of Hungarian families save 2 million forints in one year, because the government has introduced and maintained the regulations. Interest stop in the sense that we're not doing anything. 350 thousand families save 140 billion HUF thanks to the interest stop. How do we help businesses? Energy support for 9 thousand small and medium-sized enterprises; business interest rate stop, which we have just introduced, we fixed variable interest rates, and thanks to this 60 thousand companies can benefit from HUF 80 billion in savings. We have a factory rescue program, we have a tourist action plan that provides administrative and financial facilitations for tourism companies. And now we are launching the small-store support program, which helps the small shops to stay on their feet in settlements below 2 thousand people, because the official pricing is mainly in a smaller range of products, which is typical of smaller settlements, undoubtedly causing difficulties, there we are, trying to help. Firewood and brown coal programs. And, of course, we maintain, we do not refer to difficulties and global crises, we maintain our measures introduced at the beginning of the year, at the end of the year, the families have received the money back after the Covid year, the under-25s continue to be exempt from health insurance, and we even think about broadening it, and pensioners have received the 13th month pension, the increase, and in these days they carry the postage pension increase and the pension premium. So much for commenting on the Gyurcsány party. I listened to István Hiller's comment with great respect. There are no equal parties arguing when I respond to your policy on education, because I am quite certain that you are more experienced in this area, but let me add a few things, Congressman. First of all, I understand, thank God, there was an opportunity to discuss all of this a few weeks ago, when, on behalf of the government, perhaps, MEP Rétvári and, of course, the entire parliamentary group were here, and quite thoroughly, in a good, democratic, professional and political debate, this House was able to discuss the situation of education. I do not think that we should reproduce this debate now, please, who is interested in the Government's position in detail, let those minutes be drawn up. I'm sure we can agree that teachers deserve a raise, they deserve more money for their important and responsible work, which is why we're here to raise the wages. I am asking the Member, whom I hope I will not cause him any trouble, but I am personally calling on one of the sober and responsible, few sober and responsible opposition politicians to help him not to hinder the transfer of EU funds to Hungary. 'Cause the thing is, you guys are hitting and hitting us, which is what we're supposed to wear, and I think we're taking it pretty well, and we will, of course, have freedom to do it, and we're always gonna have to do it, and we're gonna have to do it, and we're gonna have to do it, and we're gonna have to do it, and we're gonna have to do it, and we're gonna have to do it, and we're gonna do it, and we're gonna have to do it, and we're gonna do it, and we're gonna have to do it, and we're gonna do it, and we're gonna do it, and we're gonna do it, and we're gonna do it, and we're gonna do it, and we're gonna do it, and we're gonna do it, and we're gonna do it, and we're gonna do it, and we're gonna do it, and we're gonna do it, and we're gonna do it, and we're gonna do it, and we're gonna do it, and we're go, and we're gonna do it, and we're gonna do it, and we're gonna have to do it, and we're gonna do it, and we're gonna do it, and we're go, and we're gonna do it, and we're gonna do it, and we're gonna do it, and we're gonna do it, and we're gonna have to do So the worse you are, the better your policy is going on. You are cheering for and doing so, so that the citizens of Hungary, the citizens of Hungary and Hungarian businesses do not receive EU funds, and unfortunately, Member, I have to say that your peers work for and pray for one of them, there is one among them who will do this, so that we will not get the source from which we can give teachers a higher wage increase than three times 10 percent of the domestic budget allows. I am therefore asking the Member to help and convince his fellow opposition politicians to give up the policy and propaganda they are doing to harm Hungary and to work so that we do not receive EU funds. This could be a good collaboration between us. One more thing about education. I would also like to say that, if I do not venture into deep professional debates with you, Member, that the educational policy achievements and results of a government do not depend on the way in which bureaucratic management is organised. It does not depend on what results a government achieves or achieves, whether there is a fully independent Ministry of Education or a different responsibility for education, because there is education responsibility or ministry parentheses in Hungary: so it is not true that education does not have a ministerial responsibility, and that there would be no ministerial responsibility in education, closed parentheses, is it not, combined with other responsibilities, so the effectiveness of a government in education policy does not depend on whether it has an independent, completely independent Ministry of Education or not. You also pointed out that, therefore, you cannot be proud of all the indicators that were, say, between 2002 and 2010, or of all the trends that have occurred in the field of Hungarian education. For me, it is my most recent statement that if we compare all the indicators that measure the performance of students and the performance of education, and especially the situation or budgetary amounts spent on education and the wages of teachers, then it is the case that left-wing governments come out of this comparison much worse than the civil national government of the last 12 years, even though we do not have an independent, fully independent Ministry of Education. But I agree that there are trends in the world that you have also named some of them, which certainly require a continuous reflection and continuous improvement in the effectiveness of work, and a focus on education. When I heard, for the third time, in András Fekete-Győr's speech, that today is the day of Hungarian public education, I remembered that I was sitting here before the agenda, that there was not a single Member who could mention it, even though we were also on the day of Hungarian public education. Of course, we want the best for all participants in Hungarian public education, and we will never forget that Hungarian public education, like all public education, is primarily for Hungarian families and children. [[14.50]] Then he also said, András Fekete-Győr, that we therefore raise such statements, of course, in the spirit of freedom of speech, they can say in the House that we are raising them, that the government is increasing gas and electricity prices to multiples. He also chose the opposition attitude by saying his speech and then leaving. He did not want to see the other opposition representatives or the pro-government reaction, but, as I said earlier, of course, he has the right to do so. So what's the truth about what Momentum said? Firstly, according to Eurostat surveys, the cheapest ones are one of the cheapest or the cheapest ones in the world, in absolute terms and in proportion to income, depending on the comparison between gas and electricity prices that retail consumers have to pay. What really raises it... and then Rebecca Szabó also talked about the questions of sanctions, well, it's time to do it again, really, but I'm an eternal optimist, in case something goes through. What is wrong with sanctions, and why is it economically that sanctions do cause the supply and energy security energy crisis and a terrible rise in prices in Europe? And why were the Heads of State of the European Union also in the position at the beginning of the war not to be sanctioned in the energy sector? Well, that's because Europe's shooting itself in the leg. What's happening is that the vulnerable, weaker customer wants to regulate it, teach the dominant performer a lesson. We can't buy from anyone else, or much more expensive and much harder, and he's happy to sell to China and India the amount of energy that Europe is thanking you very much for not asking, and what he's suffering from is not buying it from Russia now. It's one of the dumbest things in the world. It's also a coincidence that Kissinger said they'd never won a war with a sanction. The European Union, as we say, has tricked and deceived European citizens three times so far. First they said there would be no energy sanctions, then there would be. Then they said that it would stop the Russians and put an end to the war, the war has since escalated; it is wider and more serious than it was before. And then they said that it wouldn't hurt, we know this about Hungary, it won't hurt, Europe won't get any worse, it turned out that Russia's energy export revenues are knocking down every peak, Russia doesn't have a sales problem with oil and gas, but Europe is forced to pay unprecedented prices and face budgetary, economic and social difficulties thanks to its stupid decision. Europe is self-destructive in this matter, weakening itself, breaking up energy trading relations with no other or much more expensive alternative sources of supply, and we have also talked a lot about the fact that switching from an exclusive or dominant monopoly source to another is not an end to addiction. It is in the interest of Europe, which Prime Minister has repeatedly made very clear: as many sources of energy as possible, including the Russian one, should be available to Europe. In this position, Prime Minister and the Hungarian Government are far from alone. Read the statement of the Prime Minister of Saxony, who is pro-nuclear and says that Russian gas must be bought again after the war. So, the energy issue is an important issue, so this Ministry, we think it will certainly help us to protect Hungary and the citizens of Hungary from difficulties. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-11-22-112	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Decisions will take place today after 16 hours. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm taking a break now, and we'll be back at work from 16:00. (Recess: 14.54-16.07) President: István Jakab Note: Dr. István Tiba and Dávid Dócs)
u2022-11-22-113	Dear Parliament, [[The members of the Dialogue Group are wearing a T-shirt with the words STOP]] We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. In today's decisions, we also decide to accept proposals requiring a qualified majority. I would like to draw your attention to the decision-making rules 50. § 3 if Parliament does not adopt a provision requiring a qualified majority in the final vote of the bill or a proposal for a resolution, this shall extend without further specific decision [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] leave a provision indicating In this case, the final vote by a simple majority shall take place on the text of the proposal thus amended. Before we begin the voting procedure, we will carry out a presence check to verify that the voting machines are operational. Please press one of the buttons of your voting machine. [[It's happening.]] Thank you. Once they've checked that their voting machine is working, we'll continue our work. Coming up in NATO peacekeeping operation in Kosovo [[KFOR]] Report on Hungarian military engagement [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] on the adoption of H/1827 Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/1827. A proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 183 votes to four, with no abstentions. The T/1615 Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of San Marino on the promotion and mutual protection of investments is hereby signed. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1615. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill with 188 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Next up is T/1835 on the publication of an amendment to the Statute of the International Organisation for Migration. Final vote of bill No 1. The rapporteur is Mr T/1835/1. Annex 1 to the Act, which contains an official translation into Hungarian of the amendment decision of the Statute, and the correction of the typography in the official Hungarian language translation, as well as the correction of the typography in Annex 2 which contains the authentic English text of the amending decision of the Statute, which is available on the network. Since no amendment has been proposed to summarise the proposal, we are now deciding on an adapted text of the proposed legislation. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1835. Act No. 1 along with the adjustment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the adjusted bill with 183 votes in favour, no votes against, with 5 abstentions. Next up is T/1778 on the significance of the 1222 Golden Bull and the Day of the Golden Bull. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1778. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill with 181 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It follows the decision on the amendment proposal submitted by the Legislative Committee and the final vote to the Act on the Publication of an Air Transport Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the State of Qatar, of the other part, which was sent back for consideration by the President of the Republic on 12 July 2022. Text of the Act sent to the President of the Republic for signature T/287/8. Letter from the President of the Republic No T/287/9. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. T/287/11. and T/287/12. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with the provisions of the House Rules, there is no possibility to maintain a proposal amending the decision and to request a separate vote. We are now deciding on an amendment to the Legislative Committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/287/11. Amendment No 3 of the European Parliament and of the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the amendment by 180 votes to one, with seven abstentions. [[16.10]] The final vote now follows, in which we decide on the text of the law which has not been announced, as amended by the amendment proposal of the Legislative Committee. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament to adopt the law on the announcement of an air transport agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the State of Qatar, of the other part, with the amendments which have just been adopted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament has adopted the amended law, which has not been published by 175 votes in favour, not without a vote, with 13 abstentions. Following up is the T/2033 on the Directorate-General for European Aid Audit and on the amendment of certain laws adopted at the request of the European Commission in order to ensure the effective completion of the conditioning procedure. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. I remind you that, according to our decision yesterday, the bill will be dealt with in an exceptional procedure by the Parliament. The Legislative Committee's proposal for a summary amendment T/2033/3. and a summary report by T/2033/4. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/2033/3. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 152 votes in favour, 19 votes against and 17 abstentions. The final vote now follows, in which we decide on the text of the bill as amended by the summarised amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/2033/4. The text of the proposed amendment, as amended by the summary amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the amended bill by 152 votes in favour, 14 votes against and 23 abstentions. Following the year 2022, the list of the ministries of Hungary was published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Act T/2099 amending Act T/2099 and certain related laws Final vote of bill No 1. I remind you that, according to our decision yesterday, the bill will be dealt with in an exceptional procedure by the Parliament. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/2099. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Parliament adopted the bill by 134 votes in favour, 50 votes against and 5 abstentions. It follows that T/1622 on the amendment of certain laws concerning the management of assets in order to increase the efficiency of the management of the State's assets. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. The Legislative Committee's proposal for a summary amendment T/1622/6. T/1622/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 3 of the Dialogue Group, the Group of the LMP Group proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Lóránt Keresztes. This includes Amendment 3. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 50 votes in favour, 134 votes against and 1 abstention. Amendment 3 was tabled by Rebekah Szabó. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 51 votes in favour, 137 votes against and 1 abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of point 17, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. [[16.20]] First, we decide on a point requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1622/6. Point 17 of the consolidated amendment proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 145 votes in favour, 43 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1622/6. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 143 votes in favour, 46 votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1622/10. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 142 votes in favour, 45 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1622/10. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 143 votes in favour, 45 votes against and no abstentions. The T/1620 on the amendment of certain laws for the security of Hungary follows. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/1620/13. T/1620/14. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, the MSZP Group proposed to maintain Amendment 5 and 6, the Group of Dialogue Group 4 and the Group of the LMP Group on Amendment 3. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 5 is proposed by Bertalan Tóth and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 50 votes in favour, 133 votes against and 6 abstentions. In Amendment 6, Bertalan Tóth and his fellow Members, in Amendment 4, Timea Szabó and Máté Kanász-Nagy and Péter Ungár presented proposals with the same content. The factions have initiated the continuation of all three motions, so we will decide on them with one decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament, he maintains the amendments. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Parliament did not maintain the amendments by 50 votes in favour, 132 votes against and 6 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the House Rule of Decision is 48. According to paragraph 2 of Section T/1620/13. A separate vote was initiated on points 60, 63, 79, 80, 84, 85, 88 and 89 of the draft amending proposal and on points 17 to 21 of the MSZP Group. First, we decide on the points requested for a separate vote and then on the part of the summarised amendment that requires a qualified majority. We will then decide on further points in the summary amendment proposal. We now decide on the adoption of points 60, 63, 79, 80, 84, 85, 88 and 89, which require a simple majority of votes. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1620/13. Point 60, 63, 79, 80, 84, 85, 88 and 89 requires a simple majority of amendments. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the points asked for a separate vote on the draft amendment by 134 votes in favour, 48 votes against and 5 abstentions. We are now deciding on the adoption of points 17 to 21 of the draft amendment, which require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1620/13. Point 17-21 of the proposed amendment, which requires a simple majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the points requested for a separate vote, with 169 votes in favour and no votes against, with 20 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 10, 43, 44 and 48 thereof, the decision will be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the points requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1620/13. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 134 votes in favour, 55 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1620/13. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment, which required a simple majority, by 134 votes in favour, 55 votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. [[The members of the Dialogue Group, who wear a T-shirt marked STOP. LEX MEGÖGLESZ, stand up.]] I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1620/19. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 134 votes in favour, 54 votes against and no abstentions. [[16.30]] We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1620/19. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 134 votes in favour, 53 votes against and no abstentions. [[The members of the dialogue faction will take their place.]] It follows from the operation of the territorial administration, the real estate register [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] and T/1617 amending certain laws relating to territorial development Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/1617/6. and the summary report by T/1617/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1617/6. A summary amendment was proposed. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 134 votes in favour, 15 votes against and 39 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1617/8. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 134 votes in favour, 14 votes against and 40 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1617/8. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 134 votes in favour, 14 votes against and 40 abstentions. The T/1791 on the elimination and management of the consequences of the armed conflict in the neighbouring country and of the humanitarian disaster in Hungary follows. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/1791/11. T/1791/12. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. According to paragraph 4 of Section 4, the DK Group proposed the continuation of amendments No 5 and the MSZP Group of amendments No 2, 3 and 4. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 5 is proposed by Gergely Arató and his fellow Members. This includes amendments 2, 3 and 4. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 51 votes in favour, 131 votes against and 6 abstentions. Amendment 2 is proposed by Bertalan Tóth and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 50 votes in favour, 132 votes against and 6 abstentions. Amendment 3 is proposed by Bertalan Tóth and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 50 votes in favour, 132 votes against and 6 abstentions. Amendment 4 is proposed by Bertalan Tóth and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 49 votes in favour, 133 votes against and 6 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of point 1 and point 5 of this Article, point 6 is replaced by the following: A qualified majority is required for the adoption of the part of Article 1 (1) and the decision is taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the parts requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1791/11. A qualified majority of the amendment proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the part of the summary amendment requiring a qualified majority by 136 votes in favour, 38 votes against and 14 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1791/11. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment, which required a simple majority, by 132 votes in favour, 42 votes against and 13 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1791/13. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 133 votes in favour, 40 votes against and 14 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1791/13. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 133 votes in favour, 41 votes against and 12 abstentions. Following is the T/1611 on the provisions relating to the successful implementation of Hungarian appearance at the 2025 Osaka World Exhibition. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/1611/8. and the summary report by T/1611/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the Jobbik Group proposed that amendments Nos 2, 3 and 4 be maintained. That's what we're gonna decide first. [[16.40]] Amendment 2 is proposed by Mr Péter Balassa. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 54 votes to 54, 124 votes to six. Amendment 3 is proposed by Mr Péter Balassa. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 49 votes in favour, 128 votes against and 6 abstentions. Amendment 4 is proposed by Mr Péter Balassa. I ask the Honourable Parliament, He's holding on to the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 47 votes in favour, 131 votes against and 6 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/1611/8. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 140 votes to 28, with 17 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1611-11. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 131 votes in favour, 28 votes against and 26 abstentions. T/1621 on the amendment of certain laws on the subject of justice follows. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/1621/4. T/1621/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/1621/4. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 131 votes to 14, with 40 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1621/6. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 131 votes in favour, 16 votes against and 38 abstentions. It follows that T/1609 on the amendment of the laws on the publication of international treaties on judicial cooperation Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/1609/4. T/1609/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/1609/4. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 170 votes to one, with 14 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1609/6. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 170 votes in favour, with 14 abstentions, without voting against. T/1614 on the amendment of certain tax laws follows. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/1614/10. T/1614/11. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of amendments Nos 3, 4 and 5. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Bertalan Tóth and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 126 votes against and 1 abstention. Amendment 4 is proposed by Bertalan Tóth and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 50 votes in favour, 127 votes against and 6 abstentions. Amendment 5 is proposed by Bertalan Tóth and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 43 votes in favour, 128 votes against and 11 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/1614/10. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 128 votes in favour, 32 votes against and 23 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1614/13. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 130 votes in favour, 32 votes against and 21 abstentions. Dear Parliament, In line with our agreed agenda, decisions are now being taken to accept the responses to the interpellations made yesterday. László Sebian-Petrovszki, representative of DK, I/1807. No response to interpellation was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 129 votes in favour, 53 votes against and two abstentions. Sándor Szabó, representative of MSZP, I/2034. No response to interpellation was accepted. I'll ask the National Assembly, you'll accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 128 votes in favour, 53 votes against and one abstention. [[16.50]] Endre Tóth, representative of Momentum, I/2038. No response to interpellation was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 128 votes in favour, 54 votes against and one abstention. Ander Balázs, representative of Jobbik, I/2041. No response to interpellation was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 128 votes in favour, 53 votes against and one abstention. Jámbor András Imre, representative of the Dialogue, I/2045. No response to interpellation was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 127 votes in favour, 53 votes against and one abstention. István Szabadi, representative of Mi Hazan, representative of I/2036. No response to interpellation was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 126 votes in favour, 22 votes against and 2 abstentions. Antal Csárdi, representative of LMP, I/2039. No response to interpellation was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 124 votes in favour, 54 votes against and one abstention. Gergely Arató, representative of DK, I/2026. No response to interpellation was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 128 votes in favour, 52 votes against and one abstention. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the decisions. Thank you for your cooperation. I'm ordering a two-minute break. (Sunning: 16.53-16.58) President: Dr. János Latorcai Note: Dr. István Tiba and Dávid Dócs)
u2022-11-22-114	Ladies and gentlemen, [[Noise.]] We are continuing our work, so I would like to ask my fellow Members, who are leaving the Chamber now in an urgent matter, to do so as quickly and as quietly as possible; I would also like to ask my fellow members who are pro-government members to do so. I ask my fellow Members to allow Minister Mihály Varga to keep his exposé and to follow it in peace and with care. Dear Parliament, CXXXIX of 2013 on the National Bank of Hungary follows the line. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/2030. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I now give the floor to Minister for Finance Mihály Varga, the author of the item on the agenda, who tells the expo from here on the platform. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2022-11-22-115	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Since 2010, the government has consistently expressed its position on the independence of the central bank, and it is not often necessary to amend the Act on the National Bank of Hungary. The current amendment is justified on the one hand by the fact that it has been a long time since the entry into force of the law and new challenges have arisen in the current crisis of war sanctions. The amendments aim to enable the central bank to carry out its tasks independently in the future, but more effectively, on the basis of clear regulation that could lead to effective functioning and reduction of administrative burdens for the central bank in the crisis. It is also important that the draft also translates a number of legislative developments in the EU into domestic practice. The present amendment proposal of the Act governing the operation of the Hungarian National Bank is based on several discussions with the Hungarian National Bank and the European Central Bank, which have been followed by social consultation. The technical and social transparency of the process is therefore guaranteed. Dear House, Eurostat Annex III Hungary's economic growth is still the fifth in the EU ranking despite the sanctions crisis in the light of its quarterly GDP figures. [[17.00]] This result has been achieved by failing to receive the funds due to Hungary from the recovery fund, while the negative effects of sanctions are increasing from day to day. We have results that will give us the strength we need to do what we need to do. Unfortunately, in the light of the events that have taken place so far, we must expect that the EU's sanctions policy will not change in the future. We must settle for permanent protection, avoid the negative effects of sanctions, and fight to reduce inflation, make it once again a single digit in the shortest possible time. As is known, both the government and the central bank have a role to play in breaking down inflation. In this context, it is also the responsibility of the government to increase the room for manoeuvre of the central bank and to facilitate its effective operation by means available. Almost ten years have passed since the adoption of the current Act on the National Bank of Hungary. During this period, both the operating environment and the market have changed a lot. The areas where, based on practical experience, certain provisions of the legislation need to be clarified or updated are naturally outlined. The changes that have thus become timely are made even more timely by the crisis in the Russian-Ukrainian conflict and sanctions. Extending the room for manoeuvre of the central bank and supporting its effective action against inflation are our fundamental interests which require clarification of the legislation. As is known, sanctions since the outbreak of the war in February have led to a number of world market prices for raw materials having reached historic peaks and are still at a high level. Inflation has risen to decades of peaks in most European countries. Monetary policy across Europe is facing the same dilemma: rising energy prices are causing economic outlooks to deteriorate and rising prices are above the central bank's target. In this difficult situation, it is of the utmost importance that central banks operate smoothly, with maximum financial independence and defend themselves against inflation. Accordingly, the planned amendments to the Act on the National Bank of Hungary ensure, on the one hand, the proper capital supply and financial independence of the MNB, making the budgetary implications of the operation of the MNB more predictable. On the other hand, during the critical economic period triggered by sanctions, the draft gives the budget more room for manoeuvre by requiring the budget to reimburse the difference in several instalments over a period of five years, not in one year, if the equity would fall below the level of subscribed capital. Thus, the budget will also have a greater opportunity to run the economy and protect families and businesses in difficulty. Some of the proposals, such as the rules on dividend payments and capital increases, are typically ownership competence, so the Ministry of Finance has jurisdiction. The majority of the measures are technical measures, which provide a legal basis for the current MNB exercise, or clarification measures. Thus, among other things, the amendment addresses the need to ensure the operation of the cash infrastructure. It also implements simplifications, clarifications and efficiency improvements in a number of sub-areas. This includes the provision of monetary and financial supervisory tasks. The procedures for the recovery of public market surveillance claims are discussed in the draft as well as statistical, macro-prudential, financial and oversight tasks. During the preparatory phase of the legislative amendment, the government agreed with a number of actors and incorporated a number of technical opinions in the amendments. In particular, I would like to highlight the European Central Bank in this regard, whose opinion was taken very closely into account by the government when preparing the proposal. The European Central Bank has expressed its agreement on the need for the proposals outlined, both in terms of central bank independence and in terms of capital adequacy issues. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to explain the proposal for amendments to the legislation of the MNB, which is therefore intended to increase efficiency and clarify and clarify the points of the law that raised previous questions. On the one hand, the proposed amendments seek to ensure the adequate capital supply and financial independence of the MNB. These two terms are the right capital adequacy and financial independence are well-known, important and expected and recognised features of the functioning of central banks worldwide. It is also important for the Parliament because adequate capital supply and financial independence make the budgetary implications of the operation of the MNB more predictable. The draft also gives the Hungarian budget more room for manoeuvre in the medium term. The proposal states that if the MNB's own capital were to fall below the level of the subscribed capital, the budget would then have to reimburse the difference, not in one amount and in one year, as provided for by the provisions in force, but in five years; within five calendar years, in uniform instalments per year, cumulative. In the current situation, this prudent regulatory proposal is particularly appreciated. The changed inflation and return environment, the spill-over effects of increasing geopolitical and security of supply risks on the financial market and the changing global monetary conditions have created a new situation. There is no question that the possibility of recapitalisation under the age of five could make progress in the planning of the budget against the burden of exposure to one-off shocks. It may increase the scope of economic policy while ensuring the financial independence of the central bank. Therefore, with the adoption of the draft, the budget will have to face one less unforeseen surprise. In its new world order of financial and budgetary shocks in recent years, this is of great value. When we are faced with crises such as the Crown Virus crisis, the Russian-Ukrainian war or the energy crisis and, of course, the harmful effects of sanctions, I stress that these shocks are still with us, we must estimate the elements that mitigate risk. Maintaining the stable capital position of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank in addition to improving the planning of the budget in the current situation, when the future also carries significant risks, would be a particularly great step forward. As a result of the amendment, the margin of the Hungarian central bank will be similar to that of regional competitors. In countries with similar monetary policy arrangements, such as the Czech Republic, Romania or Poland, there is no explicit rule similar to that of Hungarians regarding the deadline for financing capital. The adoption of the proposal is therefore also a question of competitiveness in this respect. The amendment of the MNB's rules on dividend payments is also an integral part of the package of proposals. As is known, there are currently no precise provisions for the planning of the budget for dividend payments, which are decided by the Board of Directors of the Central Bank on an individual basis. The aim is to make the system more rule-based and predictable. According to the new regulatory proposal, if the amount of equity at the end of the reference year exceeds the subscribed capital, the MNB will pay half its profits as dividends. [[17.10]] A dividend would be paid by the central bank on the basis of the board's decision of the positive amount of the surplus plus the other half of the profits. However, this option is limited, the dividend thus paid may not exceed the subscribed capital amount. Therefore, half of the profits are automatically paid to the owner State, guaranteeing a predictable cash flow to the budget. At the same time, the general business practice of paying dividends would apply to the central bank, which is typically the owner rather than the management. Of course, this is done by ensuring the financial independence of the central bank and ensuring that the MNB's adequate capital supply remains guaranteed at all times and that half of the dividend is provided for by the Board of Directors. Overall, the rule-based mechanism set out in the bill creates a healthy balance by settling the dividend issue. Dear House, In addition to the above, the proposal contains other, also positive and substantial amendments. These are partly aimed at clarifying, clarifying and, in some cases, supplementing the legislative elements. Accordingly, in many cases the monetary and financial supervisory functions are clarified. Thus, inter alia, the procedures for the recovery of public market surveillance claims, as well as statistical, macro-prudential, money issue and payment system oversight tasks, will be clarified by the proposals and, as a result, their effectiveness will be enhanced. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going into the details of the legislative amendments more than necessary, but I think it is important that I address a few areas in a few words. The proposals in the field of the MNB's official procedures are aimed at clarifying the tasks of the authorities. In addition to exercising the macro-prudential function of the central bank, the MNB Act also establishes additional powers of authority. Thus, it acts as an authority to authorise and control the production and production of imitations of the Hungarian legal tender in circulation and of banknotes and coins which can be converted into legal tender by the MNB. In addition, the MNB also acts as an authority when verifying the retention of the provisions of the regulation issued in its statistical function. It is therefore appropriate, by analogy, to authorise the President of the MNB to lay down certain rules on the exercise of powers in the MNB Regulation in the case of those official procedures. It is therefore important to establish by law the appropriate powers necessary for the effective performance of tasks. The definition of the holder of the authority requires a more precise distinction between the tasks of the MNB's oversight and supervision functions than is currently the case. Dear House, The application of the rules of substitution in the exercise of powers in the field of official powers in the event of exclusion arises as a problematic area. In the practice of the MNB, it is not clear at present that, although the case of exclusion in the exercise of powers is in fact a matter of obstruction, the rules laid down for substitution in the exercise of powers may apply to the handling of these cases. In view of addressing this issue, clarification of the Central Bank Act has become necessary. Dear House, Further simplifications have also become timely. In the investment management sector, the MNB Act sets a three-year cycle period for comprehensive investigations. However, in line with the risk-based supervision set out in the Hungarian National Bank's supervisory strategy, it would be useful to differentiate the overall investigation cycle times based on a risk-based approach. This is important because the supervised management sector can be divided into two main categories from a prudential and consumer protection point of view. The first is a group of fund managers with public funds available to small investors. The second is the group of investment fund managers that manage only private funds with only narrow, often professional investors of the same interest. In view of the low risk for the latter, the five-year cycle is also appropriate instead of the three-year cycle. In addition, companies managing public funds with a small investor client base would remain under closer supervision due to investor and consumer protection considerations. The proposal would not affect the holding of a first-year comprehensive study following the start-up of the activity. Therefore, this measure is of a burden-reducing and rational nature, while also investing confidence in companies with professional customers, recognises their low risk. In addition, it is necessary to clarify the tasks of the Hungarian National Bank's money laundering supervision, as defined by law. Due to the nature of the task, the central bank is currently unable to open a group inquiry against the institutions supervised in this round. At the same time, it is necessary, in practice, for group-level policies, procedures and measures to be monitored, to apply group-level investigations beyond the current framework. There is also the proposal, replacing this deficiency. Clarification of the activities listed in the MNB Act has also become timely. Companies carrying out illegal deposit collection or other repayable funds in the absence of a credit institution authorisation shall be examined and sanctioned by the MNB in accordance with the market surveillance procedure. The deficiency is due to the fact that the clause on the activities to be sanctioned does not apply in the market surveillance procedure. It is therefore appropriate to revise the scope of this provision. This is what we are proposing; separate sections will also provide for the maximum fines that can be imposed. Dear fellow Members, The central bank also carries out market surveillance tasks to protect the interests of citizens. It also contains a number of practical measures for these procedures. Thus, the MNB's role as a market cleaner would be more effective if surveillance could be applied to market surveillance notifications as part of the MNB's ongoing surveillance activities, i.e. it would not always be necessary to carry out a market surveillance procedure. In addition, it is appropriate to extend the deadline for certain market surveillance procedures due to the expected rising number of cases and the complexity of the procedures. At present, the time limit for the market surveillance procedure in the context of short selling rules and credit default swaps is shorter than the time limit for other market surveillance procedures. This distinction is clearly not justified and it is therefore also proposed to standardise time limits. The legislative amendment is also necessary because the current legislative options are extremely limited in order to investigate notifications related to short selling. The proposed solution is consistent with the general principles of bureaucracy reduction and serves the interests of both customers and public authorities by reason of its simplicity, transparency, speed and efficiency. To sum up, the proposal therefore ensures that the procedures are carried out in an appropriate manner and in a quality, and not without control. The effective closure of these official procedures would greatly facilitate the extension of the legal deadline for the procedure. It is clear that the current 90-day deadline for drawing up and taking a substantive decision to close the procedure is limited. The current deadline is not in line with the reasonable time required for the completion of the administrative procedure and the possible exceedance of the above deadline poses a reputational risk to the MNB. It is a fact and to be positively assessed that so far the number of infringement proceedings launched is low. It is also particularly beneficial that no infringement decision has been taken. [[17.20]] Dear House, It would help the Hungarian National Bank to perform its market cleaning role more effectively if supervision could be applied to market surveillance notifications as part of the MNB's ongoing supervision activities, i.e. it would not always be necessary to carry out market surveillance procedures. On the basis of the legal provisions in force, supervision is not prohibited as part of the MNB's market surveillance activities, but there is a lack of clarification and extension of the warranty request for approval, given the need to guarantee customer rights in the case of market surveillance inspections by linking data to public prosecutor's approval. The legislative amendment is also necessary because the current legislative options for investigating market surveillance notifications are extremely limited. In addition, the deadline for notifying notifiers needs to be amended, which is also proposed in the proposal. The MNB shall examine the notification within 15 days of receipt of the notification, which is short given the current situation. The purpose of the amendment is to ensure that the deadline applied to the MNB in the law on complaints and announcements of general interest applies to the assessment obligations and should therefore be assessed within 30 days. Dear House, The government also proposed fines, procedural costs and recovery of supervisory fee claims. The amendment proposal aims to ensure that the supervisory fee not paid to the MNB, the fine imposed and not paid as laid down by law, as well as the procedural cost established and the associated late payment bonus, can be handed over to the tax authority for recovery with the same condition that the MNB has the power of decision in respect of the assessment of the payment relief applications submitted. Dear House, As is known, the tasks of the central bank are also critically important in international terms. The draft will also make proposals for amendments here, while respecting the general EU data protection standards. In the light of the above, it is therefore necessary for the central bank to operate in a smooth manner and to carry out its tasks, to include in the law governing the functioning of the central bank a provision expressly authorising the bank to collect and receive personal data directly. As the MNB Act does not specify in particular the type of data that the bank may receive by providing or receiving data, it is therefore appropriate to clarify that the MNB is also entitled to collect personal data in a specific context. The amendment therefore seeks to provide for the possibility of collecting and receiving data that are considered personal data under the General Data Protection Regulation or, more commonly known as GDPR, by the MNB, taking into account that the GDPR allows the collection of such personal data only if it is expressly authorised by the law. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to what has already been said, macro-prudential tasks to improve the stability of the financial sector are also an important part of the presentation. In these cases, the MNB's debt-brake-like assets would be expanded by introducing income-related debt limits. Although the MNB's debt brake rules applied since 2015 have substantially strengthened the quality of the bank loan portfolios, supporting sound lending and minimising credit losses during the crisis in recent years, taking into account international experience and domestic market developments, it is justified to extend MNB's debt brake instruments with the introduction of income-related debt limits. In international practice, two of the three instruments are typically used at the same time. With the Hungarian proposal, Hungary would raise its lending rules to an even more secure level, leading to strict macro-prudential supervision and risk avoidance, while also protecting borrower families from the dangers of over-indebtedness. These are therefore important preventive measures to protect households from debt and, on the other hand, to ensure stability in the financial sector. Dear House, The MNB is also present in an important segment of our daily lives, it also carries out banknote and coin issuance tasks, and accordingly this function is also affected by the presentation. We expect to stop the problematic and dubious processes and consequences of the clarification provisions, which, I say once again, are linked to the direct task of the MNB. I'm not going to go into more detail here: the issue of commemorative coins, the handling of banknotes and other assets will be covered. Dear House, Another important issue is the relationship of the central bank with auditors. On the one hand, the proposal raises the need for a single description of the rules on data managed by the staff of the central bank in order to ensure the thematic management of the rules on confidentiality. This part of the proposal therefore results in simplification and increased transparency. On the other hand, the proposal would allow the audit public oversight authority, the auditor of the financial institution and the Hungarian Chamber of Auditors to disclose secrets under the MNB Act. The auditor of the financial institution shall have a protection function, whose effectiveness may be enhanced by the possibility of sharing data by the MNB, by describing the facts and processes that are relevant for carrying out the audit. Dear Parliament, To sum up, the amendment of the Act on the National Bank of Hungary clearly means fine-tunings, more precise frameworks and a clear interpretation of the regulation. The amendment provides an opportunity for the central bank to continue to function effectively and independently in order to achieve the objectives of monetary policy. The amendment of the Central Bank Act also increases the stability and room for manoeuvre of the budget, which is particularly important in the current crisis period. With this proposal, the Government will promote closer alignment of fiscal and monetary policy decision-making. Dear House, In view of what has been said, I would also ask you to support and accept the bill amending the Act on the National Bank of Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-22-116	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Sándor F. Kovács. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-11-22-117	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, T/2030 on the table in this House. CXXXIX of 2013 on the National Bank of Hungary. The purpose of the bill amending Law No 1 is to ensure the necessary legal conditions for the fulfilment of the tasks of the monetary authority, to ensure that the central bank is adequately capitalised, which also reduces budgetary risks and sets out rules on dividend payments. The central bank law, which lays down the tasks of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank, is the primary objective and mission of the Hungarian National Bank to achieve and maintain price stability. In practice, this is done within the framework of a well-established and widely used monetary policy that is recognised at international level. [[17 .30]] The further mandate of the Hungarian National Bank is to support the government's economic policy by the available monetary policy instruments without compromising its primary objective. By saying this, however, the 2013 Central Bank Act was rather innovative, and only a few recognised the importance of this item at the time. Since then, the involvement of central banks in the public interest and in the interests of the economy has been successfully implemented by many EU and other developed economies. The National Bank belongs to the nation, so monetary policy can be expected to be designed with a view to the common good. Not only did the Central Bank Act adopted in 2013 prove to be a pioneer, but the National Bank itself has also proved to be a pioneer: in the past ten years, the Hungarian National Bank has introduced a number of innovative instruments, launched a programme and significantly increased domestic gold reserves. This was a very important and forward-looking step in today's difficult global economy, not selling and selling the nation's wealth, but increasing and expanding it. Dear House, Dear Minister, As a result of monetary policy, the tasks of the Hungarian National Bank include, on the one hand, the issue of our legal tender, i.e. the issue of forints and coins, and the provision of its circulation in the payment system. This system includes the production, transport, storage, maintenance of banknotes and coins, the organisation and operation of cash logistics and the elimination of damaged or possibly counterfeit money. On the other hand, the management of the country's official foreign exchange and gold reserves and the execution of foreign exchange operations in relation to exchange rate policy and management of foreign reserves. Thirdly, the establishment and supervision of domestic payment and settlement systems and securities settlement systems in order to ensure the smooth conduct of cash flows, as well as the regulation of cash flows and the supervision of the stability of the financial system. Fourthly, the collection and provision of statistical data to the public, the European Union and the European Central Bank; the provision of credible data as usual, because there have been examples in previous cycles that this has not always happened. Finally, the management of the central bank's accounts to banks and credit institutions, as well as the provision of loans and the acceptance of deposits from the same financial institutions. The fundamental common interest of the Hungarian society, economy, government and the Hungarian National Bank and its joint responsibility with other public institutions are to maintain and strengthen the stability of the domestic financial system. Dear Parliament, The aim of the bill is to modernise, modernise, modernise and adapt the experience of the financial and economic turbulences that have taken place since then into the domestic monetary policy framework, which is modern, even innovative, but is now almost ten years old. The aim of the amendment is to ensure the necessary legal conditions for the fulfilment of the monetary authority's tasks, to modernise its own debt limits and to replace them with income-related debt limits, to ensure the adequate capital adequacy of the central bank, which also reduces budgetary risks, and to lay down the rules on dividend payments by law. The challenges of recent years, such as the crisis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, the disruptions of international supply chains, the spill-over turbulence caused by the Russian-Ukrainian war, rising raw materials and energy prices, the resulting increase in returns, the inflation environment, have significantly transformed financial and monetary conditions worldwide. In the spirit of adapting to the new situation, the adaptation of domestic regulations has also been justified. With this in mind, the proposals for amending the Central Bank Act have been drawn up, analysed and considered, taking a thorough account of the lessons learned in recent decades and future prospects. The new regulation makes the operational processes of the Hungarian National Bank even more efficient and more predictable, as well as the budgetary aspects of the functioning of the central bank. For example, the linking of debt brake rules to income means modernisation, which, while safeguarding financial stability, allows for a more life-threatening but still secure lending practice and can also be expected to have a positive impact on economic performance and on domestic lending. The regulation of central bank capital indicators and the fixing of the allocation of results are significant steps in terms of both the operation of the Hungarian National Bank and the security, predictability and transparency of the Hungarian budget and financial processes. Dear House, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, In conclusion, the bill before us contains provisions to support, and I therefore ask my fellow Members to vote and support this bill, like the Fidesz fraction. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-11-22-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr László Varju. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-11-22-119	[[His mic's not working.]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, My expo and my fellow Member's keynote speech... [[Nacsa Lőrinc: We don't care that we don't hear it!]] Yeah, but I'm fine, I have a card, I have a green light.
u2022-11-22-120	Reset the clock, please.
u2022-11-22-121	[[It's a portable microphone.]] Thank you very much. Maybe this will make it easier. Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, After the expo and the keynote sentences, I think it will be worth mixing some topicalities, and I will have the opportunity to do so. As a first thought, I have to say that, like other central banks, the core primary task of the Hungarian National Bank is to conduct monetary policy, maintain price stability, maintain stability of the financial system. If we look at price stability, we can safely say that the Hungarian National Bank could not fulfil this task. There are a number of reasons for this, and today the Vice-President of the Hungarian National Bank has also said, in a press discussion, about the risks to be faced, but let's talk about this later. Of course, it is also a topical issue that, in its current operation, the bank has developed a situation where, in the context of maintaining the 13 per cent base rate and claiming it, it can only be regarded as an existing interest rate on paper compared to the 18 per cent interest rate. It is not good that the problems caused by the government are being addressed by another anti-market decision, which has a very bad message again. This also applies to the drawing of the 20 million HUF border. The correct answer would be that the government regains its credibility, reliability in the eyes of market participants, then the quasi-core interest rate should not be kept at 18%. Therefore, I think that, following today's decision, the most important issue may be how long the central bank will last and when it plans to return to the key base rate, as well as the recent outlook on the money market for inflation can be really interesting. [[17.40]] But if we assume from what the bank's operation means, then the change in the external environment, the war, the European energy crisis, the tightening-up cycle of central banks, or what is, by the way, the result of your activities, that the current balance of payments has created a terrible situation, under these circumstances, to talk about whether they want to adopt more precise frameworks and clear rules by submitting the law, this is a bit excessive expectation from the Minister, I think. Just because you created the situation that gave the Hungarian National Bank the opportunity to save money from the foundations, or the decision to change the regulations of ten years ago, instead of paying the mandatory profits, the Hungarian National Bank left it in its own jurisdiction, and on this basis, let us say that hundreds of billions of HUF have been converted. This is how the situation that my fellow Member, Mr Sándor F. Kovács, tried to talk about was that it was the central bank's job to support Hungarian economic policy. But the consequences of this are clearly seen, instead of defining and maintaining independence, what conditions have you managed to create. At the same time, what appears in the bill is that its declared objective is to ensure the necessary legal conditions for the monetary authority to fulfil its tasks, to ensure that the central bank is properly capitalised and to emphasise this, even if it is a substantive objective. However, in addition to the substantive changes presented below, the proposal only makes a series of technical clarifications, rather than making a meaningful change. The profits of the central bank that it has to pay 50% of the budget are, I would say, a return to what has already been done in the previous rules, but this only applies to the 50 percent. At the same time, in the event of a large loss of the central bank, they try to spread the burden of the budget, and the Hungarian National Bank can introduce a new debt brake on the loans of private individuals. And the Minister forgot to report on the increase in the salary of the central bank and other senior officials, although this will apply not only to the President of the Central Bank, but also to many others. According to the proposal, if, by the end of the reference year, the capital of the Hungarian National Bank exceeds its subscribed capital, 50 percent of the profits must be paid as dividends to the State. In essence, this means that the capital position of the central bank is in order, while the central bank is in any event detracting from the central budget half of the profits. If, by the end of the reference year, the amount of the capital of the Hungarian National Bank falls below the subscribed capital, the difference shall be paid to the central bank in equal instalments within five years. Compared to the current legislation, this will make it easier for the State. This can also be seen as clearly the government is preparing with this amendment to spread the expected great losses of the Hungarian National Bank in the midst of inflation in a high interest rate environment, and this is what it is preparing for this year as well. At present, for credit and money loans to private individuals, the President of the Central Bank may determine the highest level of the share of the capital in proportion to income. In addition, the President of the MNB may limit the maximum amount of credit for real estate and car loans and financial and leasing transactions in relation to real estate and motor vehicle values. Under the new rules proposed now, you can introduce a limit of 25 per cent of net income for variable interest rate mortgages, up to 35 per cent for a five-year interest period and at least 10 per cent for a fixed interest rate period, up to 50 per cent of net income. Overall, however, I have to say that with the loss of hundreds of billions, the central bank budget that closes the year will no longer be spared from helping the State itself immediately. [[Sic!]] This includes a further unacceptable change in the fact that the State will have to make up for the loss of the central bank in the future in five years rather than eight days; this is in direct contradiction with EU legislation, Minister. By the way, again and again from 2023, I think it is worth talking about the rules in which Member States cannot have a greater budget deficit than 3 percent of GDP. At the same time, there is a 3.5 percent deficit in the budget adopted by Parliament in the summer, but this appropriation will also result in a loss of hundreds of billions of forints, which will be incurred by the Hungarian National Bank, which will have to be compensated by the State. I understand that this must be prepared in advance, but if I miscalculate, then, Minister, please adjust. How much loss will the Hungarian National Bank expect this year? So the budget of 2023 and the losses resolution of the Hungarian National Bank, which has now been extended, are directly contrary to EU rules. But let's see what György Matolcsy's rampage has shown us in recent years. The Hungarian National Bank instead of 2014 in 2014 [[Sic!]] the previously mentioned foundations were set up numerically six foundations with different objectives, but all of them sounded very good. They've been joined together ever since, so they don't have to use names anymore. Foundations received money for certain purposes that they had to invest, and then they were able to officially spend their returns on things that the goals required. Basically, the model is certainly not a bad idea for you, but, you know, it has been turned around in the usual way, and this money has practically been stolen, while the necessary decision has been taken to eliminate its public money character, a court decision has been taken, and therefore the steps you have taken or have left behind have indeed led to this. The foundations spent quite an amazing amount of money: 17 million HUF carpets were knotted, György Matolcsy's nephew's company bought all kinds of meaningless reports for HUF 4.5 million a month for years, spent more than HUF 8 billion on villas, supported one of Fidesz's relations with millions, and supported the support of a book that could otherwise be linked to Zsolt Bayer. All of this, by the way, is dwarfed by real estate, as the central bank has organised nearly HUF 250 billion through the foundations. These were almost without exception sold to stromans and related banks, and they also bought luxury estates, and the foundations supported Fidesz tellers, bought for 10 million, as I mentioned, carpets. The foundations were a laughing stock when in 2017 they were proud to report that out of 112 they were not punished for 66 contracts. Because. At that time they had to pay a fine of roughly HUF 86 million for irregularities. And then let's be proud that György Matolcsy's son was included in the 100 billion-dollar club. This would indeed be a commendable achievement if it did not mean that one million forints were stolen from one hundred thousand people per person; this could have meant a one million forints pension increase for all those who had a pension below 50 thousand forints per year. Besides excessive theft, the other major problem is the operation and activity of the Hungarian National Bank, which resulted in a number of criticisms from experts. [[17.50]] There is no justification for the EUR 400 exchange rate. This has destroyed the country, and it will be very difficult to get back on its feet, because this is the result of conscious currency abuse. What the outside environment has helped or made worse, by the way, will only put you in a worse position in this regard. There are three perpetrators of this extraordinary economic situation: György Matolcsy, Viktor Orbán and Minister for Finance Mihály Varga. You are those who, as a result of your rampage, do not trust the forint, the stability of the forint and the credibility of the fight against inflation. Every time György Matolcsy spoke as the head of the Hungarian National Bank or Minister Márton Nagy has been on the line since then, the forint has always reacted with a fall in exchange rates. According to the former central bank price, it is also insufficient to combat inflation, which the central bank could prove with its hesitant interest policy, the lack of foreign reserves. When the regional currencies began to weaken at the beginning of the Ukrainian war, both the Czech and Polish central banks strongly intervened in the protection of the Crown and the Złoty. But the bank analyst also recalls in a published analysis that the current 400 HUF of the 360 HUF euro before the war is only one effect of what comes from the war, 10 HUF, which we can safely link to their debate against the European Union, and otherwise 20 HUF is linked to the quality of domestic vulnerability and economic policy. On this basis, I can safely say that their proposal in this form is not eligible and unacceptable. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the opposition.]]
u2022-11-22-122	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-11-22-123	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Congressman Varju said how the Hungarian economy is going down, which is why the IMF, the European Commission and the OECD have improved this year's forecast for the growth of the Hungarian economy in the last two weeks. The IMF, your great friend, the European Commission and the OECD have also improved the forecast of the Hungarian economy, the growth forecast of the Hungarian economy for this year. Today, the OECD has raised it from 4 percent to 6 percent, we are a month and a half from the end of the year, today the OECD has increased its economic forecast. This economic growth, which Mr Varju has told us about, has been destroyed during the period of 6 percent such crisis, energy crisis, inflation crisis and war. Congressman Varju was a Member of Parliament during the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments, and he was also the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Economy, my fellow Members, so he would have been very competent to raise his voice against the bad central bank policy at that time, because I looked at it, my fellow Members, there was also a debate about the activities of the central bank every year, because it is a parliamentary obligation that the central bank's report is being discussed and accepted by Parliament. Congressman Varju, imagine that he never once stood up and said that the central bank policy that the central bank was pursuing at that time would be wrong and would object to it. The honourable Member was also a Member of Parliament and Minister of State of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. [[László Varju: But why should I?]] If we look at the state of the global crisis in 2008-2009, before that, in 2006-2007 economists, like Professor Mellar, called it the years of wealth, the years 2005, 2006, 2007 as the world's major countries of the European Union and the world were constantly growing; the economy was constantly expanding. Well, what happened then in Hungary? In 2006, in the year of abundance, Hungary had the second worst data in the world, with a deficit of 9.2 percent, and only in war-torn Lebanon had a higher government deficit than in Hungary. So the second worst public deficit figure in the world has been brought together by the László Varjus, my honourable fellow Member. Just so we understand, when he talks about a ruined economy, what kind of foundation he's talking about. I also looked for statements by Ferenc David from a time when he was not yet a shadow minister, but he was still in important positions to criticize economic policy and central bank policy at that time, but unfortunately I couldn't find one, even though the Internet wouldn't have forgotten if it had been. Right, in 2008, when the crisis blows up, right? [[Zoltán Vajda: Isn't it 2022?]] the tax reductions promised were abolished and immediately started with austerity. And then what did the President of the Central Bank, appointed by you, do? Besides the left-wing government, the then irresponsible central bank and András Simor also made a major contribution to the crisis's release and severe development, you remember foreign exchange loans, in 2009 you had 1.1 million foreign currency loans in Hungary, and over 70 percent of foreign exchange loans in the total retail loan portfolio. Thanks to the activities of the central bank at the time, foreign exchange loans repelling families into debt slavery were also released in Hungary. That was your central bank policy. Public debt became strangled by 2010 and has a very negative composition, as the financing composition of government debt of more than 80% increased the foreign exchange ratio to 53 per cent and the share of foreign-managed financing increased to 65 per cent. This has led to a radical increase in the country's foreign currency exposure and external vulnerability. Ladies and gentlemen, Your central bank policy was that the country is being sold abroad, and Hungarian families and Hungarian businesses are being reduced, and even in the years of wealth they can bring together a deficit of 9.2 percent. Let's not talk about offshore scandals. The fact that András Simor missed 800 million forints from a fortune statement is like someone forgets a thousand in their pockets. He was László Varju's great friend, his favourite and appointed, President of the Central Bank of Ferenc Gyurcsány.
u2022-11-22-124	Congressman, that doesn't include who's friend. [[Zoltán Vajda applauds.]]
u2022-11-22-125	On the other hand, my fellow Members, in 2013 the Hungarian National Bank had a major turn in its life, since the mandate of your offshore knight, András Simor, was completed in 2013 and from 2013 a responsible central bank management, which supported and supported fiscal policy, was implemented. Over the past period, since 2020, we have been experiencing a series of crises worldwide, first due to the health care and economic crisis caused by Covid, and then the lack of supply due to the re-launch, then the war due to Russian aggression, and then the failed sanctions for the war, which is even more difficult this year's extremely droughtd spring and summer periods. In this situation, not only unexpected, unprecedented new challenges for government economic policy, but also the central bank must operate in a turbulent economic and financial situation. The 2013 Central Bank Act was, in its time, a modern, innovative law that served the interests of the country. At the same time, it is important that the 2013 Act be amended in the current high, highly uncertain and constantly changing economic and financial situation, since the experience of the recent financial and economic turbulences will guide the amendment of the current law. After all, the purpose of this amendment is to ensure the necessary legal conditions for the fulfilment of the monetary authority's tasks, to modernise debt limits and to replace them with income-related debt limits, to ensure the adequate capital adequacy of the central bank, which also reduces budgetary risks, and to lay down the rules on dividend payments by law. The new regulation will make the MNB's operational processes even more efficient, more predictable and the budgetary aspects of the functioning of the central bank. Do you remember, fellow Members, how, during the Covid crisis, the central bank fought for the benefit of the economy and how, at that time, the central bank helped to restart the economy, as the MNB provided HUF 9311 billion of liquidity to economic operators by the end of May 2021, and the MNB supported the budget by paying dividends of HUF 500 billion during the Covid period. Also as part of the economic growth-enhancing phase, on 20 April 2020, just one month after the significant outbreak or national outbreak of the coronal virus, the MNB launched the newest construction of the growth credit programme, the Growth Credit Programme Hajra, with a budget of HUF 1500 billion. [[18.00]] Due to the considerable interest experienced since the start of the construction, the NHP Go! The MNB increased its budget in several steps to HUF 3000 billion. The increased budget already used more than HUF 2800 billion to operate, modernise and grow some 40,000 small and medium-sized enterprises. It is very important that many of these loans have been able to modernise, switch technology, grow and build new plants, not only to work. On the proposal of the MNB, the government then introduced the moratorium, leaving nearly HUF 1600-1700 billion in 2020 and HUF 700-800 billion in households and companies until June 2021. Remember, this was the credit moratorium that you didn't support. 91 percent of the card payments were made in contact, without physical contact, when the MNB increased the PIN code limit in the middle of the Covid crisis so that we would not pay with touch, not pay with cash, but reduce the touch frequency in this way. The MNB also achieved a unique success in achieving the inflation target, with only four months prior to the current war, energy crisis and sanctions period between 2017 and 2020, when inflation exited its 3-percent plus-minus 1 percentage point tolerance band. In 2020, corporate credit grew dynamically by 9.4 percent annually, while the household loan portfolio achieved a 14.5 percent annual growth rate, which was an outstanding achievement throughout the European Union. Since the launch of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank's sovereign debt purchase programme in May 2020, it has purchased sovereign debt worth more than HUF 2200 billion, thereby contributing to the stability of the sovereign debt market. The MNB's sovereign debt purchase programme increased the fiscal margin of the State by reducing returns, which could be used by the government to control the coronal virus epidemic. In the region, the central bank has taken the largest financial resource creation role in crisis management during the Covid period by bringing here the central banks of the region, the Visegrad countries, by increasing its balance sheet total by 23 percent of GDP. In proportion to GDP, the Polish central bank increased its balance sheet total by 22.7, Croatian 14.2, Czech 3.6 and Romanian central banks by 1.5 percent, while in Hungary it was 23 percent. In the summer of 2020, the central bank reduced the base rate twice by a total of 30 basis points. Since then, we know that in the current sanctioned inflation environment, the basic interest rate had to be constantly increased in order to break down sanctioned inflation. The monetary work at the Hungarian National Bank is the work that this law would like to do to improve, the work that the Minister has just said: there are red tape reduction, simplification, steps to strengthen security and transparency in this law. Once again, if you do not support it, this law will reduce bureaucracy, increase transparency and lead to more efficient central bank operations. If you do not want a more transparent, less bureaucratic and more stable central bank, then do not vote for this law. We're going to vote for it because we think that's what we need. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-22-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Zoltán Vajda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-11-22-127	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Colleagues, It is not easy for me to speak here in Parliament after such a stand-up. It might be a bit unusual for you, because I'm going to talk about the law, and I'm not going to give you a historical overview of the past 20 years. I was looking at the clock, Mr. Nacsa, that he couldn't do it for just a minute without a candle. That's your personal record, I think. Congratulations on that, but I think that if it's about a bill [[Robert Szigó: You didn't last a minute! The president's ringing the bell.]] Thank you, Mr President, if we are talking about a draft law, it is worth talking about the law, so I will try this, in case you learn it from me from time to time. First of all, what I would like to say in the beginning is that it is commendable that we are amending a central bank law every ten years. I mean, this is important for stability in the case of a central bank law, as the Minister said in his introduction, and I can fully join this. So the fact that we rarely touch a central bank law is right, and let's just say, a tenner like this, so I think it's right in itself. I also think it is right, by the way, and I will point out a few things from this, that many technical things are being modified by the Central Bank Act. It seems quite obvious to me that at least such a zero version of the proposal was made within the Bank of Hungary, because it is quite clear to me that procedural rules are being amended, which, according to practice, was perceived by the organisation concerned, as unnecessary or difficult to interpret, or as unreasonable, and that is why it was proposed to modify a number of technical things. I'd tell you these things quickly, but then at the end, I'm asking you to listen, because I'm telling you what a very important amendment is. I know it's not a salad law in a technical sense, because it's about one thing, but I understand it is because there's a very system-alien thing in this bill that I've noticed for some reason that the minister who's not in the room right now is just a subordinate here somehow forgot to highlight in his exposé. I think it's gonna be important to talk about this in the end. However, let's look quickly at the rules on official duties and dividend payments that are being amended by the amendment of the law. It was said that the President of the MNB should be authorised to designate a person with management authority under the MNB's terms of reference or to designate the MNB's body to take a decision on the subject in connection with the authorisation and control of the legal tender in circulation and the reproduction of banknotes and coins which can be converted into legal tender by the MNB. Similarly, payment with the commemorative coin interferes with the circulation of cash according to the MNB, and this amendment does not affect the legal tender character of commemorative coins, since the parties may continue to accept this as payment in the event of mutual agreement, and the MNB shall exchange them at any time, free of charge, for a circulation note or coin. It was also mentioned in the introduction, but I will say briefly that this amendment provides for the possibility of collecting and receiving personal data that are considered personal data under the GDPR, which are necessary for the assessment of creditworthiness, for the detection of credit risk, in relation to underlying assets, and in relation to deposits placed at the credit institution, Treasury, except for the data that are suitable for direct identification. The amendment also states that the President of the MNB will receive new ones in addition to previous debt-brake restrictions, not only the income-related instalment but also the maximum amount of debt itself. Another proposal of a professional nature is also mentioned in the amendment on how the domestic cash infrastructure network is developed, and a new authority will be established here. Let me highlight a few more of these, apparently professional proposals made within the MNB. With the amendment, the supervisory fee, the fine and the procedural cost will also be recovered and handed over under the General Administrative Rules Act by the MNB. There is a question of how the employees of the MNB can participate in board meetings and general meetings of the supervised bodies in the possession of a mandate letter. It is about how the fines that the MNB can impose have been re-established. There are also proposals for supervision. They provide greater flexibility for the financial conciliation body, and I could add a few technical or professional proposals, in which there are many that I consider to be supported otherwise. But there is one more amendment in this, which, for some reason, I say once again, that the Minister, which I have often admired professionally, has somehow left out of his introduction, but let us take a look at this. The MNB president's salary increase is involved in this. A few years ago, the MNB president's salary was raised from 3 million to 5 million. Then György Matolcsy gave a beautiful answer to the criticisms by saying that performance should be well paid for by his infinite modesty, and he also said that the Parliament was not a pub where he would place orders, especially in terms of his salary, he said this then anyway. As a result of the proposal in the current draft law, as the gross average earnings in 2022 are expected to exceed half a million forints, the MNB President will surely receive a monthly salary of over HUF 6 million next year. [[18.10]] Thus, it seems that this gross income of HUF 5 million, in which I am signaling very quietly or not so quietly, let us say, that the proceeds from the MNB foundations are not yet in it, so Matolcsy will soon expect a peak value of 25 per cent either from the government or from the MNB on today's information. Based on all this, there is no room for a decision to raise the salary. If there is any achievement to steal this word from Matolcsy, which is the case of the 3 percent rate of loss of money, in this law it would be the basic task of the MNB, well, then it might be possible to go to the National Assembly and ask for a raise. So, let's see what the MNB has done in their own duties, because this is the law. Here, the central bank's primary task would be to achieve and maintain price stability. Moreover, it is also for the National Bank, among other things, to support the government's economic policy by the means available without compromising the achievement of the objective of price stability. Well, in these tasks, the MNB bled to death. You didn't do it or you did it wrong. Let's look at inflation and a sentence now. On an annual basis, the latest figures we know are 21.9 percent inflation in October. This is the third highest in the European Union. In one year, inflation rose from 5 percent to 21.9 percent. But if you look at food alone, the price increase is even more brutal, rising from 4 percent to 45 percent. Within food, let's say, the price of bread has increased to the greatest extent, with an increase of 83 percent, which is more than double what is measured in other EU countries. In addition, there is the government's overhead increase, which resulted in a cubic meter of natural gas prices rising by 116 percent and 1 kilowatt hour of electricity by 28 percent. When the colleague talks about the war shocks here and the war that is causing all these problems, I would like to signal a very simple calculation, to two Visegrád countries, say, the basic rate of interest, the Czech Republic and Poland. I think that the comparison is fair, because the euro has not been introduced in any country, and neither have we. For the Czech Republic and Poland, the base rate in one country is 6.75 per cent and the base rate in the other is 7 per cent. So 6,75 and 7 percent of the base rate is in two other Visegrad countries. In our country, it is officially 13 percent, but it is effective, and the basic rate used in practice is 18 percent. The difference between the two is called a country risk premium. I think this is the extra cost that investors have to pay to have some confidence in the Hungarian currency, in Hungarian monetary and fiscal policy. And we got into the hallway of the recession, economic performance decreased in the third quarter compared to the previous quarter, and we just heard today at the MNB's backup discussion that they were talking about the technical recession in the fourth quarter. Why did I tell you all this for so long, I hope you're not bored? Because this is the time to talk about putting the salary increase of the president of the MNB in a bill, from 5 million to 6 million forints, or to translate this figure in a simpler way, so that he would look for, say, 20 start-up teachers' salaries every year, I think it's facial toaster. At the end of my mind, I have a simple question. I hope that from Mr Secretary of State or if Minister comes back, who thinks I will get an answer, because I think this would be such a dialogue. My question to you is, do it in your rejoinder to tell you who asked for this, whose proposal was to include this increase in this bill, because it is clear that most of the proposals of the bill were made within the MNB. This can be seen completely from what practical things are in it. In addition to the practical changes, did they ask for the raise themselves, or was this your idea, and what is this performance that you consider acceptable? To sum up, I can say that although there really are a number of proposals in it that I can support, and I also welcome in itself that we are only touching this law every ten years, so because it has this whole facelifting salary increase, our faction will unfortunately not be able to support it. Thank you so much for letting me tell you. [[A round of applause from Momentum.]]
u2022-11-22-128	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the Momentum Group is Mr Dávid Bedő. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-11-22-129	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, I wish we were talking about a bill that really enhances transparency and promotes efficiency, but unfortunately, I don't see it that way, but other things are hiding in this law. Obviously, there are several things here, there are very clear ones, like a raise. But let me start with what has been said here in the debate between the speeches that, according to the Statute of the Hungarian National Bank, the primary objective of the MNB is to achieve and maintain price stability. From this point of view, we can safely say that the MNB has been unable to carry out its primary task. The result is more than 21 percent inflation, 40 percent food price increases and falling forints, and we are no better at showing the deplorable performance of the central bank that we have one of Europe's highest inflation rates in Hungary. I don't want to go into the details of how we got here. Just a week before the agenda, I explained in relative detail where the National Bank of Hungary had ruined its monetary policy, how György Matolcsy had misled the monetary policy of the country and the Hungarian National Bank. I wouldn't go into that in detail right now, especially because my colleagues have already told me. I think that György Matolcsy failed with his so-called unorthodox monetary policy, that the MNB under his control was unable to manage crisis management, but even now, despite this, the government would still give him a bountiful raise. According to the bill, it would increase its basic monthly wage by 20 percent, i.e. from the current HUF 5 million to HUF 5.9 million. I ask you, has this central bank done so well in recent years that the president of the MNB, György Matolcsy, deserves a raise? Because I think it's not, and I think we can agree on that. Here, the members of the government have also told us what the task of the Hungarian National Bank is, it is quite clearly included in its Statute, and I think it is also clear that this task has failed. But I don't just want to focus on raising wages, because there are other problems with this bill that we have ahead of us. What we see is that with this bill, the government wants to extend its own dominance to the domestic banking sector, since the MNB will classify the infrastructure network of the credit institution and the post as public authorities and, on the basis of the rating, it will require them to establish an infrastructure network corresponding to the rating. Now, this change, which seems rather complicated and harmless to many, may seem like this, but unfortunately we know how this system has worked over the past 12 years: the possibility of the central bank acting as a public authority to classify infrastructure network selectively and favour certain banks while putting others at a disadvantage is increased. I think it's easy to guess, once again looking at the last 12 years, which banks will be preferred, obviously those in friendly hands, in hands owned by businessmen close to the government. And, of course, that's not the only problem with this bill. This bill also allows for the creation of a monopoly on the transport of cash, either directly with the participation of the MNB or with the participation of a third party contracted by it. Again, I won't tell you what this will give you authority over the past 12 years, and we know exactly who will have these contracts in their hands. Finally, I would obviously also like to draw attention to a change that would make it mandatory for the MNB to pay 50 percent of the profits of the year as dividends, which would not be a problem. In fact, the main problem is that this is a bit late. This should have been introduced around 2014-15, when the Hungarian National Bank generated a hundred billion in profits, when foreign currency loans were HUFed and the Hungarian National Bank sought its death on this. [[18.20]] After that, of course, we know what happened to that money, it was set up in foundations, the villas were built from it, they bought various properties and paintings, and they renovated the building of the former casino in Várkert Bazaar. And of course, of course, with all these large investments, György Matolcsy and his family became very, very rich. This, for example, became your son's Porsche collection, which we've heard a lot about. So, at the height of 2015, this amendment would have been more timely. Now, when in the coming years it is likely not to produce hundreds of billions, but rather the question of how many hundred billion losses the Hungarian National Bank will close, so the Hungarian State will probably not receive much dividends, and not a lot of money will migrate from the Hungarian National Bank to public finances. Rather, the question is how much will the Hungarian National Bank need to be helped out in the coming years. Time will tell you that. This bill is nothing more than a new reservation for the government. We find it shameful and outrageous that in the middle of the livelihood crisis, this is all the two governing parties can think about. And obviously the other part of this bill is how we can raise György Matolcsy's salary, again in the middle of the crisis. I think, and we think that György Matolcsy has failed in all respects, he has not been able to manage inflation in any way or exchange rate policy in such a way that the euro-forint exchange rate and the dollar-forint exchange rate do not constantly tip negative peaks. I told you a week ago, and I'm telling you right now, György Matolcsy doesn't deserve a raise, he deserves a layoff. Thank you very much. [[Applause for DK and Jobbik.]]
u2022-11-22-130	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Dialogue Group is Mr Tamás Mellar. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[Dr. Tamás Mellar: Dániel Z. Carpathian.]] I apologize, I left Dániel Z. Carpathian out of the list. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Again, I apologize for the mistake.
u2022-11-22-131	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Yes, some of us are in the Chamber so much that we may seem like pieces of furniture, and we often have to change places to show up. But luckily, I took the floor. We have a very important question ahead of us. I am not going to continue with my fellow Member Nacha the fight of the eternal worlds that we have. We can agree on other issues, but we can't do that because we're actually watching another movie here. I am setting it up, and I am about to confirm that you are a banker's government, essentially serving financial, global and multinational interests at the expense of the interests of the Hungarian people. On the other hand, we are Hungarians, thinking in a nation, who are trying to get these multinational and global interests out of the way and stand next to the Hungarian people; and this is the veterinary horse of foreign exchange lending. Some of my fellow Members are smiling, but they have never had the courage to try to explain to me that, when you talk about saving foreign exchange credentials, you have forinted foreign exchange loans at the market rate for a storm. Why wasn't it forinted at the rate of admission? Why did you transfer it to the man who hired it at 165 forints at 256 forints? Can one of you just press a button and explain to us how this self-destructive, national, economic betrayal could have happened in Hungary? Secretary of State, we know very little of each other, I do not know that you will be involved in this debate. I'm the one who's getting you to say not only a closing word at the end, but also to try to exchange thoughts, which, in addition to the best of intentions, infertilizes the debate. I do not want to presume your answers, but if you do not stand up during the debate, only at the end, then I think you will answer that the exchange rate for the exchange of foreign currency credits has become a market, and you have made a deal with the banks because the Curia has roughly set this dimension for you, and they will point back to the Curia. However, the situation is more complicated than that, because regardless of the Curia's decision and before that, you have established a climate of final repayment. Isn't that right, Mr. Secretary? Years before the Curia decision. What was the rate used in the end-payment? According to my memory, a discount rate of 180 HUF was granted to those who had enough money, had enough reserves. No reference was made at the time, and no reference was made to the exchange rate determined by the Curia at the time when the market forinting took place. But it was just you, the Fidesz legislation, that got out of the framework set by the Curia; it did so in the final repayment. At the end of the payout, he was able to leave for the good of the lucky ones. When the situation of the really larger amounts and large masses was to be resolved, they were not so courageous, then they pointed to the Mansion at the market rate, entered into an agreement with the Banking Association and signed a pact with the EBRD, my fellow Members, in February 2015. They were a little shy because the EBRD pact is still available in English on the government's website. In economic terms, the past sixty years have been very rare, and only the communists can be measured by squandering economic resources. But what you've been doing in this area, I don't understand why you're being mentioned in Parliament. They throw us the high ball every time, but they can't explain it, and now they won't be able to explain why they did it. The Hungarian National Bank and its legislation are very, very closely linked here. Because my colleague said very well earlier that the Hungarian National Bank was looking for you at the foreign exchange credit conversion. And what did you do with this money? Say, would you have set up a compensation fund to help the most difficult credit victims? No, that didn't happen. At the same time, in the proposal before us, when we are talking about 50 percent of the potential profits being paid in a way that can be used jointly and, where appropriate, for other purposes, the question arises why a regulation that puts up up up to 100 percent because we know such a European example has not come up before. How come there wasn't even a debate about that? When the losses need to be covered, with a simple magician, the Government of Hungary wants to spread its obligation to repay or recover for many years. I understand the short-term financial interest that we are in the middle of a major crisis, and we need to bend down here for a few, one or two ten billion, and not be unfair, and in a crisis, a lot of people would do so to try to spread out the current payment obligation and to take as little action as possible in the current crisis years. We went through this when I proposed to support the travel expenses of the SNI children, and you tried to save 3-4-5 billion forints, and you did not vote for this proposal despite your own promise. But I think it's quite amazing that you're coming here now and this is the way this proposal is going to be. What I do not think is debateable again is the position of the forint's exchange rate. I don't know a pro-government representative or potentate who would say that the exchange rate of the forint is acceptable. Let us go beyond this in one sentence: the MNB President would be entitled to a salary increase when he fulfilled his statutory task. But right away, we got to who's got a statutory job. This government likes to paint itself with a very feisty glaze and try to act as a government protecting the nation. On the other hand, the Fidesz-KDNP has somehow forgotten this fighting fever in terms of the protection of the forint's exchange rate. Secretary of State, at what rate was the government taken over in 2010? The price of one euro was 267 forints. Am I remembering right? [[Dr. Tamás Mellar: Yes!]] Yeah. Before the first news about the possibility of a war, the possibility of an armed conflict, what was the forint exchange rate? There was a euro around HUF 367. Since then, unfortunately, the exchange rate appears to be above 400 forints. The experts put it on a band between 360 and 430 that, in fact, it can move anywhere at any time, and that's the problem, that's the unpredictability. But what we need to see is that by the time we came to the sanctions policies you mentioned, the armed conflict, we had to give more than a hundred forints for one euro than at the beginning of your administration. We see the conscious strategy: you deliberately weakened the forint for your true allies, for the sake of multi-business companies. And when we asked you to do so, what was the answer: well, I am a poor Hungarian government, I do not have a license, do not charge me for the position of the forint, well, there is the Hungarian National Bank. Okay, we accept, we went to the Hungarian National Bank, and often we even asked its manager how this forint exchange rate is getting worse so fast. The answer was that I, the poor National Bank, cannot help it, because the Government of Hungary writes and Parliament adopts the National Bank Act, in which, see wonder, they do not represent an exchange rate target. [[18.30]] So the Hungarian National Bank threw this ball back, or this hot potato was thrown between them, and the end was that the Hungarian people were brutally paying and paying for it, and you didn't take responsibility for it. The thing is, there are two kinds of solutions here. One of them is to amend the Act on the National Bank of Hungary, we see an experiment, but the amendment also includes that the central bank should have an exchange rate target. So don't be so shy, don't say that the exchange rate of the forint is indifferent, not even because the Hungarian National Bank, late in its own way, tried to intervene with a narrow system of instruments; he didn't succeed, but let's not argue that he tried, he tries to stabilize the exchange rate of the forint, only this late and with such tools it doesn't work. But you can't claim that you don't have a price target, so be it. Mr Secretary of State, I would like you to state, in this debate, whether in the closing words, that you are willing to amend the law in this spirit, so that you are willing to expect an exchange rate target within any kind of buffer zone, at least to discuss it. Another important proposal, which I think could help the situation, is the amendment of the Fundamental Law to protect the integrity of the Hungarian national currency. What exactly is this about? The Fundamental Law, we've been scolding a lot, and some of us are questioning its legitimacy, by the way. I am more moderate in this area, for example, I do not say that 51 percent could or could not have been amended by two-thirds, so I think that stability is an important thing, and that we should abide by the current constitutional rules. In addition to my many criticisms, I commended the Fundamental Law on the fact that Hungary now has a public financial constitution, right, the rules of public debt can be laid down in it, and if national assets are included in it, why can't it be recorded that the value of the Hungarian national currency can also be protected? Well, if you want to protect national wealth in this document, why don't you rule out the factor that evaporates the value of national wealth the fastest? Therefore, I demand that you show the protection of the value of the forint in the Fundamental Law. Obviously, it is not possible to put a HUF exchange rate into a law or a basic law; this is not what we expect; it is about that if such an effort, such a strong effort, such as housing, does not have the right to housing in the Fundamental Law, it is just an attempt to pursue a prudent housing policy by the current government, if such an effort is made in connection with the forint, then all of your steps, decisions that point towards conscious destruction of the forint exchange rate, become unconstitutional, where they can be further attacked, where further, if there is another government, because there will be, you will need to protect the forint in a accountable manner. Everything therefore points to the need to protect the value of our national currency at the level of the Fundamental Law. I'm trying to get all this down to the ground, see why it's important. In front of the Secretary of State, there's a smartphone in front of me. The fact is that this is a normal, imaginary forint exchange rate, let's say 360-380 forints! It would be more than 40,000 forints cheaper in the store. And it may not be a problem to buy one of these from our salary at all, and there are those who receive it from the House, but believe me, for many Hungarian people in today's world, in the age of digitalization, a very, very serious cost is almost indispensable. If it's 40 or 50 thousand more expensive than the reason, just because you destroyed the forint for the benefit of multi-business companies, that means you're basically doing a special tax on your own citizens. Let's talk about a multi-network, because you like them, for a piece of clothing purchased in H&M, it could cost 5-8 thousand forints more than a medium-price piece, which would be much more affordable at a normal forint price. Let's talk vegetables, fruits. 600-800 HUF may be the difference between the price of a kilo more expensive fruit and the price of the same fruit purchased at a normal forint price. And they can say that I am a great hunter of Hungarian products, but the fact is, where do they import the machine into agriculture, for example, for the production of domesticly produced vegetables? Where's the plant protection product coming from? The machine is definitely or typically not from Hungary. If it's from abroad, why buy it? Not for euros? And we're not in the same place? It's like the rent issue. If the energy carrier were not to be bought for euros, then perhaps it would not have to be paid so much. Your conscious forint destruction, therefore, is without exaggeration a thousand billion-dollar special tax that Hungarians pay each year, and you allow, tolerate and uphold for the benefit of multi-business companies. To conclude, I must mention the IMF, which my fellow Member Nacsa has referred to, I hope that he is not as fond of the report as I felt, because this report also shows that the budget will be streamlined in the coming year by the government. This means a brutal austerity package in Hungarian. You are preparing for a brutal austerity package, there are thousands of signs of this, and you will obviously say that this will have to be done in order to make the budget sustainable. But I would like you to state now, either in the closing or in the debate, either the Secretary of State or anyone on behalf of the government, that they are not planning another IMF guardianship. It is a very, very bad memory of an era where the IMF, in the image of the IMF, has created conditions, conditions of an economic policy nature, which are significantly impaired by the sovereignty of a nation state. If you lose EU funds because of your corruption, you cannot take on Eastern megaloans, which you normally contribute to, and the rest of you, I do not suggest that you do not end up running from financial bankruptcy to the hands of the IMF and find yourself in the hands of the IMF. So let us be reassured that there is no such scenario in the front of the government. There's been a suspiciously high praise for the IMF's report lately, so we're a little scared of that. So I would ask you to help me put an end to these doubts, because it is very important that we can think on at least one common base, which must be the defence of the sovereignty of a nation state. I would like to extend this dimension to the protection of the value of national currency, all of which we imagine at the basic level of law, and we are very interested in how much the government considers these ideas to be acceptable. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the lines of DK, Momentum and LMP.]]
u2022-11-22-132	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the Dialogue Group is Mr Tamás Mellar. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-11-22-133	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, The amendment to the law before us is an amendment to the 2013 Act on the National Bank of Hungary. Obviously, in this Chamber, we all agree that the independence of the central bank is very important, and if the independence of the central bank is important, then we should immediately ask the question of who actually notes this amendment, who wrote it, and what discussions it has been through, because we have not heard about this in Minister Varga's expozee either, when, how, in what extent the conciliation took place. The question would be obvious, too, that if this is the debate that we have here, this is a very important amendment, then one of the leaders of the Hungarian National Bank should have been called here, that, after the Minister, he should also give his opinion or his position on this, so that we can rest assured that this has gone through a broad discussion and that there is a complete or almost complete agreement on the fundamental issues, or that there may still be open questions. Therefore, I find it difficult to believe and accept what the Minister said that, well, there was a consultation with the ECB, or at least the opinion of the European Central Bank has been taken into account. Well, there's no evidence of that, so either we accept it or we don't, but I think it's worth living with a suspect case here. The next thing the Minister mentioned is that it is a very important task to break down inflation. Well, the question arises here at once, then, to see the nature of this inflation. Because if this inflation is what we have been told here in this House several times over the last few months that this is war inflation, that it is sanctioned inflation, then there is really nothing to do, then we have to bear it, because in practice we cannot do much with monetary and fiscal policy; although one of the fiscal instruments can be used by the government, the price cap, but this price cap is something like when a child with rose pox is dyed pink, it will not show him a rash, but his illness and fever remain. [[18.40]] So, in such a case, it is a suppressed inflation if there are many fixed prices. Obviously, fiscal policy should also have intervened here, with a significant aggregate reduction in demand, but it would also have to be taken into account the reasons for this inflation. Obviously, one of the important reasons is that there is an overheated Hungarian economy. The other is that there is a major change in the world economy, a significant change in order to say nothing else, an age-old turn of events, this shift in technology, into which the change and transformation of the energy platform are also involved, and this obviously involves price increases in the short term. And in the third part, it is undoubtedly true that there is a war and the consequences of war, which is also in this story, but I think that only in this context can we interpret the programme to break inflation. Well, what possibility does the MNB have in this regard? Basically, he has two tools. One is the exchange rate channel and the other is the interest rate channel. My fellow Member, Dániel Z. Karpát, spoke earlier about the exchange rate channel, and for a moment I was frightened when he said that an exchange rate target should be entered. Then he changed the fact that such a purpose could not be entered. That is certainly true, because then we would have a situation where we have only one instrument, and this is the interest rate, and we need to achieve two goals, which is quite impossible, isn't it, because inflation and the exchange rate goal should also be pursued. But it is undoubtedly true that if such an amendment had already been made, it would have been very important to have a passage in this respect to confirm the task of the Hungarian National Bank to rule over the stability of the financial markets, which, by the way, is part of how the forint exchange rate develops. So if the forint exchange rate is too volatile, if there are such short-term infractions, in this case the central bank has a duty to intervene in any event, precisely because a predictable world is being created. Switching to the other channel. The interest rate channel used by the MNB is also a difficult genre, since the regulation here depends significantly on the flexibility of the economy. Most of the time, he has a weak rate of interest, which means that interest increases have to go higher and higher, and that's why such a high interest rate has developed, which you can see now. And, of course, here the Hungarian National Bank made a very big, significant mistake when it made two mistakes. One was when he said the President of the Central Bank announced that the central bank's base rate would not change, so the interest rate increase period will end. Obviously, this was an invitation to waltz, an invitation to speculate against the forint, as the central bank will not increase the central bank's base rate. When they sensed that this was not actually a sustainable story, they made another mistake, because then a new category was introduced, the so-called one-week deposit interest, which was separated from it. Thus, the central bank's base rate remained at 13 per cent and the relevant one-week deposit rate changed to 18 per cent. Well, that raises a specific credibility problem. Obviously, this or this type of problem should have been taken into account, and the fact that in such a situation, it is necessary to mention that the salary of the President of the Hungarian National Bank should be increased to HUF 6 million? While these are also types of mistakes that I am convinced that György Matolcsy will be included in the financial textbooks as the on-call veterinary horse, because such mistakes simply cannot be made, so this is an elementary level problem. Moving on. There is another problem I would like to talk about here, and this is a distinction between the relationship between equity-registered capital, how the profits and losses of the central bank are actually accounted for. In the old days, the situation was very easy, because the story was that we also learned it, and we also taught students at the university that the profits and losses of the central bank automatically cost the budget, but in Hungary there has been a significant change in the past few years. And obviously one of the problems here is what many people have referred to before me is that at the time and this is an important issue, because now the central bank is losing money when the central bank is losing money, then the budget has to pay it back in five years. What's wrong with that? It is not just this dispersal thing, but the fact that we think about it: the central bank has a loss, and it is not reimbursed by the budget, it is not given to the central bank with the money of the taxpayers. What can the central bank do in this case? Well, you can start selling your own assets, but there's a small probability of that, when you have the opportunity to access finance, which means you're trying to finance and cover this deficit with extra money. This, however, is the prohibited category, because the general government deficit cannot be solved by extra pressure from the central bank. Therefore, this opens a loophole to finance, which I think should be taken into account, and it should be taken into account in any case that this type of regulation should not be maintained in any way. I don't have any particular criticism of the other regulations. In many cases, it can be seen that these are financial engineering issues or clarification matters, which are absolutely appropriate. In conclusion, I would just like to say that I am very sorry, by the way, that there has been no real breakthrough on substantive issues, either in terms of exchange rate or in terms of loss financing or in terms of conciliation. Therefore, on my part, I do not know and the Dialogue faction cannot support this amendment. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2022-11-22-134	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the group of our country is Mr István Apáti. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-11-22-135	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Firstly, I would like to refer or respond to the thoughts of Congressman Nacsa, who very proudly said that more ratings or credit ratings are favourable to the country or the government. I am very interested in this statement and the new approach, as I was already here in the 2010 and. 14 cycles, then Congressman Nacsa has not yet sat here. At the beginning of this cycle, sometime in the region of 2012, when there were a series of negative opinions from different credit rating agencies on the country or government's activities in general, I well remember that the financial government and other actors in the government, without exception, spoke of no significance for how foreign credit rating agencies judge the country's financial situation, and besides, do not tell us from abroad what is good, what is bad, what is positive, what is negative, what is proper farming and what is inadequate farming. So when they got negative criticism, they rejected it in the strongest possible way, basatellized it, considered it insignificant. Now, when they may have had a positive sign sometimes, they try to refer you back to this almost primarily or as a first reference, which is quite perfidious, as is the fact that I have actually said this several times, they probably force me to repeat it many times, to pretend that you are responsible for success only and that all negative effects are the result of external factors. [[18.50]] Everything that is negative for the country means that the government is the victim of external, independent circumstances, sanctioned inflation, war inflation terms, which are excellent in communication, the Rogán works have created this brilliantly, but when the crisis is approaching with the coming of cold weather, it will be very little consolation instead of real measures and help that the Rogán Antalek continues to roll the communication cards with skill from the point of view of the government. Any measure that appears in the MNB law or in other legislation, and constitutes a strengthening of the debt brake, is considered appropriate by Mi Hazan, since very simplified and not too fragmented, legalized or economical, this debate can be said to be the result of our old fear that what has been caused by exchange rate risk and exchange rate fluctuations in foreign currency-based loans is partly due to the rise in basic interest rates and interest rates in forint-based loans and, in part, the risk inherent in the contract for interest rate-period loans that are unfavourable to customers. So the end result could be the same debt spiral, the debt trap and the crowds of people who are indestructible in forint-based loans, as it was before, with impact on foreign exchange-based loans. On the one hand, let me stay here for a while, because it was time to settle in the Hungarian National Bank legislation or other legislation, they had almost 13 years to rescue people from the trap of foreign exchange-based credit, but instead they did not do so, at the level of communication, yes, not in reality, the Croatians are well ahead of us in this respect, these accounts have already been settled there, and we have not yet succeeded in eliminating the eviction and auction moratorium by 15 June 2022. I will be curious, honourable members of the Government, that you will have enough social sensitivity and empathy for your own voters, and I will note that in general towards Hungarian society, so as to prevent the imposition of drastically increased charges on residential properties, and to prevent possible auctions or evictions on this basis, in due time they will prevent or hinder, since there will be no repetition of the increase in prices, nor of the consequences of foreign currency lending to date, nor of the expected release of HUF-based loans, and after the explosion of the exchange price barrier, because sooner or later, nothing will last until the end of time. At that time, by eliminating the interest rate stop, the burden on debtors, the natural person debtors, in particular, or even businesses, will be so great that they will be an unbearable burden in combination with many other negative economic circumstances. What therefore means the debt brake and preventing or preventing the debt or debt of the population is eligible. What appears in connection with the profits and losses of the MNB is, by the way, a wrapped, wrapped and wrapped confession of the fact that the problem is much greater than you dare to admit in communication and political communication space. You do not now make a full, exploratory confession in the language of criminal law, either in terms of how much trouble there is economically, but in various, whether in salad laws or in individual legislative proposals, which means, say, a narrower regulatory circle, you admit this. In Hungarian, the story is that if the MNB's situation is profitable, 50 percent or at least 50 percent should be paid for the benefit of the State, and if there is a loss, it will be spread out for five years or rolled out in front of them, or, in the case of a sale of assets, in the worst case, it will be tried or financed somehow by means of such prohibited means of printing. It should be clarified what a five-year spread means in practice, what you plan to do. That is what I would ask the Secretary of State that, if such a situation happens, unfortunately, it is very likely that this five-year rule must be used, then what exactly does this mean, how do they imagine the practical implementation of this? It would be good to avoid this, and it would be good to discuss this in principle only, but it has not been built into this proposal for a reason. If it weren't for an imminent danger, it wouldn't be in the norm. The fact that the salary of either the president of the MNB or other relevant leaders is being raised or the pay increase is now being seen is, of course, to say that this is a cheap opposition course and how petty it is to be here, even in the pocket of the President of the Central Bank, but we are living in exactly the times when it is extremely irritating, is extremely unfair. It violates people's sense of justice when the population is indebted on a forint basis, when, as mentioned above, unfortunately, there is every chance that HUF-based loans will soon cause a disaster as much as previously the foreign exchange-based loans, when unemployment is expected to increase, not with the slowdown of economic development, with a direct economic downturn, and when, say, in such matters, behind the Budapest desks, we should look at the region beyond the windows of Budapest, perhaps hundreds of kilometers away. Believe me, it's not cheap demagogy on my part when I say that it's hard enough to understand this, let's say, with the pensioner living in East Hungary, who, let's say, doesn't have a pension of HUF 100,000, with an employee living in East Hungary and Szabolcs County who doesn't have a net salary of HUF 200,000, on average, that the President of the Central Bank is no longer satisfied with a salary of around HUF 5 million, but receives an increase of HUF 6 million, not to mention his other benefits. So it would be worth showing restraint in this regard because, let's say, it is likely that Mr Matolcsy and his senior colleagues, unlike the increasingly significant part of the Hungarian population, should not have to pay their current salary to a bread, gas or electricity bill and the difference between increased salary, i.e. the rate of increase. So they would probably gain serious sympathy among the population if they stepped on the field of restraint or stepped on its soil to remove such provisions from this text. For this reason, I must say on my own account that Mi Hazan will not be able to support this proposal, and I expect an answer from the Secretary of State, as mentioned above, as to how it should be understood or interpreted, in practice, how it will look in the event of loss the application of this five-year rule, to divide the loss into five equal parts, or to what kind of payment facilitations or arrangements they invent for themselves. I hope this isn't about mathematics in virtual space, virtual math. So, on the one hand, we would expect answers to these, but perhaps even at a time when opposition representatives can respond. So I ask the Honourable Secretary of State not to use a very useful tactic in football that he wants to score when the opponent or the opposition will no longer be able to answer that because of the provisions of the house rule. So, with all due respect, I'm asking you to raise your voice. Thank you.
u2022-11-22-136	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mr Csárdi Antal. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-11-22-137	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, It is very difficult to talk about the bill you have tabled about the National Bank of Hungary without feeling, and I cannot do it. I would like to deal with one point in the draft law, and this is the salary increase of the President of the National Bank, or beyond, by two dozen state leaders. Amazing, bloody brazenness, the humiliation of millions that beneficiaries raise their salaries by hundreds of thousands of dollars or more, while completely denying teachers, social workers and other civil servants the necessary substantial increase in wages. I simply think that this speech should start with the fact that it is worth looking at when, in what economic environment, you have submitted this abomination. And when we talk about this, I should, of course, first speak about inflation, and because the primary task of the Hungarian National Bank is to maintain price stability according to the law. Compared to this, Hungary now has an inflation rate of more than 20 percent based on KSH data. [[19.00]] And the reason I point out is that I think that this will be important later, and if we only look at food price increases, it is about 45 percent, once again based on the data of the HCSO. This means that between 20 and 50 percent of all Hungarian working citizens have a real wage reduction. And you're going to present this proposal in this environment, but I did point out that I gave you the numbers on the basis of the data from the KSH. Reality differs from that. On the basis of a three-year continuous price monitoring, one economic portal found that the price of 42 basic foods was above 54 per cent, not 43 or 45 per cent as measured by the HCSO. The cheapest half-brown bread is now 600 HUF, and I would like to indicate quality below the cheapest. So the cheapest half-brown bread was now 600 forints, a year ago it was only 300 forints, and two years ago it was 200 forints. In two years, calculate the price increase. In the last year, the increase in bread was 100 percent. But I could tell you a long list of different products, how the goods ran away, but I think that this is important now from the point of view that the most important task of the Hungarian National Bank is to ensure price stability in our country. And you can explain the certificate that war inflation is not true! In the same war environment, in the same energy crisis, the EU average food inflation is 17 percent. In Hungary, it is more than 50 percent, my fellow Members. And this is the performance you are trying to reward by giving the Matolcsy clan a significant wage increase; this will also have significance later. At the moment, every fellow countryman living and working in Hungary has a problem with the uncertain situation and the immeasurable increase in prices. I think that you should know exactly: the wages of a beginner educator are HUF 312 thousand gross, which means that the net salary of a beginner educator is around HUF 210,000, and when we say that you should fix the situation of Hungarian education, you should fix the teachers' wages, you always point to the Union and everyone else, but you refuse to raise the wages of teachers. At the same time, social workers are not in a better position. Today, 80 percent of social workers earn a minimum wage of four out of five social workers or a guaranteed minimum wage; that is, 133,000 forints or 177 thousand forints if they earn a minimum wage. We must clearly say that this is a very serious loss of proportion, and this law perfectly describes the economic policy of Fidesz. And I think that I am not willing to miss a detailed list of how wages change from the perspective of different players as a result of this law. György Matolcsy, President of the National Bank of Hungary, pays from HUF 5 million a month to HUF 6 million 240 thousand. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: Simoré was 8.]] The increase amounts to HUF 1 million 240 thousand, which means that in a year, you will bring home more than HUF 15 million from our tax, and here you have to ask the rhetorical question whether you deserved it. Inflation clearly shows that it does not deserve this money, but I will tell you later why it does not deserve it, in addition to that. [[Intercoms from the Fidesz benches.]] But the salary of Dr. Mihály Patai, Dr. Csaba Kandrács, Barnabás Virág, Vice-Presidents of the Hungarian National Bank will be increased in the same way, instead of 4.5, they will receive HUF 5.6 million in basic wages, so they can also expect a 25 percent increase, with 1.1 million more. My fellow Member, Mr Fidesz, shouted that he had been raised by the rate of inflation. To the teachers, my fellow Member, and now listen to me, please. Why not increase your salary with inflation? ! To date, a teacher's salary is calculated as the minimum wage for 2014 as a projection fund. Since 2015, teachers have not received a single HUF wage increase! I would like to add further: Dr. Péter Gottfried, Kolos Kardkovács, Dr. György Kocziszky, Dr. Blanka Parragh, Gyula Pleschinger, members of the Monetary Council will take home HUF 3 million 744 thousand instead of HUF 3 million; this is also a 25 percent increase. Dr. Ferenc Papcsák, László Madarasz, Dr. András Gábor Szényei, Dr. László Nyikos, Péter Banai Benő, Viktor József Asztalos, members of the Supervisory Board of the Hungarian National Bank will also return 3 million HUF 744 thousand instead of HUF 3 million. Balázs Rigó Csaba, president of the Hungarian Competition Authority, will take 4 million HUF 992 thousand instead of 4 million HUF, so he will take 1 million HUF more home after the adoption of this law. Dr. András Tóth and Dr. László Bak, Deputy Presidents of the Hungarian Competition Authority, will receive a monthly increase of HUF 800,000. Dr. Attila Sipos, Secretary-General of the Hungarian Competition Authority, will also receive an increase of HUF 800,000 a month, Pál Kovács, Pál Ságvári, dr. Szilvia Szalóki, Levente Klimits, Vice-Presidents of the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office will take home more than HUF 800,000 on the basis of this law; dr. András Kovács, President of the Public Procurement Authority will receive an increase of HUF 1 million on the basis of this; dr. Tibor Kugler, Secretary-General of the National Public Procurement Authority, will receive an increase of HUF 800,000 on the basis of this law; dr. András Koltay, President of the National Media and Infocommunication Authority will receive an increase of HUF 1 million on the basis of this; dr. Janka Börcs, secretary of the National Public Procurement Authority will receive an increase of HUF 800,000 on the basis of the law; the new members of the Bédia and News Authority will receive HUF 2 million on behalf of the Bédia. Tímea Holbusz and Kálmán Dabóczi, Vice-Presidents of the new Integrity Authority will receive a salary of HUF 4 million, a raise of 800,000 after a few weeks. In addition, the salaries of the following people will increase by hundreds of thousands of HUF: Attila Dudra, Dr. Gábor Gál, Dr. Attila Kőhalmi, Dr. Dávid Kuritár, Dr. Izabella Szoboszlai, Nóra Váczi, members of the Competition Council, and Deputy Chairman and Deputy Director General of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority. This is included in this law by naming this law as an amendment to the Act on the National Bank of Hungary. It is simply outrageous that, in a social situation, in an economic environment, in the middle of a crisis, in the middle of an inflation crisis, they are looking for a wage increase of a scale which is extremely high for these people! And I think that this is where we need to talk about the activities of the last ten years of the Hungarian National Bank. I could understand this with what my fellow Member Kósa said, that he had lost his public money character, but the situation is that there is a tangible part of this list, and many believe that it is even a part of the list that concerns Btk. It is enough that, and I will not give you a full scale, a list, but for example, as a result of the purchase of a castle in 2015, the Hungarian National Bank bought a castle for public purposes in 2015, in 2019 it sold this at an unknown price through its foundation to a private equity fund, then in February 2022, Ádám Matolcsy's wife publishes a Facebook entry from this property with a "Home Sweet Home" subtitle. [[19.10]] Please respectfully, this is how the Hungarian National Bank plays public money into private pockets. And, obviously, it is no coincidence that the son of György Matolcsy, Adam Matolcsy, now has a fortune, a hundred billion-dollar fortune, which would have been completely unimaginable a few years ago before you came to power. And, of course, I could talk about Adam Matolcsy's Porsche collection for a long time, but I think it's worth moving on. István Kárság also benefited from the Hungarian National Bank, who performed communication tasks for the Hungarian National Bank through billion-dollar contracts, because they spent a lot of money on communication and could not catch inflation. But I think that we are also talking about a public playout when the Pallas Athena Foundation, right, bought the Castle Garden Casino for HUF 3 billion, renovated it for nearly HUF 1 billion, and what God gives, the restaurant opened there sold for HUF 306 million to a friend of Matolcsy's son, which meant that it had to be renovated in order to make a functioning sale. So again what happened was that our tax-paying money was wasted by the Hungarian National Bank. But where did you get all this money, anyway? We know very well that when you say that you saved the currency-loaners, which is, by the way, an infinite lie... the Hungarian National Bank did the forint change, which means that you sold the currency previously purchased cheaply to the banks forinting. It gave him a profit margin of which Adam Matolcsy's son made a hundred billion dollars, and I really couldn't finish the list of clans or buddies until the end of my 15-minute time frame. You can clearly see that the Magyar Nemzeti Bank would have had a source if there had been an intention to save the foreign exchange lenders, but you fixed the sold-out exchange rate for the foreign exchange lenders, and that's why so many people lost their properties, for which they worked a life. So to sum up, I think we should not be surprised that the May Other Politics will not support this bill. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And I think, on behalf of many of my compatriots, I'd end up embarrassing you. Thank you very much.
u2022-11-22-138	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I would like to ask my fellow Members for a two-minute speech. [[There's no signal.]] No. Then I'll open the debate. I would ask my fellow Members to sign in. [[For signal:]] I would like to give the floor to Mr István Apáti, from the group of our country, for the first time. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-11-22-139	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present a very important aspect, which has been left out so far in the context of the discussion of inflation effects, and I would like to point out to the attention of the present Secretary of State and all pro-government Members that the most serious inflation is taking place in the area of food, where inflation can be measured in virtually no percentages, but almost in multipliers. Trust me, there's no exaggeration. And I'm talking about basic foods, not the subject of food-luxury articles. There is a very important trigger for this, against which either by using the pricestop or price cap, if they wanted to, and, for example, would dare to confront Sándor Csányi for at least a short period of time, you would be able to do so. The production costs of Hungarian farmers have increased dramatically, not only because it costs EUR 1.5-2 per litre of fuel, but also because, for example, the prices of different seeds, pesticides and chemicals have risen to the stars and, for example, Sándor Csányi's interests are also making a terrifying profit. I think that Mr. Csányi can be satisfied with the wealth he has come up with so far, and I do not think Mr. Csányi has a livelihood problem, and we should worry about it, but he should also take the path of self-control and restraint. I understand how it can be a long-term or even short-term calculation that the more farmers fail, the more fruity and ploughing cultivated, the more valuable Hungarian agricultural land can be bought up, for example, by him and his buddies, and then practically within a short period of time for family farms, because the production costs that have been incurred, for example, in connection with the means of production, raw materials, especially chemicals, pesticides, are unmanageable, my fellow Members. So whether the authorities of the Hungarian National Bank or other decision-makers in the financial sector, if they want to, they have the means in their hands, again I say, whether by using price-stops or price caps, or by imposing a serious barrier, because there is no reason for these prices many times, only the profit hunger of hyenas and vultures, and there is no other reason to do so. This in itself accelerates a self-exciting process and represents another heating effect on inflation, as then, this is also reflected in the price of food, I would add, often not in the pockets of farmers who produce raw materials or raw materials in the fruit and vegetables sector or in the cultivation of arable land, since buying prices are often shameful and are becoming less and less sufficient for basic operation. But if you do not do so, then, on the one hand, inflation will continue to rise, the prices of food will continue to rise, and your perception, your popularity, will not be of any use, so it is in your political interest to curb this. Instead of making a narrow circle rich or gaining additional wealth, it is much more important that we can stop inflation, stop the explosion of food prices, and save small and medium-sized Hungarian family farms or farmers who will drown in such buying-in prices, especially buying fruit, in order to buy the raw materials, pesticides, chemicals, fuel, and such essential articles. So, if you are losing in the fight against inflation at the moment, try to achieve success and success in at least a few areas for all of us. Thank you very much.
u2022-11-22-140	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was Mr Csárdi. Here you go.
u2022-11-22-141	Thank you very much for the floor. The keynote speaker did not provide a framework for me to respond briefly to the speech by my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, who, in fact, gave up the mandatory Fidesz propaganda paper; he said that the IMF and the European Commission knew who else had raised their expectations about Hungarian GDP. I am not arguing with that; I am asking the non-spoken question of who is profiting from the performance of the Hungarian economy. And by the way, clearly and clearly, big corporations benefit from it, and it's the buddy circle you've been keeping. Because they profit from the performance of the Hungarian economy, not the teachers, not the social workers, not the public servants who maintain the whole system. [[Robert Szigó: Don't lie! It's not like that!]] I'm talking facts. And if my fellow Member press the button [[The president's ringing the bell.]] We can even argue! [[Robert Szigó: It's not a fact! You can't argue with lies!]]
u2022-11-22-142	Congressman! Press the button, there's a chance. [[Mr. Róbert Zsigó: Excuse me, Mr. President.]]
u2022-11-22-143	So I think the question is, when is the moment when teachers will be the winner of economic growth? [[19.20]] And I'd like to repeat that because I'm accused of lying to my fellow Member. The teacher's wage increase is necessary, because Hungarian teachers are currently paid on the basis of a projection fund calculated from the minimum wage in 2014. Today, a beginner teacher's wages barely exceed 200 thousand forints, and I think it is shameful. This is the real shame of this House, of the Hungarian Parliament and of the Ministry of Finance in particular! Thank you very much.
u2022-11-22-144	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I am now asking Mr Tibor Tóth, State Secretary, if you would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[To Tibor Tóth:]] He doesn't want to answer. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate on the bill to amend the laws affecting the financial sector until closure. Government referral T/2029. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I now give the floor to Mr János Fónagy, Secretary of State, rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2022-11-22-145	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the laws concerning the financial sector includes amendments to a number of laws concerning credit institutions, capital markets, insurance, cash flow and voluntary cash registers, as well as to the Hungarian National Bank, which supervises the financial intermediary system. The primary objective of the bill is to review certain elements of the financial intermediary regime. The sound functioning of the financial intermediary system is ensured by a significant number of legislation, where due to continuous changes in market processes and circumstances it is necessary to adapt them regularly to changes and technical progress. Dear House, The primary objective of the amendment to mortgage credit institutions is to regulate the alternative model of refinancing. The mortgage credit institutions operate predominantly in the domestic banking system, providing long-term funds to commercial banks. In addition to refinancing based on a stand-alone pledge, the amendment creates the possibility of refinancing on the basis of a mortgage credit claim. This option provides an opportunity for the mortgage bank to provide refinancing not only at the level of individual transactions but also at portfolio level. According to the new model, the collateral for the refinancing loan is a pledge on refinanced claims. The Ptk. The regulation also provides the mortgage credit institution with a right to a mortgage on real estate that is covered by the final collateral. The regulated collateral system thus guarantees adequate return security. The purpose of voluntary cash-flow proposals is to ensure that the opportunities provided by technical progress are made available to both the cash-in-case and the members as widely as possible. In this context, it will be possible in the future to carry out the general meetings more flexibly, using the opportunities offered by digital development, so as to ensure that as many members as possible participate in the functioning of the main body of the fund. The amendments will also reduce the operating costs and paper use of the cash registers by broadening the scope of the digital transmission of documents. Ladies and gentlemen, On the one hand, the amendments to the credit institution law clarify the order of satisfaction applicable to winding-up proceedings and on the other hand, require credit institutions to keep track of the local authorities whose deposits are protected by the National Deposit Insurance Fund. The reason for clarifying the order of satisfaction to be followed in winding-up proceedings is that when applying resolution measures against credit institutions, it is a statutory principle that no owner or creditor may bear a loss directly related to the application of resolution measures more than it would have borne if the institution had been wound up. Accordingly, if an independent assessment following the implementation of the resolution measure were to establish that any owner or creditor suffered more losses than it would have suffered in the event of liquidation, the creditor would be entitled to pay the difference as compensation. Other elements of the bill include the fixing of the central bank's bond issuance rules on the issuance of sovereign debt in the field of the issue of debt securities. In the area of insurance, the proposal allows the close relative of the deceased insured person to request the insurance undertaking to provide the insurance undertaking with a limited set of information on the life insurance policies and repayment insurance before the permanent closure of the legacy procedure. On this basis, the insurer will be able to perform earlier and prevent cases where, for example, the insured customer has passed away, but the relative does not know about the loan and may only face the problem when the debt is recovered, which the insurer could otherwise have repaid earlier. Dear House, The bill before us also contains provisions ensuring harmonisation of laws, namely the law on investment firms and commodity services. The amendment includes an addition to the introduction of a pilot scheme that allows market infrastructures based on shared ledger technology to operate in the European Union. Tokenisation of financial instruments, i.e. the digital emergence of financial instruments in a shared ledger or the issuance of traditional asset classes in a tokened form, provides an opportunity to improve efficiency in the post-trade and post-trade process. Dear Parliament, To sum up what has been said so far: the purpose of the proposed legislation is to further strengthen and make the financial intermediary system safer. The provisions aim at maintaining a stable, balanced functioning of the financial sector, which is part of our daily lives, and I therefore ask you to support the proposed legislation after today's debate. Thank you for your attention. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-22-146	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Sándor F. Kovács. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-11-22-147	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, As you've heard in the expo, T/2029 on the table in this House. The draft law amending the laws of the financial sector aims to ensure the sound functioning of the financial intermediary system, in line with the ongoing changes in market processes and circumstances and with the requirements of technical progress. Digitalisation in the financial sector is the greatest opportunity to make progress in the vision of the future, both in terms of availability of services and in terms of improving customer experience. In general, it is a broad and comprehensive approach beyond discussion that the legal approach to writtenness is no longer satisfactory and that the provisions of Article 21 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union are not sufficient. It has significant barriers in the century, hinders digital development, and fully restricts competition. [[19.30]] In order to meet the above objective, the bill includes a review of several elements of the financial intermediary regime. It also includes amendments to a number of laws on credit institutions, capital markets, insurance, cash flow, voluntary cash registers and the Act on the Hungarian National Bank, which supervises the financial intermediary system. Dear House, The primary objective of the amendment to the law on mortgage lending and mortgage bonds is to regulate the new model of refinancing. Loans carry out primary refinancing activities, providing long-term resources to commercial banks for the payment of mortgages. In addition to maintaining a well-functioning model of refinancing through the sale and repurchase of a stand-alone mortgage, the amendment also provides as an alternative the possibility of refinancing under the cover of mortgage rights established on a mortgage claim. The regulated solution allows the mortgage credit institution to provide refinancing at portfolio level rather than at individual customer level. The bill also includes an obligation to harmonise legislation, on the one hand, with regard to the pilot system of market infrastructures based on shared ledger technology and, on the other hand, with regard to some EU directives. Some of the crypto devices are already in the financial asset category under the existing Community and Hungarian regulations. Thus, these instruments, or the issuance of such instruments, are subject to all sectoral rules. Tokenisation of financial instruments, i.e. the digital presentation of financial instruments in shared ledgers or the issuance of traditional asset classes in a tokenised form, provides an opportunity to improve efficiency in trading and post-trade processes. Regulation, including conceptual regulation of financial instruments, should be technologically neutral, while referring to the possibility of issuing, recording, transferring and storing financial instruments by means of shared ledger technology. Ensuring this does not and cannot result in changes to the existing conceptual system, since the success of token-based systems depends on how well they cooperate at least temporarily with systems based on traditional accounting. The bill ensures that the issuance of bonds issued by the National Bank of Hungary as debt securities is governed by the application of the government debt issuance procedure. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In conclusion, the bill before us contains eligible provisions, which is why I would ask my fellow Members, like the Fidesz faction, to support the bill with their vote. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-11-22-148	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr Ferenc Dávid. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-11-22-149	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you, Mr János Fó Nagy, Deputy Minister, and Mr Sándor F. Kovács, for having highlighted the amendment to this bill. It was indeed a professional presentation. Since the points concerning the special employee programme, voluntary insurance institutions, mortgage credit institutions and capital market comments have been made very correctly, I would not get involved in these issues, because they are, in my view, primarily laying down a set of rules and trying to break the ears on this subject. However, there is one subject that, if you allow me and you have patience, I would talk longer, namely, about the use of crypto devices, and, frankly, in the end, you will feel that it is in me, not in opposition, but in uncertainty. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to talk about this in a little bit more detail. (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.) The use of fintech is becoming increasingly widespread among the Hungarian, mainly young population, 4 million Hungarian retail users are open to simpler and more convenient financial solutions and would even switch providers for full online administration. According to Eurostat, this was not mentioned in the submissions in Hungarian terms, there is relatively strong investor confidence in fintech and kryptovatalata. In 2020, 146 Fintech companies were active in Hungary. That's a lot to talk about, but it's not that we're talking about three or four companies. Unfortunately, no precise figures are available, but in Hungary the amount of property held in crypt instruments can be estimated at HUF 300 billion. Although in many countries cryptovatals are considered legal, the majority of experts consider investment in crypto devices to be a pyramid game, an extremely risky gamble. As a result of EU rules, investment in cryptovatals by Member State cannot be prohibited for foreign exchange residents in addition to full foreign exchange liberalisation, but there is no national interest in keeping their savings in the crypto Valta. In 2019 three different fintech strategies were published in Hungary: 1) a government strategy developed under the, Digital well-being programme; 2) a fintech strategy of the Hungarian National Bank; 3) a 22-point proposal of the Hungarian Banking Association. The common objective of the strategies is to create a favourable regulatory and market environment in which innovative technology and business solutions offered by traditional and new players in the financial sector can lead to simpler, cheaper and more convenient handling for customers. The proposals include introducing nationally standardised customer identification processes, ensuring paper-free administration, raising public financial awareness, and facilitating the digitalisation of the banking sector. Currently, fintech companies are subject to operating licenses issued by the Hungarian National Bank. From 1 January 2022, the tax burden on profits was halved in terms of Cryptovatal's taxation, thus reducing the tax cost of 30.5 per cent to 15 per cent. However, according to the so-called black box principle, only krypto money converted into a son currency, i.e. money that can be redeemed, is taxable, so profits held in a crypto currency or converted from crypto money to crypto money are no longer subject to tax. I know it's a little complicated, but I hope it makes some sense. So when I stay inside the circle, when I switch crypts to crypts, there's no tax liability. At the statutory level, there has not been much progress on this issue since the publication of the strategies, which is well demonstrated by the fact that the MNB does not refer to Hungarian national regulatory processes other than common regulation at EU level in its 2022 fintech and digitalisation report. Therefore, I would like to sum up my sense of absence. In my view, the amendment lacks a comprehensive proposal to create a digital and innovation-friendly financial environment. On the other hand, the relevant part of the package submitted does not cover ideas of raising financial awareness, perhaps in the context of post-school courses, nor does the national propose that it is appropriate to transpose EU trends into the Hungarian legal order, or perhaps to set up a newly introduced and named cryptotransmitter system. Due to all these shortcomings, the Democratic Coalition does not support T/2029 on the amendment of the laws affecting the financial sector. Motion No. 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-11-22-150	Thank you very much, Congressman Dávid. I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party. [[19.40]]
u2022-11-22-151	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal for a law amending the laws of the financial sector would provide for a new refinancing method to regulate the ability of the mortgage credit institution to provide long-term refinancing to credit institutions at porpholio level. The bill provides a guarantee of security in the case of new refinancing at porpholio level by laying down the rules for opening the right of satisfaction in respect of the mortgage right established on the claim and the related sub-mortgage of the property, creating consistency between the sale of the self-reimbursement or the guarantee regulation of refinancing with the application of the separate pledge. The proposed legislation also complements the definition of refinancing mortgages with the refinancing credit that can be secured by a mortgage on a claim. Ladies and Gentlemen, The bill includes a review of several elements of the financial intermediary regime, including amendments to the areas of credit institutions, capital markets, insurance, cash flow and voluntary cash registers, and changes to the supervision of the financial system. On the part of the Government, Mr János Fónagy has already explained this in detail, and I fully agree with what he said, and I do not wish to repeat it. Ladies and Gentlemen, The KDNP parliamentary faction supports T/2029 on the amendment of laws affecting the financial sector. I'm asking you to support this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-11-22-152	Thank you very much, Congressman Imre Vejkey. I now give the floor to Mr Zoltán Vajda, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2022-11-22-153	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Colleagues, Perhaps my life is the shortest, or ever, since I am a Member, I will have the shortest speech as a keynote speaker, because I would like to give you three sentences that are intended to make sense. Obviously, it's a real salad law, if I'm counting correctly, it's modifying about a dozen financial laws to a lesser extent. I appreciate that, so I can say on behalf of my faction that we value this as basically technical amendments. Although there are major amendments among them, of which I would like to highlight only one, the regulation concerning local governments, because there is a clause here, an amendment under which the mayor has to indicate every year to the OBA, so the National Deposit Insurance Fund, in respect of which deposits the self-government has insurance. We consider that burdening local governments and their institutions with such a new administrative notification obligation is difficult to understand and its justification is poor. So, although we consider the whole of the law or the whole of the draft law to be basically technical and minor in nature, because, as I said, we do not consider the municipalities to be appropriate, the MSZP fraction will follow a loose position here. That's all I was gonna say. Thank you very much.
u2022-11-22-154	Thank you very much, Congressman Zoltán Vajda. I now give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group. Can't I see it on the screen or isn't it here? [[Intercoms: He's not here.]] He's not here. Then we'll move on. I give the floor to Mr Tamás Mellár, the lead speaker of the Group of Dialogue.
u2022-11-22-155	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I'll be very brief, too. I fully agree with Mr Fó Nagy and my fellow Member, Zoltán Vajda, who have already mentioned this before me, that we are dealing with legislative amendments which mainly contain clarifications or make interpretation easier. I've read nine of these laws myself. Actually, I don't see a major problem anywhere, so I'm really going to be brief. I have three, or three notes. One is that, in relation to the amendment of the Economic Stability Act, it is mysterious to me how and why this amendment was included. If the government debt is more than half of GDP and there is a payment obligation for which the budget is not covered, it can levy taxes, contributions and levies, as this type of debt has been in the past. So now we've looked out that there's only one way to establish a specific payment obligation by law. I'm a little confused that this has some sort of ulterior motive or additional meaning, I couldn't figure that out. The other thing is, I join my fellow Member, Ferenc Dávid, I really see these crypto financial instruments as problematic, and I think it would be very risky to introduce this financial regulation here, or, if you will, legitimize it. One of the experts of this story said that I quote a sentence here, and I fully agree with this:. The Krypto exchanges do not have an independent clearing house and a security deposit guaranteeing the clearing of transactions and the safe custody of assets. Obviously, in a situation like this, I think it would be very risky to take on this in relation to our entire financial system, so we would need to take further steps here if we had to deal seriously with this at all. And the third thing, Zoltán Vajda mentioned it from another aspect, but I would like to express my appreciation for the amendment of the National Deposit Insurance Fund, that the insurance covers the deposits of the local government and the budgetary body founded by the local government. I consider this to be a very positive thing, because in previous periods, it was several times that municipalities could be in a difficult situation because of the bankruptcy of certain small banks. I think this will mean a good lifeline, so I strongly support this part. I'm ambivalent, too, because there are things I like, there are things I don't like, and at the same time most of them are people that aren't really important, so I'd like to vote for a abstention. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the opposition side.]]
u2022-11-22-156	Thank you very much, Congressman Tamás Mellar. I now give the floor to Mr István Apáti, the lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Group.
u2022-11-22-157	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I don't want to add to the word for too long either. There is no doubt that much of our country's rules on refinancing, collateral are forward-looking, and that the rules on easier or faster payment of credit cover insurance are also forward-looking. In this regard, I would point out specifically for natural persons that it would be worth considering to the government that the rules of the death benefit arrangements relating to normal residential bank accounts should also be adapted. For to the best of my knowledge, at the present time, in relation to a retail bank account, a current account, especially in the case of an unexpected death, the condition of not having the deceased, as defined in the death order, causes many months of disruption until the final estate transfer order is issued. Perhaps it would be worth considering the order laid down by law, either until the regulation of the legal succession of the spouse or of close relatives is applied by analogy or even until full acceptance, as in practice, this has made the lives of the heirs very many times miserable. Indeed, it is very rare for people to think that, in the case of payment of a de minimis fee, a death benefit is to be designated, and if, let us say, there is a savings account in addition to the retail account, then it will be repeated, and if, let us say, a large proportion of the family's cash or overdraft assets are held in the savings account, then this is a very serious problem. You can say 1500 or 2000 forints, that is the average price of making such a provision, that a little caution can be taken against the payment of 1500-2000 forints. But a lot of our fellow countrymen don't think about it, which is not a serious mistake or deficiency that should leave them in a position where they can't even access it. [[19.50]] In many cases, whether in a big city, for a year or a year and a half, I have had the pleasure of helping a landowner in a procedure where, let's say, he was living in Scotland himself, he could not really get his way in the midst of Hungarian relations, we are talking about the son of our country in Scotland, his father died, had a relatively decent fortune, and it was a very big problem that he couldn't get access, there was no death benefit. If the order of law would help this, with the beginning of the text by force of law, it could bridge a lot of problems. It's just that I've been thinking about easier satisfaction with the collateral or the collateral insurance, sorry, access to collateral, otherwise, because the collateral insurance might be less frequent. The problem mentioned above is an almost everyday problem, and the lawyer or notary involved in the succession proceedings, or even a bank administrator, will spread his arms that they would be very happy to help, but if there is no death beneficiary, the legacy must wait for this element for a long time. For this reason, however, despite the positives and forward-looking measures mentioned at the beginning of my speech, we will vote with abstention on this proposal, and that is certain provisions of the Capital Markets Act, honourable Secretary of State. However, there are rules that are or may be detrimental to the principle of transparency, so let me say a little bit more moderate, and when a debt instrument issued by the Central Bank of the European Union is placed on the market or introduced on the market, there is no obligation to apply rules concerning disclosure, transparency, the publicity of offers. Therefore, with due caution and wisdom, we will abstain from this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2022-11-22-158	Thank you very much, Congressman István Apáti. Dear Parliament, We have now reached the end of the speeches by the lead speaker, and now we will have further speeches by the other representatives, if anyone comes forward. The screen is empty, so I'll ask you if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application, so the general debate is closed and I will give the floor to János Fónagy if he so requests. [[For signal:]] He asked the floor to respond to what was said in the debate.
u2022-11-22-159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for the correct professional comments, criticisms, supporting and understanding comments. Allow me to respond to a few questions in order to strengthen the position of support. Congressman David spoke first of all about crypto devices. Firstly, that is not what this regulation is about, the regulations on crypts that we have, EU regulations. What this draft is about, therefore, is the accounting and storage of a register based on ledger technology, essentially not primarily about crypto devices, but an alternative solution to the issuance of financial instruments, providing quick settlement for transactions. Crypto tools have already been included and classified in the previous financial regulation, and the point of the current draft is that individual accounting solutions should be considered technology neutral. The financial sector, and I think there is no debate between us, is extremely innovative, so the regulation needs to be amended constantly. This is even more pronounced in the European Union, as this advanced regulation must also be implemented in the single financial markets by crossing borders. This is what the European Union has done in the Investment Service Providers Act, the regulation of the EU regulation, which has now been incorporated in the text of this current draft. It is important for these innovative instruments to achieve even greater consistency beyond technological neutrality, because it is difficult to interpret in the digital space, if at all, national borders. Thus, the different rules in the Member States would render these technologies incomprehensible, and that is why we are seeing an increasing number of EU regulations in the regulation of the financial sector. At the same time, and I would like to emphasise this, these innovative instruments must be subject to regulation and supervision in order to maintain the trust of those who use them and to avoid abuses. As far as tax exemptions are concerned, my fellow Member has raised, and I would like to stress here that the tax exemption is usually created when income is generated, so that the tax liability appears in financial processes only if income can be detected there. The financial awareness has been mentioned by several of my fellow Members, and I would like to say here that the government has a programme to raise and improve financial awareness, which has been in operation for six to seven years, and I recall that this programme, by the way, is the current person responsible for my minister's wallet, so how should I put it? The comment was in the right place, but I report that we have one and it works. I would like to say to Mr Mellar that during the draft itself, and during the presentation, and during the manifestation of the faction, regulation of a basically technical nature, the Economic Stability Act, is a separate story. Here, we have technically opened up this regulatory option. I am speaking to my fellow Member of the Council of Fathers, which you certainly know is that the problem he has described is a living, real problem, but at the same time inheritance is a civil law category, so it does not fall within the scope of financial sector regulation. The fact that such or any procedure to be followed in the event of death today puts heirs in a lengthy, complicated, even sometimes impossible position. This draft is also, as far as you can tell, a solution, but otherwise the regulation of this is indeed justified. I thank my fellow Member, Mr Vejkey, for the statements of support, and those who remain in doubt, I hope that my answer has allayed them, and I ask you to support our proposal. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-11-22-160	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, János Fónagy. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the bill on the amendment of certain laws to ensure the effective conclusion of the conditioning procedure will now follow, at the request of the Commission, until closure. Government referral T/2032. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Répássy, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, author of the item on the agenda. [[20.00]]
u2022-11-22-161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, As has already been said between the walls of this House, on 18 September a difficult but extremely constructive and forward-looking conciliation process between the Government of Hungary and the European Commission has been successfully completed, under the so-called Conditionality Mechanism. In recent years, the Hungarian Government has sought to implement and implement the commitments made to the European Commission, for which it has presented several proposals to this House. This line also includes the bill to be discussed. The bill before us puts compromise solutions with the Commission into the Hungarian legal system in order to reach agreement with the European Commission. Accordingly, the bill would amend the transitional provisions of the new declaration of assets rules which entered into force on 1 November 2022 and certain elements of the statement of assets, income and economic interest form. It would then delegate a new function to the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information in order to be able to verify, under official authority, the performance of declarations of assets on the surface of the Central Information Public Data Register. Furthermore, the bill would record the eligibility of the Integrity Authority to control public and non-public declarations of assets. Honourable Members, As a result of the consultation between the government and the European Commission, the bill would clarify the XXXI of 2022 on the amendment of certain property declarations laws relating to the control of the use of EU budget resources. transitional provisions in the rules on the declaration of assets introduced by law. According to the transitional provisions of the previously introduced legislation, persons who are members of the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. According to the provisions of Act No 202, they fulfil their obligations to make declarations of assets, as set out in Section XXXI of 2022. In accordance with the new rules of declaration of assets introduced by law, the first declaration of assets shall be made on 31 January 2023 as it stands on 31 December 2022. In compliance with the Commission's request, the proposed legislation would amend the new transitional provisions by making a declaration of assets as it stood on 1 November 2022 for the first time by 31 January. At the same time, the transitional provisions which provided for the further application of the obligation to make a declaration of assets previously in force would be deregulation in order to avoid a double declaration obligation. The bill would also amend the form of the declaration of property, income and economic interest set out in Annex 1 to the Parliamentary Act. On the one hand, the proposal clarifies that, with regard to the declaration of assets, the property used by the person who gave the declaration or by his family member for the purpose of housing on a life-style or on a permanent basis should not be indicated, but that, on the other hand, a maximum of one property would be excluded. On the other hand, a separate table for agricultural real estate would be deleted from the form, so in the future these properties will have to be numbered in lots. The bill would confer on the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information a new function, which would allow the Authority to verify the fulfilment of the publication on the website of the Central Information Public Data Register in the framework of the Transparency Authority procedure. The Transparency Authority's procedure would further strengthen public data disclosure provided by the already established central information public record interface. Under the bill, the authority could act on its own initiative and on the basis of an application, or, in the case of an infringement, on the basis of a request for an infringement to be found or terminated. If this debtor did not comply within the prescribed 15-day period, the authority would be entitled to impose a fine of between HUF 100 thousand and HUF 20 million. In this context, the bill is the Act on the Right of Information Self-determination and Freedom of Information 2011 CXII. It would exclude the examination of the obligations relating to the interface of the Central Information Public Data Register from the examination procedure of Law No 1 and, therefore, in the case of any notification to that effect, the authority would be entitled to examine the infringement in the context of the new administrative procedure. Dear House, The bill also includes additions to the functioning of the Integrity Authority, which guards the fair use of resources from the European Union, in respect of those obliged to make declarations of assets, in accordance with the rules agreed with the European Commission. In order to comply with the principle of transparency, the bill would establish the eligibility of the Integrity Authority to control public and non-public property declarations. The government remains committed to implementing and implementing the commitments made to the European Commission. The bill is intended to address Commission concerns. In order to give the Hungarian people the resources they deserve, I ask the House to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-22-162	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Répássy Róbert. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Mészáros, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2022-11-22-163	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The government's clear aim is to implement and implement the commitments made to the European Commission. As a result of the consultation between the government and the European Commission, the bill before us clarifies the XXXI of 2022 amending the laws relating to certain declarations of assets relating to the control of the use of EU budgetary resources. transitional provisions in the legislation on the declaration of assets introduced by law. Accordingly, those persons who are members of the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. According to the provisions of Act No 202, they fulfil their obligations to make declarations of assets, as set out in Section XXXI of 2022. In accordance with the new rules of declaration of assets introduced by law, the first declaration of assets shall be made by 31 January 2023 in accordance with its status as at 1 November 2022. Transitional provisions which provided for the further application of the obligation to make a declaration of assets previously in force will be deregulation and thus the avoidance of a double declaration obligation will be resolved. Another important element of the proposal is that the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information would be given a new mandate. In its new function, the Authority could verify the fulfilment of the publication on the interface of the Central Information Public Data Register in the framework of the transparency procedure. The authority could act on its own initiative and, on the basis of a notification, within a time limit of 60 days. In the event of an infringement, he would be entitled to a fine of between HUF 100 thousand and HUF 20 million if he did not comply with it within the 15-day period. The proposal would exclude the examination of surface-related obligations from the current investigation procedure of the info law, so that, in the case of any notification to that effect, the authority would be entitled to examine the infringement under the new administrative procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, The Government is seeking to implement and implement the commitments made to the European Commission. The bill before us also serves this purpose. I would ask you to support this proposal on the basis of what has been presented. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[20.10]]
u2022-11-22-164	Thank you very much, Congressman Lajos Mészáros. I now give the floor to Mr László Sebian-Petrovszki, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2022-11-22-165	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, There is now a bill before us on which we are debating, the theoretical aim of which would be that individual state leaders, including Members of Parliament, ministers, heads of government and state offices, should report as fully as possible on the assets they possess and the income they receive. Why is that even necessary? How did it work out? What was the purpose of this development? The reason is that these people have information and decision-making situations that can serve the interests of certain companies, groups of companies, resources and those above resources, and that these situations do not result in a financial advantage for this particular decision-making circle, or, if so, to find out whether there should be a procedure, so that there should be some kind of control over this particular declaration or state of property, and if this is different from the explanation, and if this is public, it should be possible to force these decision-makers to refuse to accept, say, bribes, to become corrupt, or to make similar situations happen. I think that none of us dispute that, even in today's Hungary, it is a general expectation, a social expectation, that the wealth, wealth, wealth and income of these state leaders, Members and heads of offices, should be transparent, so that we can make it possible for them not to be influenced or to receive extra income or money for what they are doing. So on the basic issue, I think that there can be agreement. The problem is with the following, the specific proposal; the Secretary of State has already heard this from me this morning on another law. The fact is that for a moment it cannot be believed that Fidesz is acting in the same way as a responsible government would otherwise be in a democracy, that is to say, that it perceives that an area, an operation is not happening as it would normally be for the benefit of the citizens, as the voters would like; for example, it senses that the income and wealth return of state leaders is not perfect, that error is going into it, that it can be avoided, bypassed, bypassed, and therefore it is suggested that these errors can be eliminated, but that it also happens in this case, as in so many cases in the last few weeks, not because Fidesz wants to create a better country in any way, in any way that Fidesz wants this country to work better, i.e. in this particular case there should be less corruption, there should not be corruptive state ministers, ministers or state leaders, that it does not act in the last few weeks, but only because Fidesz wants to create a better country, in any way that Fidesz wants to make certain things more work for the European Union, so that certain EU resources can be reclaimed, so that, that in order to bring back up certain European resources to the Hungarian countries. So there is no sublime purpose here that leads the government or Fidesz to put this situation in place in the area of declarations of assets in order to create a transparent, clear, non-corruption Hungary. Well, hell, no. And why I think this, that there is no honesty leading this government, is not only the experience and experience of the last 12 years, but I am starting with what the government calls this law; it starts with a proposal from the European Commission, this and this, and this from the government, at the request of the European Commission. So, by chance, not for your own purposes, as I said, by chance, Fidesz and the government are not coming here with this proposal in order to create a better country, but only to present the appropriate steps for Brussels because of EU funds. But I'm going to go on, and you're going to base the same situation on a bit of a historical view of what happened in the asset statements. In a case like this, it typically means that we can go back decades to say anything that happens, but it doesn't have to go back for decades, so what happened this year in terms of declarations of assets, Parliamentary representatives, state leadership declarations, is that if I have a better day, I say it's a comedy, if worse, I say it's a tragedy, but it's certainly instructive, and it shows how much Fidesz doesn't want to clear these things in any way, there's nothing honest about it. We started, and even this cycle started after the elections in April 2022, with a form of wealth declaration that had been unchanged for about a decade, over a decade. This one had its downsides, and I can't say it was perfection at all. By the way, we opposition representatives have made proposals for this in the last 12 years with the intention of improving it; I am sure you remember my fellow Members, when Antal Rogán's apartment was always expanded from week to week, and this was revealed because he had to present his declaration of assets, publish them, and then modify them several times. But you will also remember the stories of Fidesz ministers who found out that their children had their assets written on them in order to avoid having to protect them in public, that they had so much land or property of that type. So the previous declaration of assets, originally or in the last ten years, was not the perfect creation either, for example, many civil society organisations complained about this, for example, that they could not digitize them in a searchable form, say that they were consciously the Office of Parliament, so it is difficult to process, or, for example, the loopholes that some Members might have wanted to find to hide their assets, could be resolved in this, and this has almost a professionalism in the press. But the point is, after all, there was a number of ten-page forms that all state leaders, including government representatives and MPs, had to fill out in full on income as well as assets, both real estate and movable property. That was until summer. In the summer, Fidesz amended this proposal, we all remember, we remember that we don't even have to look up in the Parliamentary Diary who said what, because we were here ourselves, we had the same debate, we also remembered our own and our opponents' sentences, but what happened was that Fidesz threw away this 18-20-page detailed declaration of assets and put in about a piece of cheese paper that he called a declaration of assets. There was no real need to admit anything there, it was completely empty, an empty form was organized, on which, in fact, it was only necessary to admit what income the person had received in the last three years, from which he had received a financial benefit above a certain threshold. It hasn't had any other kind of effect. We still protested, we didn't vote, we said it wasn't about cleaning up the system, it was about showing the real face of the Fidesz system based on corruption. Of course, the fidesz power machine has been accepted and put into effect. What happened next? They ran into the slap given by the European Union, saying that the European Union was finally on its heels and said that they should be willing to operate democratically in a democracy, part of which is to fight corruption. I understand that this is extremely difficult for Fidesz, which has built and operated this system, a system based on corruption, and I understand this very clearly, but they were forced to make changes to the declarations of property again. So about two months later? it was a step in the right direction because, although it was a step backwards, family members had to redefine property declarations that had been abolished in the summer and the rules of the summer changed the rule that only the change had to be reported, and not every year a declaration of assets had to be made, and the obligation to make annual declarations of assets was restored. So you're trying to correct me on this thing. [[20.20]] But it turned out that it wasn't enough, so now we have another package ahead of us, we have to change it again, they're trying again to figure out what else the Union accepts as an act that seems real, otherwise it doesn't affect your circles so much. They're trying to do things right now, for example, that a piece of property they're living in can be taken out of the real estate line in this sense. There is no rational explanation why this should be the case, but obviously they are trying to reduce the list that will have to be shown to the pro-government Fidesz lords in their soon-to-be declaration of wealth. So nothing of the original problems has been corrected by the original I mean the non-excellent property declaration system of six months ago, but the chaos you caused, which you have done over the last few months, has now led to the birth of such a hybrid with partly good points, but it cannot be called a clean solution, which lies before us. The other part of this proposal is this particular transparency authority procedure, which, if I understand it correctly, is all about seeing the disclosure of the data or the statement that it is required to be made public. Well, it's not that big a job. I think that about as many people are affected by this certain declaration of property, so many clicks about to find these statements of property on the public pages. They'll put you in the Data Protection Authority after all. It is difficult to understand why this check should be installed there. There is no particular reason why the Data Protection Authority would be able to do so. You know, that Data Protection Authority should check anything, for example, regarding the declaration of assets of government leaders and representatives, in relation to the publicity of which the data protection authority found the use of the Pegasus system to be entirely legal on the part of the government, but against journalists who have written the details of this, but has brought proceedings against them. So, we can install one of these, which is neither explained nor politically explained. Oh, yes, you do. Of course I can. Well, you're gonna have to install that control on an organ that's under your jurisdiction. The point is, honourable Members, Members of the European Parliament and Secretary of State, that I understand that the government is trying very hard to meet the requirements of the European Union, and that it is trying to do everything often by bringing in new proposals here every two weeks in relation to laws that we have just adopted, or not so long ago, I understand that it is trying to take two more steps and it is trying to experience what is good for the Union, but let me say that we are not guiding the country in a way that is good for the Union, but in a way that is in the interest of Hungarian citizens and voters. And it certainly is not in your interest to silence the fact that the Fidesz Members, the members of the government and the other state leaders, who were elected and placed there by Fidesz, have exactly what assets, properties, movable property and similar income they have. They need to be found out by requesting information in the public interest, by publishing articles in the press, or by investigating certain reasons, because the government does not want to make this public in any way. That is what this proposal shows. In conclusion, will this proposal improve the issue of property declarations in Hungary? No. Will public life become clearer because it will be more transparent to see which state leader and which parliamentary representative have what wealth and what income? No. Can DK then vote in favour of this proposal? No, gentlemen. Thank you very much.
u2022-11-22-166	Thank you very much, Congressman László Sebian-Petrovski. I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2022-11-22-167	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It should already be pointed out that Hungary has done everything in its power to reach agreement with the European Commission. Hungary has completed its 17-point commitment to draw EU funds by the deadline. Since September 2022 the Hungarian Parliament has worked on meeting these 17 points. Hungary informed the Brussels body of the work carried out by official letter last Saturday. Ladies and Gentlemen, After this introduction, allow me to put some reflections on the keynote speech by Mr László Sebian-Petrovszki. His management speech has, in a manner of speaking, changed the way the declaration of assets has changed in the past year, as it has done in the past year. Ladies and Gentlemen, They must see that Hungary had the strictest asset declaration laws at European level. This strictest asset statement provision was constantly attacked from Brussels. They said it wasn't good, it wasn't good, nothing was good. At that time, the Hungarian Government thought that it would present a proposal to this House that there would be no debate with Brussels in the future, which would be exactly the same as the Brussels declaration of property, essentially its translation, its adaptation and this has happened. This is what happened when Hungary introduced the same obligation to make declarations of assets to Members of Parliament as it did to Members of the European Parliament in Brussels. This broke the guarantee in Brussels as to how Hungary imagines that Hungarian representatives should be subject to the same rules as Members of Brussels. So I think it would be good to put an end to this double standard, and it would be good for the Member to realise that Hungary is doing everything, and has always done everything for the Orbán government, for the Hungarian rule of law, and has developed the rule of law, but the double standard cannot be ignored. Ladies and Gentlemen, On the other hand, in relation to the rule of law procedure and the conditioned procedure initiated against Hungary, we need to consider that the Union can easily become a hostage to various political orders, such as the political orders and interests of the European Left and the Hungarian Left serving it. This should be prevented. The unity of the European Union should be preserved at a time when Europe is facing unprecedented challenges, particularly at risk. Hungary also expects its partners to have a responsible European attitude, so that the Commission can also show a responsible attitude and that it is finally possible to address in substance in the EU tasks that seriously affect the everyday lives of European citizens. Ladies and Gentlemen, As a result of the consultation between the government and the European Commission, the bill clarifies the XXXI of 2022 amending the laws relating to the control of the use of EU budget resources. transitional provisions in the rules on the declaration of assets introduced by law. Accordingly, Members of Parliament and all those who are subject to an obligation to declare assets under the provisions of the OGY Act must re-create their assets until 31 January 2023 in accordance with their status as of 1 November 2022. [[20.30]] Member László Sebian-Petrovski also complained that it is true once and for all. I would note that the European Parliament must make a declaration of assets every four years. A declaration of assets shall be made once in a cycle, and when the contents of the declaration of assets are changed, it shall only be amended and supplemented. This is what we have introduced in Hungary, but for some reason, the European Commission has again objected to the fact that this is not good, although they have to make a declaration of assets for a cycle, but we still have MEPs making declarations of assets every year. The bill simultaneously amends Ogytv. Annex 1 to the statement of property, income and economic interest form, second explanatory footnote to the statement on the subject In respect of Title 1 of Part A, the property which is used by the person giving the declaration or his family member for the purpose of housing on a life-style or permanent basis shall not be shown, but no more than one property may be used on this basis. On the other hand, a separate table for agricultural property is deleted from the form. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, I can say that the Members of Brussels do not have to make such a specific declaration on any property, but only a declaration on its value, the value they value. Ladies and Gentlemen, In addition, the bill would give NAIH a new function, under which the authority, acting under the transparency authority procedure, would be able to verify the fulfilment of the publication on the website of the central information public data register. The authority could act on its own initiative or on the basis of a notification and, in the event of an infringement, it would not only be possible to establish it, but also to call for the termination of the infringement. And if the infringement did not fulfil the obligation, the authority could impose a fine of between HUF 100,000 and HUF 20 million. Finally, the bill sets out the eligibility for verification by the Integrity Authority in relation to the declaration of assets. Ladies and Gentlemen, The Hungarian government favours the successful conclusion of the conditioning procedure; this bill also promotes this goal. The KDNP parliamentary faction therefore supports bill No 2032. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-11-22-168	Thank you very much, Congressman Imre Vejkey. I give you the floor, Honky... Mr Zoltán Vajda, lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2022-11-22-169	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I will also talk about the draft law in a moment about what we think about it, but I will say again, above all, the two thoughts that I have already said today, and I will say in the debate on every draft law that has been broken, like a broken record that has been made amendments to the agreement with the European Union. If anyone is watching, the thought I repeat as a broken record is as follows. My first thought is that we agree that the money that we owe from the European Union is due to us, and that it is due to us, the money that is due to us under the treaty, and that these must come. The difference of opinion between us is that you think that it belongs to the government and you deserve it, and we think that these money belongs to the Hungarian people, our country. And when you say at the end of your introduction that you are asking for the support of this bill for us to receive these funds, I would like to say that this is a trap that I am certainly not walking into. We are fighting against you to bring these funds to Hungary, our country, to the Hungarian people. We fully accept that the decision-makers in Brussels do not want to give up these funds as long as we have a government that steals them and wants at least guarantees that these funds are actually being used for the benefit of the Hungarian people. So the first statement that I would like you to remember is that we want these money to arrive for Hungary, and not for you, this difference of opinion between us. We are fighting to bring them to the Hungarian people, and the decision-makers in Brussels are trying to get some concessions from you, so that at least it doesn't become that every penny of it is stolen. And here I turn to the other fundamental point, which I have in mind in all such draft laws, that the title of this proposal is: "According to the request of the European Commission, certain laws need to be amended in order to complete the conditioning procedure effectively. So what you're saying in the title of the bill is that you want these amendments in order to reach an agreement. You do not ask me for advice on how to legislate, it sometimes hurts me, but now I have made you a proposal several times before, so that you do not acknowledge in the title of a bill that you are forced to do so. My proposal would be that, at a time like this, when negotiations with the European Commission raise some kind of expectation on the part of the European Commission that what they are amending, I do not want to say, in a misunderstanding, from behind, smuggle it a little secretly into a law, a salad law, as if that is what you were thinking, as if you were trying to change the rules on a specific case, let us say, a declaration of assets. Not like this, they declare out loud that we're only doing this to make the deal and make the money. I think it's a terrible bad attitude when you stress that you wouldn't want to do this on your own, that you're being forced to do it in secret, and that's why you're doing it in tight teeth. So, these are my two general thoughts about this type of law. And to get to the specific criticism of this bill or my comments on its content. Well, you're actually making all the concessions here, because you're not putting into effect the rules on the declaration of assets that were adopted in the summer, which would have made the financial situation of the debtors completely untraceable, because if it were, you wouldn't have had to report any specific personal assets, just ticking them on the form, as otherwise, in addition to the individual categories. At the same time, and here there is an important, at the same time, I think that this proposal also reduces full knowledge of the financial situation, because these loopholes serve to make it more difficult than easier to get to know these data. When the National Data Protection and Freedom of Information Authority and the Integrity Authority are known, the Integrity Authority, which you do not dare to call an anti-corruption authority with new responsibilities and privileges, will not, in my view, facilitate effective transparency of wealth. Obviously, these bodies, which have been set up by the governing parties, cannot be expected to combat government corruption effectively. This proposal, as I said a few minutes ago in my introduction, in all respects, and you are declaring it, is only a form of action aimed at reaching an agreement with the European Commission. In fact, it does not contain any new guarantees regarding the transparency of propertyisation in respect of those liable for the declaration of assets, which would be the main purpose of the procedure. Once again, our goal is to bring the real money that is due to us, but to arrive at the citizens of my country, the Hungarian people, that is our goal. At the same time, our group will take a stand when deciding on the bill. Thank you so much for letting me tell you.
u2022-11-22-170	Thank you very much, Congressman Zoltán Vajda. I now give the floor to Congressman Róbert Dudás, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2022-11-22-171	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, Almost all speakers, if not started with it, said in his speech his criticism of the title of the bill before us. [[20.40]] I don't want to repeat anything, but allow me to go over this from the very beginning. I don't know... obviously, I don't want to make any legislative proposals for you, but in many cases, we turn to this House on various topics, but it always fails in the series of things, so I'm just saying it as good advice. I am sure you think and see that, to put it mildly, it is hypocritical and transparent to start a bill by asking the European Commission to do so. That should start with the aim of eliminating corruption and protecting transparency. Obviously, there are still a number of indicators that could be put here, and this law and this legislative amendment should be designed to do so. These steps do not need to be taken because of the European Commission; they are already bad. The values and values are bad if they have thought that everything is okay, but if the European Commission so requests, let us change it. No, they should work in such a way that they are transparent and pursue corruption. By the way, let me add that the European Union is constantly being harassed, Brussels is constantly being bullied, but for 8-10 billion, I do not know exactly how many forints the country will be billboarded, what kind of bombs there are, 8-10 billion for national consultation of the European Union, according to these billings, they want to meet it and wait for the funds. I would like to join here with what one of my fellow Members said, that we voted in favour of every bill that we have put before us in order to reach agreement with the European Commission because Hungary and the Hungarian people need it; not because the Hungarian government needs it, and not to use it, but to use it so that the Hungarian people can prevail and see the positive benefits of this. There have been numerous debates here in this House on the system of declaration of assets, which is also the main topic of the bill that has been tabled to us. Jobbik has repeatedly stressed that the current system is not suitable for achieving the objectives set, and we have also explained why it is not, and we have also formulated our proposals for greater transparency based on professional basis, on how to correct the shortcomings and errors of the system, increase public confidence in the declaration of assets procedures and the policy as a whole, and promote the purity of public life. In view of this, in the time available, I do not wish to repeat and go back to the technical solutions that we have previously advocated, but let me draw the attention of my fellow Members to a few points. Unfortunately, we need to touch the property declaration system for many times. Unfortunately, neither is this, but previous rules have not been able to prevent abuse, since it has serious contradictions in the whole of the legal system. You just can't take the system seriously. We don't have to go far, think about it, according to Pál Völner's declaration of assets, he became poorer by millions of forints in 2021. Based on your asset statement. But where is the 83 million forints from corruption, which has been in the investigative documents since then? I'm sure as Secretary of State for Justice, you could say a lot about this, probably not in the light of the investigation, but let's move on. It can therefore be seen that, so far, they have failed to establish a transparent, dissuasive system of penalties, including a system of sanctions, in relation to the declaration of assets system. Let us get to the other point of the proposal. The proposal presented by the Deputy Prime Minister and presented by the Minister for Justice sets out, among other things, the following. The proposal would give the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information a new function, which would allow the Authority to verify, under the transparency authority procedure, the fulfilment of the publication on the central information public record-keeping interface. In its official capacity, the authority could act on its own initiative and on the basis of an application, within a period of 60 days, or, in the event of an infringement, in order to establish or terminate the infringement, and if the debtor did not comply with it within the 15-day period, he would be entitled to impose a fine of between HUF 100 thousand and HUF 20 million. In this context, the proposal would require an examination of the impact assessment procedure of the info law, taking into account the new authority procedure, the surface obligations, so that in the case of any notification to that effect, the authority would be entitled to examine the infringement in the framework of the new official procedure. We welcome this section, because it is precisely within these walls that it has been said on my part in the debate on the amendment of the info law in order to reach agreement with the European Commission, that we hope that, contrary to the central electronic list of data of general interest and the public data base established for the operation of the single public data search system, this system can be used for data providers and data seekers, not just for a legal place to overcome the EU's obligation. Jobbik has always supported transparency and we believe that access to information is a fundamental right in a democratic rule of law. However, Fidesz, and in particular the authorities, offices and public companies that they run, have often been an obstacle to the fulfilment of data claims of general interest. Just think that, under current rules, the controller must respond in an emergency not within 15 days, but within 45 days, which may be extended by 45 days. Although this rule will be abolished at the end of December, this regulation has hindered requests for data of general interest for years, the 90 days available have been used in general by data controllers, in many cases unduly, and by this time the data request has lost its actuality. It is precisely this kind of action, the systematic abolition of the guarantees of the Hungarian democratic rule of law, the system of brakes and counterweights, that is why the European Union is now looking at our country with a bad eye, and the corruption that follows directly from the foregoing, which you have absolutely peaked and which is now far ahead of Romania. Then allow me one last thought at the end. My fellow Member Vejkey mentioned and compared the system of declarations of assets to be completed by the representatives of the European Union and the system of declarations of assets in Hungary. I would just like to clarify that if you have to do one in a cycle, you have to do this every five years, but obviously this is a full detail. But I don't think that's the mistake, but we don't have to look at the difference here. Think of it as possible, because in my opinion, yes, that in a system where there is a European Public Prosecutor's Office, there is a supervisory body, there is a body that is constantly chasing corruption, that they are working and farming in a transparent way, let's say, like Members. [[To Róbert Szigó:]] However ridiculous this may be for my fellow Member, so perhaps a simplified declaration of assets may be enough where corruption is persecuted, but much more complicated is not enough where it is expected. Maybe that's the difference. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Róbert Zsigó intervenes.]]
u2022-11-22-172	Thank you very much, Congressman Róbert Dudás. I now give the floor to Mr István Apáti, the lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Group.
u2022-11-22-173	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Before I forget, I'd like to start with a few questions. I understand that you understand that the separate table for agricultural properties will be terminated, but regardless of the format that we have learned so far, in the format that we have learned before August, will the agricultural properties be accounted for? [[Dr. Répássy Robert nodds.]] Therefore, it is not a matter of land or a branch of forest cultivation, it is not necessary to indicate it in the same way as a house or apartment used with close relatives; it must be indicated only in a different format already known in previous years. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: Yes.]] Okay, well, I got that right, thank you. Well, this is at least the third time we have dealt with this issue in the May 2022 cycle. [[20.50]] It began with the introduction, in the last final vote before the summer break, if I remember correctly, of an almost nothing-value, almost symbolic system, which, according to income bands, had to account for income, wealth and all the circumstances you consider relevant, in a relatively wide range of ranges of income. Then came the agreement with the European Commission on a long, rugged, potty road and process, and then practically restored the original state, so to speak, made such an integral restitution in this regard, and restored to the system of standards and standards in force from 2014 onwards, and now we have a minor refining and modification of this. Well, let's be honest, in less than six months, that seems like a lot of things, but certainly not a thoughtful strategy. With the fact that, if we are to be very honest right now, I can say this to those who have been sitting here for a shorter time in this Parliament, I can also say to those who are already political veterans that practically scratching the surface on any form of declaration of property. The most effective tool, whether you like it or not, is not the Data Protection Authority and the rules on freedom of information, it is not even the publication on parliament.hu, but the more nutritious Hungarian journalists, whether they are left-wing or right-wing, those who understand and know how to look into the assets of a representative or a state leader under legal conditions. In particular, there has not been too much scandal in the declaration of assets posted on the website, except for the most sloppy Members, not many have run into such scandals, which Antal Rogán has managed, for example, because he was so superficial, he did not think it was so important, or he feels himself so much above the law that he has repeatedly made an inaccurate statement in the 2014-18 cycle. In fact, apart from journalists, it would be an essential tool, which would, of course, have to establish precise rules, which could be a system of propertyisation or asset assessment, which would be worth doing once every four years in relation to Members of Parliament, state leaders and a well-defined, well-defined, well-defined personal circle. After all, this could really answer that Members, state leaders, are proportionate to their legal income, corresponding to their wealth gain, or above it to a suspicious extent, and in this case, if not otherwise, there would be at least tax or tax policy consequences of disproportionately high or high wealth growth. You can make a property declaration on the form introduced in August, you can make a new declaration of property, you can confess to the common lifestyle residential property, or you can just leave it out of it, there's always the scraping of the surface. Unfortunately, Brussels is also leading in this regard, and it uses pretense solutions on a number of important issues. They make and produce different rules for writing desks and shelves, but their practical use is close to zero, or it doesn't even reach zero, so to speak. For example, these indissolvable anomalies have led me there for 32 years only to give a personal example that the strange and extremely steep situation arises, for example, that, on the basis of the property and income that I have shown and which I have admitted absolutely honestly, I am personally a more wealthy representative or politician than several ministers of your government, which is, let us be honest, really hard. I honestly confess what I have. I have to add an awful lot of extra pages, especially to agricultural properties, and I get criticisms, especially from unprepared journalists. This can be dangerous, too, that if a journalist only thinks that he is competent, then he is not even able to calculate, on the basis of, say, all the areas of an agricultural property, undivided common property and part property owned by the representative, the exact area covered by that property or part property. This may give rise to hundreds of acres of variation. Or when a representative is told that he has 29, 30 or 40 properties, the only thing that is not taken into account is that in either a pasture area or a forest area, if the Member has acquired an increasing share of property in the same area four times, five times four or five different contracts, it does not mean that he has 4-5-6-8-10 properties. That means that in that particular real estate, you can obtain more and more contracts, as appropriate, to an increasing share of ownership, but the two are not the same. One is capable of pissing off public opinion and the other is showing reality. Technically, the fact that you are obliged to make a declaration of assets, let us be honest with you now, fellow Members, how much cash you have, close relatives living in a common household, close relatives living in a non-common household, or those who live physically and lifestyleally in a common household, is only logged in to another permanent residence, it is almost impossible to track you down. The amounts in the bank accounts can be traced, say, by means of an asset management or asset assessment procedure. There, whether it is a foreign exchange account, a HUF account, a current account or a savings account, there are indelible traces of this type of wealth growth in the digital world. To be honest with you, in this whole regulation, which lies before us, we are bringing in a fine element of 100,000 forints to 20 million, it sounds good, but again I see little point in it, because if I want to understand or understand your intentions correctly, then, in the case of Members, the publication at Parliament.hu is automatically published or made public. I don't see the point of an extra battery like this. This is once again the rules of the regulations, this is the case of European, Brussels and, unfortunately, Hungarian self-destruction and unnecessary administration. However, they do not want to take over a very important, old-fashioned proposal from our country, but in my opinion it does not violate any right: the Member or person obliged to make a declaration of assets is obliged to state his nationality in such a way that, for example, he is linked to another country other than Hungary's nationality, because, if something is the case, this may pose national security risks, especially in the case of a decision-maker linked to serious financial resources, whether he is a national of another Member State of the European Union or a national of one of the overseas countries and is in a position to be responsible, this may indeed pose serious economic risks. Or in disputes, will a Hungarian-Canadian or Hungarian-American US dual citizen be loyal to which country, which country he makes a demonstrably or less demonstrably subjective, biased decision? This has serious risks, as well as the obligation to make a declaration of assets, it would be worth considering that double citizens, who have a nationality other than Hungarian citizenship, except for our countrymen from areas separated by the Trianon peace dictatorship, who have become citizens of other countries against their will, should be allowed to be admitted to the positions of responsible state leaders, whose list could obviously be determined on the basis of some political consensus as to how narrow or wide the circle would be if there were no grounds for exclusion in the presence of public relations with another country. An example not too far away, a practical example is the case of Péter Márki-Zay, who also has Canadian citizenship, as I understand it. The fact that he then lived in the United States for a long time, in what way he obtained this Canadian citizenship, perhaps in connection with the strange intervention of a special administrative or special administration there, raises serious questions. I'm not saying this because I've seen a lot of American movies, and I may have been impressed by certain American movie experiences, but these could be real risks, serious risks. In any case, it would be very good to finally lay down rules on the declaration of assets for a long time. Consider, fellow Members, whether the declaration of property of close relatives living in the common household should be preserved not only by the Committee on immunity, but also, where appropriate, made public. Although I know that if we put our hands on our hearts now, this alone is not a very strong card, for then those who have something to hide will draw close relatives from the top of the top hat. [[21.00]] There is no cure for death, and it is very difficult to deal with the instruments of lawmaking with an unfair attitude, so I say and say in the MiHazak Movement that the only reassuring solution would be an at least every four years property inspection. In all other opinions, the surface is either absolutely superficial or slightly deeper than the surface. Thank you so much for listening.
u2022-11-22-174	Thank you very much, Congressman István Apáti. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There will now be further speeches by Members if there is a candidate. [[No signal.]] But I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Répássy Róbert, State Secretary, who obviously wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2022-11-22-175	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, In fact, we have had a debate today that we have had a few times this semester, so we have not heard these arguments for the first time. I believe that the objective of the bill is clear, and that the government's intention is clear that the EU funds that belong to Hungary, to Hungarian people, will also be brought home through the adoption of legislative proposals or laws to address the Commission's concerns, and Hungary will receive these EU funds. How Hungary will use it you know very well that this is a long and prepared process in a tendering system. In this tender system, this afternoon, I said that every single euro cent will now be examined by eight to ten authorities, including the new authorities that you have said sceptically. [[Zoltán Vajda: Independent!]] So, honourable Members, gentlemen of the opposition, what I can say is that once again you should look at the intention or the advantage of the proposal to make public public with this proposal, both with the declarations of assets and with the rules on the Integrity Authority, and to combat corruption, these legislative proposals will be made clearer. So, of course, the fight against corruption could be further enhanced. I think that the government has done everything in its power to fight corruption, so far all legal options [[Zoltán Vajda laughs.]] They had the opportunity to explore corruption cases. The unfortunate case of the Ministry of Justice, which you have mentioned so much, proves that everyone is equal before the law, and that the laws apply to everyone. For our part, we are looking at this as a great lesson and truth for the future as well. As regards the arguments that you will not vote because you do not believe these proposals, of course you know that we will have the parliamentary majority here without you, the Parliament will accept these proposals without you, but perhaps if you do want to participate in giving the country the resources it deserves, then consider your position and vote in favour. I would add that this afternoon there has been a opposition party that has announced that, despite all reservations, it will vote in favour of these proposals, because they are useful to the country, useful to the people. I'm asking you to keep that in mind. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-11-22-176	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Répássy Róbert. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We are now at the end of the discussion of our agendas, and we are going to speak after the agenda. [[Noise. It's ringing.]] Dávid Dócs, representative of Mi Hazank, applied for a post-meeting speech. The Nógráds would also like a better life! It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman, notary.
u2022-11-22-177	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I am still here. I have repeatedly been obliged to bring up a very pressing problem for you, and although I am not an individual representative of the county of Nógrád, but regardless of that, I am a Member of Parliament, but as a resident of the country or as a lover of my own, I also consider it my duty not only to talk about the problems, but also to find answers and to offer solutions to them, in order to help the work of the decision-makers and the development of my beloved county. Perhaps you can no longer hear people's everyday conversations and problems between Parliament's walls, and statistics-based governance makes even personal relationships between politics and voters impossible, because what statistics embody is always on top of life, and always at the expense of ordinary people. Sadly, it is an old tendency that if a person takes a difficult situation that has lasted 33 years at the time of the transition, this is true, when he lives in the county of Nógrád, which, more than a hundred years after Trianon, continues to die in almost every sense, even though his talents would not give him the opportunity to do so far. With statistical data, I'd like to show you what all this means. Real estate prices are the lowest in the county of Nógrád, this can also be checked on the propertynet.hu website, which means that while the average price in Nógrád is 210 456 HUF, in the neighbouring Heves county it is 338 350 HUF, in Pest county 622 658 HUF, and in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county 318 400 HUF. This means that the price of a 100 square meter property in Nógrád County is 66 square metres in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County, 62 square metres in Heves County and only 33 square metres in Pest County. Similarly to agricultural fields: while the average price of a plougher in Nógrád County is HUF 1 192 800, this is only determined by the value of the fields of production in Heves County, Pétervásári district, which can be measured at about HUF 1 million per hectare. So according to KSH data, the county of Nógrád is also at the end of this line. I would add that this price is 63.8 percent of the national average, but there are counties that are only 20 percent compared to their land prices. The level of investment in the county is also very sad, as we are also a host, which is illustrated by the fact that only 1.2 percent of the total investment in the country has been made in 2020. But the situation of wages is not particularly rosy either, as the average gross income of 262 HUF 103 is also falling towards the end of the list.The average net income of the county of Békés is HUF 249 081 and Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén is HUF 239 050. With such wages, a young person in Nógrád has no chance of buying or saving property on his own. But I could talk about the infrastructure, it's just our working railroad, the situation of our notoriously worst road network. Although we are the second smallest county, the length of our railway lines is 201 km, which is less than Komárom-Esztergom County, and is only 2.7 percent of the national railway network. A significant part of this has a backward and poor track, or is closed to traffic or is not characterised by freight traffic. The Balassagyarmat-Vác route is less than half a hundred kilometers, but the journey time is more than two hours, so someone who is experienced in cycling and cycling will arrive by bicycle from Balassagyarmat to Vác before by train. But the same applies to roads, for which we regard only the renovation of the existing road network as strictly necessary. These are pitiful statistics, also highlighted from the data of the Hungarian Central Statistical Office, for which the immediate solution would be necessary and timely. The solution would be to launch a comprehensive catch-up programme within the framework of a concentrated five- or ten-year plan in the backward regions to create conditions for residents in smaller and more backward counties to stop their poverty and depopulation, so that Nógrád is not only a nice place but also good and livable. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Dr. István Apáti applauds.]]
u2022-11-22-178	Thank you very much, Mr Dócs Dávid, notary. Dear Parliament, No comments were received from several Members after the agenda. I thank you for the work of the Parliament. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. I wish you a restful, good night.
