u2022-06-27-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 1st meeting of the 2nd Special Meeting of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to everyone who's been monitoring our work. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the Government is the 35th Parliamentary Act. On the basis of Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament initiated the convening of an extraordinary meeting for the period from 27 to 29 June 2022. The letter and its attachment were found on the website. Dear House, Today, on 27 June, the Hungarian nation has been remembering our King Saint László for centuries. The laws of our Saint King and the victories of the nomadic peoples who attacked our country have greatly contributed to the consolidation of the protection and public order of the young Hungarian Kingdom. Therefore, the idea of the knight king, who took risks and heroically defended his people, quickly took root in the memory of the Hungarian people. But in addition to the image of the ideal knight, the hard and purposeful ruler of a firm legal order, his legends and peoples draw another face of St. Laszlo, the humble man who is able to account for his fate, and who, for the sake of his nation and community, does not turn aside his responsibilities. The 2011 CLXV on the Civil Guard and the Rules of Civil Guard. Law therefore declared this day, 27 June, St. László's day, the national day of the vigilante service. Serving the interests of the community in a selfless, courageous and disciplined way is one of the noblest professions. This is particularly true if this profession is carried out voluntarily, without financial compensation. Every day, day and day of the week, our citizens volunteer to take responsibility for the people around them, for the safety of our daily lives. Although the establishment and maintenance of public security and public order is a fundamental right and obligation of the State, it is an essential activity in this work that the vigilante carries out. Through their criminal prevention and other programmes, patrols, social, health and environmental activities, they make a significant contribution to the security of our settlements and to the security of citizens. Thanks to their dedicated work, they have become accepted and respected for our society. In addition, if necessary, our vigilantes will stand up for protection at county or national level, prevention and resolution of disasters and crises. The members of the militia have been seen there in the great floods and disaster situations of recent decades, but have also played a significant role in the implementation of protection measures in the epidemic situation. They are taking part in the protection of our borders on the side of our police and military forces, but almost immediately they have taken part in dealing with the refugee situation affecting our country as a result of the Ukrainian war. Ladies and gentlemen, Our 65,000 vigilantes operating within the framework of more than 2,000 vigilantes' associations serve nearly 10 million hours a year. Their work and engagement are an outstanding example for our local communities of how we can be involved in making our narrower, everyday environment more livable and safer. Today, the National Assembly of Hungary expresses its respect and thanks to all vigilantes who deserve the recognition of our society and Parliament every day of the year for their service. Dear Parliament, A series of contributions before the agenda will now begin. First, I give the floor to Mr László Keresztes, leader of the LMP faction. Here you go.
u2022-06-27-1	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary, members of the Government. I have to start by expressing my speech before today's agenda that we find it very irresponsible and unacceptable in itself that the Government of Hungary does not give fair information to Hungarians about the use of nuclear power, or about the Russian Paks II project, and that they specifically hold back information, suppress information, or publish false information. The Ministry of Péter Szijjártó has just taken over the management of the Paks II project during the new parliamentary term, and it is already apparent that they do not fulfil their information tasks described by law, refuse to answer and hold back specific, important information. We can also draw attention to the fact that this practically violates the dignity of the Parliament, since they do not comply with the laws adopted by themselves. I asked 14 specific questions a few weeks ago, I asked 14 written questions about the Paks II investment, and in a combined reply I received a two-point, meaningless propaganda text, which is not disrespectful to me, but to the Hungarian society, because I asked the question so that the Hungarian people knew what was going on in the background. I am telling you, honourable members of the government, that it is time to end the secrecy and end the misconception and give clear information on the exact position of this gigantic Russian investment in Paks II. It would be very, very important for them to be clear about the decisions made or the decisions they are planning to make regarding the extension of the operating times of the existing nuclear power plant blocks. It is important for the Hungarian people to see what risks you have taken in relation to either one or another plan or investment, and to be aware of the economic consequences of the bad decisions that you have made earlier, so what economic damage you have caused the Hungarian people. [[13.10]] I ask Mr Secretary of State, I think he will give the answer to what is going on with the Paks II project, he is aware of this risk, and how they appreciate the fact that the Russians have designed the new nuclear power plant above an active fault line. Do you already say openly that you will give up this Paks II project, so do you acknowledge that this Paks II project will not be implemented, or do you have plans to completely redesign this investment and what costs will it entail? It's been visible to us for years now that this Paks II project is at a dead end, yet you're spending hundreds of billions on it. Who will be responsible for this? So if you spend hundreds of billions on a dead end project like this, who's gonna take responsibility for it from the government? We have seen, and many experts have pointed out the risks of designing a new nuclear power plant above an active fault line. This does not comply with the Hungarian legislation in force, and I add that the Russians made the plans, according to Russian law it would not have been possible, even as an experiment, to design a nuclear power plant over a breaking zone, yet there is no answer. At the end of last week, Minister Palkovics made an announcement, which we can't appreciate other than that the government has practically given up on him or thinks that Paks II is impossible. The Minister announced that, compared to the plans of about a year and a half ago, the government's explicit objective was to extend its working time for the current blocks by 10-20 years. I asked the Ministry a year and a half ago. Then the then Secretary of State replied that it was not an option, so it is not possible for the new extension to take place, but this is what Minister has announced. What we know is that without network development, parallel operation of the two nuclear power plants is unthinkable, so we need gigantic network development here. We also know that the water of the Danube itself is also in question for a nuclear power plant to be able to serve the right cooling capacity. How do you respond to that? It can also be seen that even in terms of labour, there are not enough workers available in Hungary to operate a nuclear power plant, and there has been no mention of serious safety risks. We know that according to official statistics, 26 unforeseen failures, downloads and shutdowns have occurred in the last three years in the current nuclear power plant blocks. So you owe me an answer. If such decisions are taken, in full opposition to communication a year and a half ago, how have these security risks been considered, and in what way have they taken decisions, and why is this not reported to the Hungarian public? I have one more question. Minister Palkovic referred to the re-launch of uranium mining in Mecsek as an opportunity as a reserve. I asked her then, and I received an answer from Madam Deputy Minister that there is no procedure in place in Hungary. A few days later, when I received the reply of Madam Deputy Minister, I was able to reach out to the government office about the ongoing uranium mine authorisation procedure. So we have come to the point, Madam Deputy Minister, that you are giving false, false, unfounded information. I expect answers on behalf of the Hungarian people to these questions of a meat-cutting and strategic nature. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK, Dialogue, Momentum and LMP.]]
u2022-06-27-2	Mr Tamás Menczer, State Secretary, responds. Here you go.
u2022-06-27-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, If you will allow me, before we get to the energy issue you raised, may I note so much in your speech with a good sense of confidence that when you mentioned the dead end project, I remembered your group leader, Péter Ungár, who, not so long ago, witnessed a respectable self-examination, told me how much it is worth dealing with a party that would not be able to get into Parliament together with another party. In my opinion, it may not be unreasonable for such confident speeches to be raised in a person. Moving on to energy issues. There is a new situation, honourable Member, both in Europe and in the world. There are now questions that were previously unimaginable, i.e. not only how much the energy carrier costs, but also how much it will be enough and it will be able to arrive. In this respect, I am thinking primarily of oil and natural gas, but, as regards energy mixes, this is very much related to nuclear energy. You mentioned the transfer of information and the lack of information you considered to have been able to detect. So, on the one hand, the EMCDDA, of course, will continue to comply with all legislation on such matters, as has been the case so far. On the other hand, I would like to draw the honourable Member's attention to the fact that there is one of the most important information here, and the most important information here in the Parliament and, by the way, the Hungarian people everywhere in the country are aware of it. This is the information that your speech today is also specific, though in professional glaze, but it is actually an attack on the reduction of overhead and the safe supply of energy to the country, the safe replacement of our energy supply. As regards Paks, let me inform you that Paks accounts for half of the Hungarian electricity generation, i.e. about 50 percent and about a third of the Hungarian use, so without Paks there is no stable energy supply in Hungary and there is no reduction in electricity. Paks means secure, affordable and climate-friendly electricity supply. Some figures: German consumers currently receive a kilowatt hour current for HUF 180-190; the Hungarian population has been paying HUF 38 for the same amount for years at reduced prices. So if there were no Paks, the price of electricity would be about quadrupled in Hungary, and on average, the electricity bill of a family would increase by HUF 22,000 per month, as far as the economy and family aspects are concerned. As far as environmental protection is concerned, if you call yourself a green party, the currently operating Paks bloc will avoid emissions of 14 million tonnes of CO2 per year, and in the new project, the new Paks bloc will avoid 17 million tonnes of CO2 emissions per year. When the two work together, it's over 30 million tons of carbon dioxide per year. By comparison, the annual emissions of the Hungarian entire transport sector are 12 million tonnes per year, and the forested areas of our country can absorb about 6 million tonnes of carbon dioxide in one year. So the magnitudes are felt and visible, the environmental aspects are indisputable, especially if we add that the production of unit power results in 40 percent less CO2 emissions in Hungary than in Germany, which calls itself the leader in climate protection, at least until now. [[13.20]] I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that in the European Union, nuclear power plants produce 70 percent more electricity than wind and solar power plants combined. I'm not talking about renewables, just for the sake of fact. Some more data that might be important, for example, honourable Member, have already been recognised in Brussels, in the European Union, that nuclear investments should be listed in terms of sustainability. And it is also important that, if I have started speaking with energy problems, that nuclear energy, unlike gas and oil, is not a daily supply sector, but fuel can be purchased for a longer period of time in advance, safely placed and stored, therefore means much more predictability. Finally, I would also like to inform you that the government is continuing to work on the new blocks in 2029-30, so at the end of the decade, the new ones will be in commercial operation. We currently have 600 permits, and the National Office of Nuclear Energetics has recently granted permissions for slit walling and soil consolidation. The licences are, of course, professional issues, and the professionals and the agency assess everything on the basis of professional considerations. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-27-4	Tamás Melliár, representative of the Dialogue, also submitted a pre-meeting statement. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-27-5	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, When Fidesz lost the elections and governance with it in 2002, this was a huge shock for Viktor Orbán; not only because he had to leave the Prime Minister's seat, but also because he considered the results of the election to be very unfair, the decision of the people. And I have to say, he was basically right, and in my opinion, one of the best periods of governance was the period 1998-2002. However, after the election failure, Orbán vowed that if he ever wins again, he would build a system in which he could not be defeated in the elections. And he succeeded, because this is the third time Fidesz has won by two thirds, and fewer and fewer believe that it could ever be defeated in repeated elections every four years. The successful recipe, however, did not have to go far, did not have to invent it, had enough to look back at the Horthy era, when the opposition could never win, but the victory of the governing party was enveloped in every election. Well, this is the system that Viktor Orbán began to rebuild. He got some modern ideas from Putin, of course, but that was basically the pattern. And now we see the new elements of this restoration, bringing back the name of the Archbishop and the county. So Hungary does not go forward, but backwards, against the election slogan of Fidesz. But what's wrong with that? What's wrong with me, especially, who thinks you're a conservative thinker? Because, fellow Members, the Horthy era does not belong to Hungary's best traditions, especially to the one that should now be saved for the future. All I have to say is that hundreds of thousands of Hungarians left the country, including many very talented intellectuals, dozens who later won the Nobel Prize, including XX. The best-known Hungarian genius of the century, not the one you think of, not Ferenc Puskás, but Béla Bartók; he couldn't stay either. They left the country because they couldn't live in the anti-democratic, authoritarian world of my brother, where everything was covered by corruption. Today, too, many leave the country, especially for talented and hardworking people, not just for higher wages, but for predictable life, appreciation, democratic relations. Losing the educated heads also means that the chances of catching up with the developed world will be less and less. Let us remember that the Horthy era has failed to catch up on the economy, although some stabilisation has been achieved. But there is also a more serious problem than not catching up with the government that is inextricable in elections, and this is the lack of adaptation. In democracy, government changes are used to adapt to world policy and global economic change. The new government with other political colors can respond better to the new challenges. If the change of government is not possible, then the adjustment is cancelled, the old government insists on the old recipes, its own obsessions. However, the world ignores this. Although Viktor Orbán very much wanted to change the world in recent years, but this time he did not succeed, so it will follow that the conflict is getting bigger and bigger, the conflict with the world economy, world politics, and the result will be a long stagnation process, a downward spiral. Now you think I'm too pessimistic. No, fellow Members, that was the optimistic scenario. Because remember, if we have a county, then there is a county, and if there is a county, then sooner or later, the peacock will rise. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause in the dialogue.]]
u2022-06-27-6	Mr Balázs Fürjes, State Secretary, is obliged to respond. Here you go.
u2022-06-27-7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, If I took the beginning of the speech, there might even be a good debate in Parliament about which Orbán government is the best government, because Congressman acknowledged that one of the best governments was 1998-2002. We can argue that we have been able to deliver significant performances since then, but there is no doubt that only the Orbán governments can compete with the Orbán governments. I agree with the congressman on this. I advise you not to be of little faith. Hungary is a rule of law and democracy, they have already started, thanks to you, the parliamentary elections were carried out under unprecedented international and unprecedented domestic control, with the results known. It is possible, at least legally possible in Hungary, to change government, not to have little faith, not to give up their plans for this at least in the long run. János Kádár said what exactly did it sound like? To make the potato soup a potato soup, comrades. We rarely agree with him, but in the fact that things are worth calling by their names, we agree with him. Old historical institutions may be the easiest thing to call by their names, and the Archbishop should be the Archbishop, and the county should be the county of the castle. You deny a thousand years of Hungarian history if you question the legitimacy and correctness of this approach. We are not talking about the Horthy era, although we can also talk about it, but we should talk about St. Stephen, because between 1000 and 1950 there were counties in Hungary, this system of territorial administration lived for 950 years, it was an integral part of Hungarian historical traditions and Hungarian history, and it was 70 years when it didn't exist. I thought, when Mr President began his speech, that he was going to criticize us for speed. You were still a member of the Hungarian Democratic Forum in 1989-90, and the Hungarian Democratic Forum made the proposal here in the Parliament in 1990 to return the names of the county and the Archbishop to the Hungarian administration according to the traditions of the next thousand years. Who do you think you're dealing with now? For example, Kálmán Pongrácz, who in the debate of the bill in the Parliament, when the name of the county and the Archbishop was abolished, said:. The bill just submitted aims to implement the principles that Lenin and Stalin's party worked out, implemented in practice, and made public with the working peoples of the world. And János Kádár said that the name of the county and the termination of the institution of the Archbishop eliminates the feudal and bourgeois features of the medieval period, their remains, and gives them the democratic character of the people. That's the position you share now. [[13.30]] One final quote; when the thousand-year-old historical constitution was replaced shamefully by the communist constitution of 1949, Communist MEP István Kristóf said that our working class, trained in decades of struggles, enriched with the experience of the Socialist Revolution of 1919, and relying on the Soviet Union, began to lay the foundations of socialism, and our country progresses towards socialism on the path of popular democracy. These were the words and political intentions on the basis of which the thousand-year historical tradition, Hungary's historical identity and past were humiliated and the name of the county of Vármegye was removed and the institution of the Archbishop became mayor and notary. The red star was removed from everywhere in 1990, there is no Lenin boulevard, no Tolbuhin boulevard, no Engels square, no Marx square. We may also receive proposals from you to restore them, but we will continue to do the work that is respectful of Hungarian historical traditions. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-27-8	I now give the floor to Dóra Dúró, representative of our country. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2022-06-27-9	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In January this year, something has happened that has not been seen in decades: birth rates have decreased by 20 percent compared to the same period of the previous year, and what is even more worrying is that fertility has also fallen, which has not been seen since 2011. Csaba Tóth, researcher at the Institute of Economics of KRTK, draws attention to the fact that this drastic decline took place just nine months after the Covid vaccinations became mass in Hungary. It is only the Hungarian Movement that opposed making these vaccinations mandatory, and we are still the only party to represent the policy of genuine confrontation, even though it would be up to the state to investigate that this brutal setback is related to this factor. But there are not only short-term problems with childbearing, but also long-term tasks that the government should find a solution to, such as the fact that the mother's age was extremely extended at the time of the first child's child's birth, it was extended by five years in 25 years, so a Hungarian woman is almost 30 years old when she gives birth to her first child. At this point, conception is much more difficult, there is a higher risk of miscarriage, virtually fertility as a public health problem can be associated with this, and the chances of healthy children being born are less. But the black soup will only come in the next decades, because at the moment the number of 45-year-old women in Hungary is 90 thousand in scale, and 24-year-old women have only 50 thousand, so in twenty years the number of women of childbearing age has been halved, so they should have the same number of children to maintain the current state at all. So we can say that today all women of childbearing age in Hungary would have to have four children to keep the number of Hungarians around 10 million. Another problem is that the first home is extremely difficult for the 25-34-year-olds. It is also extremely high in comparison with the European Union, with 41 percent of those living with their parents even at this age; the EU average is only 28 percent. That is why the Hungarian Movement proposes the launch of a public housing program so that they can even leave the parents' house and start their own lives. Family people in the labour market are also extremely disadvantaged, and it is not true that there is any gender problem here. Women do not have a wage disadvantage in Hungary, but mothers have a wage disadvantage. This is a whole other problem, and this should be resolved in a different way. But if you look at the number of working days, for example, in 2022 there are 254 working days and only 181 teaching days, so that even if a child in a family is not sick for one day a whole year, parents have to work 73 working days to ensure that their children are supervised, and the price of camping has skyrocketed compared to last year's prices. This is why the Hungarian Movement proposes the creation of a child movement and the state's role in the resolution of child care during the summer period is much greater. To further support the claim that mothers have a wage disadvantage, unfortunately this will also be shown later in the case of pensions, as women who have raised three children can expect a starting pension of 20 percent lower in Hungary than their childless peers. So in Hungary, both the labour market and the pension system punish a large family. That is why we are proposing the introduction of a parent's allowance, which would at least compensate women with children when they are retired, mothers for the wage disadvantage they have to suffer in the labour market. Ladies and gentlemen, The child is a blessing, and our country's Movement wants the joy of becoming a parent to be experienced by as many of our compatriots as possible. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-06-27-10	In response, I give the floor to Secretary of State Eszter Vitalyos.
u2022-06-27-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I agree with the congresswoman that Hungarian families cannot be talked about enough within these walls. I also agree with you that every forint we give to families is a multi-refundable investment in the future. I also agree that every child is a blessing, which is why we put Hungarian family policy on a completely new footing in 2010. The Hungarian families were indeed the first for us. However, the work had to start from a very deep point of view. As a consequence of the Balliberal, family-criminal system, the low was the dramatic fertility rate in 2011. A long way from that shock led us to the fact that today the same number is one third higher, but we certainly still have a lot of work to do on the subject so that all the children we want can be born. It is also a fact that the number of abortions has decreased by 45 percent since 2010 and that three out of five planned children were born in 2010, this number has now jumped to four. In the first year of the family-friendly turn, we restored the duration of the plant to three years, introduced a family-friendly tax system, started a complex cradle development that resulted in nearly three times the number of settlements available, and this year there are 70,000 seats waiting for the smallest. In addition, we eased the burden of Hungarian families by making textbooks free and by allowing young people to spend their holidays on the shore of Lake Balaton through the Erzsébet camp system in the summer. 2023 will be a family budget [[Sic!]] , HUF 3225 billion to support Hungarian families, which is included in the draft budget. This is nearly HUF 450 billion higher than the items in the 2022 budget, and it is three and a half times the amount that Balliberal governments spent in 2010. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As you can see, these are just a few measures that have shown us that we are not afraid of a difficult path ahead of us in family politics, because however hard and long it may be, the Hungarian families and I are going through every wall behind our backs. However, not everyone thinks so within the walls of this House. If we let go of our fantasy for a moment and thought about how a balliberal responder would answer your question in my place, we would hear something that this is a general trend in the most economically advanced civilized areas of the earth, the fertility rate has been below reproductive levels for decades, mainly due to the pursuit of greater prosperity and individualistic thinking. Therefore, there is nothing to be done, it must be accepted, and it must be helped that, in the case of countries where this number is high but cannot support their citizens, we accept their migrants on the road one by one. [[13.40]] We, thank you very much, do not ask for any of this, we do not believe that immigration is the only way to stop population loss. We believe in Hungarian families, and that trust in them always pays off. Therefore, we consider it the main task of our government to ensure that Hungarian families live financially, spiritually and physically in a safe place with a roof over their heads, that the children they desire can be born, that young people can thrive at home, and that old parents and grandparents can live in a peaceful, calm old age. Our work is far from over, because Hungary and the future of Europe depend on how we protect and support families. To this end, we will continue to pursue our policy of a stable, complex, targeted and flexible family support system that protects families, as our long-term goal is to make families with children financially better than if they did not have children. So we would like to promote the strengthening, expansion of Hungarian families and the birth of desired children. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-27-12	I now give the floor to the representative of the MSZP, Mr Zoltán Vajda. Here you go.
u2022-06-27-13	Thank you very much. Thank you. I would quote you from Tamás Deutsch at the time of the change of regime: no one should believe that Hungary is a rule of law, but we must act as if we were living in a rule of law. What's that got to do with the budget? Well, it's much more up-to-date than we think. The Minister of Finance will present it, the Treasury Department will put it together, and then the Parliament will discuss it. Therefore, I take this seriously because of the institutions, so I pretend that we are living in a state of law, even though I know that you are acting two thirds more profitably than anyone else, driven by intention to maintain power. Nevertheless, I have been going through the government's budget bill proposal, and I must say that it is fictitious, premature, but at least problematic and opaque. This is the opinion of the Budget Council, and it is another issue of the SAO President who is now resigning, that they have put it more nuancedly than I have, but the essence of the criticism can be summarised in a concise way: the budget is not transparent, it is risky, it is hurrah-optimist. International analyses, most recently by Open Budget Survey, have shown that the Hungarian budget in the EU is the least transparent, not only Slovakia or Romania has preceded us, but also Serbia, we are currently at roughly the same level as Tunisia, and the risks are due to hurrahoptimisms. Who believes that inflation will be around 5% next year and that the euro rate will be below 380? I myself and my group have tabled amendments, and I even represent the capital's proposals, because I am convinced that there must be a say in the way the local authorities shape the budget. By translating their request, we initiate the reduction of the local government sarcasm, the solidarity tax, and initiate the settlements to recover the vehicle tax they have taken from them, and initiate that the municipal government and the state are in proportion to the share of public transport expenditure in excess of ticket revenues, as is the case in the Member States of law. In addition, the MSZP fraction has also made proposals for amendments aimed at finally providing the necessary resources for health, education and the social sphere. It is proposed that pensions should be a mixed indexation following wage increases, the doubling of family allowances, children and children, the wage increase of health professionals or the launching of a national housing programme. As an individual parliamentary representative of Alsórákos and Kertváros, I have also initiated amendments in national and local matters. My national proposal is to introduce a zero-percent public transport rate. This is in line with Minister Palkovic's climate-leased thoughts, which we learned after consulting his German colleague. However, my proposal is cheaper, since its impact is almost rounding difference in the budget and on the long term. That is why I have contacted Mr Palkovic's new Secretary of State, Dávid Vitézy, who is responsible for transport policy, and I trust that he is truly committed to public transport. In the context of my local proposals, I can say that these are the legitimate requests of the community, many of which have been promised by Fidesz since cycles, but there is no progress in these matters, such as the linking of HÉV and M2 metros, road renovations, the construction of the overpass at Füredi út or the construction of a noise protection wall at the Körvaszártó row. It is beyond discussion that these will improve the lives of the inhabitants of my constituency. That is why I came to the Fidesz MEP I defeated in April, I just saw Kristóf Szatmáry, he is sitting here, of course, only on a party list, but I am sure that these amendments can be well recommended, so I trust that Mr Szatmáry will also support the proposals of the inhabitants of Alsórákos and Kertváros. Let me also say a few words about party-independent proposals. These are indeed professional amendments, which serve the future of our children, namely education and, for example, the issue of supporting Waldorf schools. I believe that there really is no room for political debate just because of children, and that the proposals can be proposed for adoption. In conclusion, you can make sense of it. I'm talking about you working profitably, but I want you to put two thirds aside and realize that the proposals will benefit you as well. The adoption of good proposals is good for you, but especially for the municipalities and Hungarian families. Please support these amendments. Thank you for listening, I look forward to your reply, and please note that the euro has become HUF 404, and this is not a computer error message, while the Polish złoty and Czech koruna are stable. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] So I hope you won't respond personally, I'm waiting for your professional response. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the lines of DK, Dialogue, Momentum and MSZP.]]
u2022-06-27-14	It is fortunate that the Member was not personal, but that he moved the budget debate to the period before the agenda, but he could do so. Mr. Secretary of State Tallai will answer. Here you go.
u2022-06-27-15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In 90 percent of your speech, you spoke about the proposals for amending the budget you submitted. Since you're the first congressman, you probably don't know that there's a detailed debate about the budget... [[Zoltán Vajda: I was here all along!]] But you'll have to look at the house rules. [[Zoltán Vajda intervenes.]] and in the detailed discussion of the budget, the amendments should be made to Parliament [[Bence Rétvári: The detailed debate is not here! That's on the committee!]] and convince the majority to support your amendment proposals. By the way, if you look at it, you have talked about the need for more money for municipalities; you need more money for health care; you need more money for education; you want to give more money to pensioners; you want to transform the tax system, and I do not know what it looks like; but you want to build a way beyond that; and I agree, of course, with you, what has not been built in your constituency, to build it. Well, there's still a lot of us here in Parliament on this matter. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Those who would like to achieve the same with the budget. Look, as a representative of the Ministry of Finance, I'd like to remind you what this budget means for the people in what situation it was made. During the war, during the economic crisis, during the energy crisis, during the European Union's failed sanctions policy, and there is a strong inflationary pressure, an inflationary impact on the world, Europe and Hungary. And, look, the following things are not going backwards: there is no going backwards in taxation, for example on family taxation; there is no going backwards in applying one of Europe's smallest personal income taxes, 15 percent; there is no going backwards in the tax exemption for under 25 and the tax exemption for mothers with four children. But there is no setback in Europe's lowest corporate tax rate, not even in the 9 percent corporate tax. There is no step backwards in home creation and no step backwards in protecting the real value of pensions. There is no backwards or even an increase in workers' incomes, as incomes are higher than inflation, so with this economic system we protect income creators and workers from inflation. But there's no going backwards in reducing the family's rent. In Europe, Hungary is the only country in which we are able to protect families, because we know that we need to establish a Rezségvédelmi Fund in the budget, and thus the official prices introduced ten years ago must be protected for the benefit of families. [[13.50]] What's the progress? For example, the lack of a budget will also decrease in such a situation. We are still in the middle of Europe, despite the covid, the coronal virus epidemic, but we will continue to reduce this and we will be able to bring it below 3 per cent; not next year, in the following year. The level and extent of public debt are also decreasing. It is not growing, as it may be in a time of war economic crisis, as it would be almost legal and obvious, but it will reduce the level of public debt as compared to GDP. There will also be a decline in inflation, which you are criticizing, and you do not believe that it will be 5.2 percent. Read the analysts' assessment and forecast; what we say is a safer, modest rate of inflation. There is no step backwards in the fact that the scale of economic growth will continue to exceed 4 percent next year, and we are at the forefront of the European Union. There is a step forward in the fact that Hungary's military security will increase, which is served by the Hungarian Defence Fund, which amounts to HUF 842 billion. Overall, if we look at the situation of the world, the country, Hungary, this budget does give Hungary peace and security. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-27-16	Now it's time for the Momentum representative, Márton Tompos, Kristóf. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-27-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, Once again, I would like to bring to Parliament a matter concerning the inner part of Budapest, and this is the matter of the party district, its maiden name Inner-Erzsébetváros. I've been living there for quite some time, which is why I've had the pleasure of watching the two tours practically identical, and there's been a network of restaurants, taverns, and various nightclubs. There's obviously a lot of reasons for that. This can be described as the abolition of the Vizoviczki empire, including the low-cost revolution, namely the explosion of low-cost tourism, the great location, but the main thing is that there are strict closing rules in the surrounding districts and even in the part outside the Elizabeth boulevard, i.e. in Exterior and Middle-Erzsébetváros. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You didn't win!]] This means that a large part of Budapest's partyers have been pushed into the inner-Erzsébetváros part, so that they can go mad there. Obviously, as a resident there, we are not necessarily happy with this situation. The problem is that as a tourist, it's obviously confusing, but if someone lives there, and their mornings are filled with going to school, going to work, walking dogs that you have to avoid droppings, vomiting and garbage every single day, that's a problem. [[To intervene:]] Well, I'd know from you, for instance, but that's not the topic. The topic of the present moment is that of the VII. within the district, there has been a situation where the local government, whose representatives I welcome here, have been following and trying to combat this situation for a very long time, is trying to do something, but cannot clean up so much and maintain a public security system that would hinder the party at any level. What's on the other hand is that the local government gets their business tax back. At the same time as the VII. The district goes back to the districts in proportion to the population, meaning that there is no extra money for the additional care of public security or public cleanliness. That's what the so-called custody fee was for. The supervisory fee was that if there is a much higher environmental burden in one area, the traffic is much higher, pay in addition, and that money can be used to carry out public cleanliness and public security tasks. But this award was maximized by the National Assembly at such a level that there is no money for the district. Erzsébetváros received 15 million forints from the supervisory fee, which in such a district means absolutely nothing or gets nowhere. But Covid didn't even allow the district to collect a third of that. I would therefore like to ask you, fellow Members, to do something about this situation. Help me with the VII. To enforce the rules of the district municipality, help to ensure that places that behave normally, which are open to municipal proposals, which are willing to talk to local residents, benefit from them, and those places that are drinkers that are not interested in the rules or close or start cooperating. But you need money for that. Therefore, I ask you to consider lifting the current capping of the supervisory fee for at least Elizabethtown or Internal Erzsébetváros, because then it would be possible to find money to allow internal-Erzsébetváros to live in a normal environment and to maintain normal places. It is not so complicated, and I will present an amendment and ask you to support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-06-27-18	Mr. Balázs Fürjes has the floor again.
u2022-06-27-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, We may have heard a late campaign speech in Elizabeth City, as what happened in Elizabeth City was that yesterday, at the mid-term election, the VII. In the district, as in the neighbouring city of József, Fidesz's candidate has lost a serious defeat to your candidate. [[To intervene:]] I'm sure it wasn't in return, because it was earlier in time. In any case, congratulations to all the local government representatives who were elected yesterday. Where we were facing each other yesterday, the first choice was... [[Noise on the opposition side.]] I understand that it is unpleasant for you to face the facts, but we have also listened to you, now, please, listen to me. So what happened yesterday was, where we were facing each other, there were a lot, very little [[Sic!]] Your municipal candidates and mayor candidates have been defeated. On 3 April, this was the first election in Hungary since the parliamentary elections, and for the first time the Hungarians were able to give an opinion on who's opinion on the performance shown by you and by us since 3 April. It seems as if we are watching a different movie and you are watching it, and the Hungarians are thinking very differently about what is important in Budapest and what is important in Hungary. I was also embarrassed, beyond the fact that this seemed like a late campaign speech before the agenda, because now you are the catfight, if we understand the press correctly, arranged with your ally, Ferenc Gyurcsány, and the Capital Assembly can hold meetings again. This speech must be addressed to Gergely Christmas. I agree with you, Congressman, there are ignominious conditions in the capital. I agree with you, Congressman, for three years, since István Tarlós is not the mayor, the city is falling apart, the filth is really growing, the state of public cleanliness is deteriorating, the traffic situation is deteriorating, we are constantly facing building but never ending developments, and to this day we still don't know when to get back on the Chain Bridge, when to get back to Blaha Lujza Square. [[Rebecca Szabó: When you get the 1.6 billion forints you promised, you'll get it!]] I agree with you, Congressman, but you need to discuss this with the Mayor and with the Metropolitan Assembly, the conditions in the capital are unsustainable. Of course, I am well aware of the narrative you referred to from the interventions, we know that according to the capital city, Gergely Christmas and the metropolitan leadership of which the Momentum is also part, there is a small, poor, helpless, vulnerable, helpless government, and there is a large, bumfordian, violent government, we know that it is always different in winter, the snow, the summer is warm, perhaps Tarlos and always the government. [[Rebecca Szabó: You have war, Soros, Gyurcsány!]] Of course, you're trying to make yourself a victim, trying to gain popularity and pass on responsibility. It's always somebody else's fault. It must also be for the elections on 3 April, and for sure, for the municipal elections in Budapest this Sunday, it is someone else's fault and not the parties who suffer these defeats. [[14.00]] It is not now, and I am indeed a little surprised, because it is indeed a problem for the metropolitan government, but we can find an opportunity to take stock of the capital's financial situation. In terms of business tax revenue this year, the capital will have a business tax revenue higher than the business tax revenue of the year 19 and more, so that the years before the crisis are over the business tax revenue, while we have introduced the tax relief of small entrepreneurs in order to protect Hungarian families and Hungarian jobs, which you have violently attacked. No, Congressman, the five minutes available for this speech are almost over, and the most important thing is that, at your request, we will not use any tax increases, tax increases on people. We also told Gergely Christmas at the Council of Public Developments in Budapest that we cannot support the debt of the capital and the increase in taxes [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The necessary funds are available for you to run the capital. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-06-27-20	Next up is the representative of Jobbik, Mr László György Lukács. There you go. I'll give you the floor.
u2022-06-27-21	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, What do the streets of Budapest have in common between the M7 motorway in summer? Well, the common thing is, they're both stuck in traffic, typically big as hell. But, fellow Members, calm down, the two problems can be solved. The problem in Budapest can be solved by convincing Gergely Christmas not to set up bus lanes and close the quay, but by allowing traffic to pass through the city as it should and not in the city. But the other problem can also be solved, the summer congestion on the M7, which typically lasts from mid-June to the end of August. The solution is called expanding the M7 motorway. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: That's right!]] The EPP Jobbik has spoken at least four times in the previous term, especially our representatives from Somogy County, in order to allow the people living there and going on holiday to travel in more cultural conditions, possibly between Budapest and Lake Balaton, not three hours, often four hours, but to take advantage of the features of the motorway. It is clear that it is a recurring problem, not for a year or so, and not only for the season and a day when, say, road renovation is ordered in the middle of the summer's greatest heat on M7, but continuously, from June until the end of August. It is also clear that there are a daily average of 90,000 cars on this section, which, apart from a very small part, is forced to travel twice in two lanes. So it is clear that from the 90-mile stone to Budapest and from Budapest to the 90-milestone, the motorway should be three lanes at least three times. [[Bence Rétvári: Three times three? Not three plus three?]] ; so that they can travel in three lanes on one side and in three lanes on the other side. From this point on, it is clear that those who live there, who suffer the cost and cost of traffic jams, can also get home more comfortably, and those who start on holiday, even if you make it a little harder for them to start now, although Balaton seems to be a logical target, since at a price of 404 forints, you may not even be able to go abroad. I encourage you all to dare to take a vacation in the country, but with such prices, it might be more dangerous abroad. Professionals, local residents and travelers also demand, ask and expect you to resolve this, and the question is what to wait for, because in recent years you have constantly postponed this solution, this expansion, and have constantly tried to suggest a detour to make sure that people don't go at this time, not at any time, regardless of the weekend, and even on many occasions on weekdays, the motorway is crowded. But there is another very important problem, which also affects weekends or even summer travellers, but it is also a little wider, and this is the question of motorway stickers. Also, Jobbik's old claim to introduce a one-week-old freeway sticker instead of a ten-day-long-trip sticker would be a great help for those who only take a one-time trip or want to get on the highway once, say, on holiday or even on the job, because many people cannot afford to accumulate unnecessary over-use or unnecessary fees by changing tickets for ten days. Instead, a one-day freeway sticker could be used fairly. I would add that a ten-day freeway sticker will cost HUF 3820 per year as a result of the increases. In many cases, this HUF 3820 is paid by someone who only has to go back and forth to Budapest or to another county seat and appear there for his work or possibly for other purposes. So it is realistic and logical to introduce it, and Jobbik has been pushing for it for a very long time. It is incomprehensible why you are reluctant to introduce a one-day motorway sticker when, according to a poll, a large part of the population would choose to do so. At least 40 percent of respondents would like to use a one - day sticker instead of a ten - day sticker, as it would come out better in costs or use it only once and do not have to pay the ten - day fee. So, ultimately, if we introduced a one-day motorway sticker, it would make it easier for the public, it would improve the mobility and transport of many people in many ways. But given your ideas and the attempts of the past few years, the expansion of the M7 has not been resolved, you have not been convinced, nor have you been persuaded in the one-day freeway sticker. So, as a resident of Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County, let me give you a detour and give you a tip for those who may not want to be in traffic. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] to the M7 with a ten-day sticker: we look forward to them at Lake Tisza, they can come down there without a freeway sticker, and the landscape is beautiful. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2022-06-27-22	State Secretary Csaba Dömötör, please.
u2022-06-27-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We agree on one thing: Lake Tisza is really beautiful, it is worth leaving, but it may not be my opinion on this. As regards road development and the first part of his speech: it is remarkable that he spoke here and expressed expectations for left-wing politicians, as if they had not been elected as members of a left-wing alliance a few weeks ago. We also consider it important that transport improvements take into account traffic conditions, changing transport habits, even different transport habits, and just as much the interests and needs of the local people. Perhaps you cannot argue that in recent years we have seen the most important road development programme in recent decades, and I am also thinking about the development of the motorways and, by the way, the development of the side roads. This also means that the time is near when each county seat is connected to the motorway network, and even these highway networks reach the border in every place. If that happens, I don't think you'll dispute the significance of this either. We have a sense of absence in Budapest, and I agree here again, because many people feel that developments, which in many cases take place with government help, are not coordinated. And if it's not coordinated, it's gonna be traffic chaos. During the time of Lord Mayor István Tarlós, there were renovations, but such an Őskáus, such a transport Őskáus was never there; not to mention, these investments are delayed. And what makes this worse, they try to coordinate social groups, motorists, or cyclists. We told you last time, and we're telling you right now, it's not going to make the capital more livable if class-fighters push each other against each other, but if everyone has the freedom to drive either by car or by bicycle, and they choose any one of them, they can do this at an appropriate level. Perhaps you agree that we are closer than we were at the beginning of the period of governance, when there were motorways built in PPP investment, in a very costly way, it also meant high costs for citizens; we were able to come out of this situation and create greater transparency. And if you mentioned Jász-Nagykun, at the beginning of the government, you couldn't approach Szolnok on the expressway, and now you can. We've been there several times during the campaign, and I can tell you that the length of time to Szolnok has been drastically reduced, not to mention much safer. I would like to respond to one more thing, honourable Member, because we do not forget what kind of messages we are receiving, we have received here in the last few weeks. Recently, Peter James told the governing parties that we did not defeat him. [[14.10]] I would also like to make it clear that it is not the duty of the governing parties, not the most important task of them to fight with Peter James, but I would add one thing to this message: Peter James was not defeated by the governing parties, but his own supporters, which is no wonder that according to press reports, their immediate men have a million-dollar salary per dam. [[Defiance.]] And after campaigning with a man who was reportedly assaulting a young girl at a rural gathering, the whole thing didn't have any consequences, and these are just the current cases. It has long been clear that the shadow box practiced in front of the mirror will once end badly, so it has been: now it is a great deal for the better supporters and members to make an alliance with the Gyurcsányek, and this alliance has no advantage for you, unless we consider the near-destructive state to be. One more question might be: What do Jobbik and the county have in common? The fact that they were both destroyed by the Communists. The name of the county can still be restored, but in these circumstances Jobbik is clearly to be blamed for the misfortunes, and therefore only themselves can be blamed. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-27-24	Now it's time for László Sebian-Petrovski, on behalf of DK. I give you the floor.
u2022-06-27-25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Parliament, Allow me to mention some of the events of the past few days at the beginning of my speech. Every day we received news of a new record of the euro exchange rate, today, the euro reached a price of HUF 404, but the interest rate on student loans increases by two and a half times. There was a series of announcements about how companies would transfer the extra profit tax imposed on them by the government to the population, and more and more dramatic information about the release of food prices. Last week, compared to the price of dairy products a year earlier, the news came from a 40 percent increase, but today's news is that the price of bread is also rising by nearly 40 percent. So to sum up: now there is brutal inflation in the country, weak forints, austerity and additional taxes on the population. In addition to these news, however, we need to talk about one more news that is important and that determines the lives of the people, and that is that, in the midst of this, the Orbán government has begun to develop another evil plan. This is not a plan to stop inflation, not to remedy economic problems or to reduce people's problems, but to lead Hungary out of the European Union. It is difficult to interpret differently the political pamphlet presented by fellow Members of Fidesz and KDNP as the parliamentary decision package, including Mr Speaker, last week, and the essence of which is to reverse the development of the European Union by decades, has basically given an ice pick to those who are the enemies of the European Union to destroy the results achieved by Western countries and their citizens over the decades. To say just one thing from the package of proposals: for example, the most important institution of European democracy, the European Parliament, would be so impossible, my honourable pro-government Members, that they would now take away the right of citizens to choose MEPs directly, and this package is filled with similar proposals. We would like to smile at such impossible ideas if we hadn't learned during the last 12 years of fidesz governance that all these arrogant provocations were actually based on a plan, in fact, a depraved, cold-blooded political action plan. The government led by Fidesz has moved in this direction to lead Hungary out of the European Union. Why is that? Why is this happening now? There is no other outcome than the fact that Viktor Orbán has now become a burden, not an advantage, of EU membership. Over the past decade, when he had enjoyed himself in the Union, the reason was that his friends, fellow fighters, sometimes his family members and their companies, yes, the Mészáros, Tiborcz, Szíj and the other oligarchs, were massively skimming off the money from the Union, which would otherwise have to be received and achieved by Hungarian citizens. Now, when the rules of the game seem to have changed, you have to leave immediately. Let us note that, in addition to the three strikes on the part of the population today, the extra high inflation, the austerity package introduced by the government and the extra tax burdened on the population, the struggle with the EU and then the burden of exit will also affect the population economically, not you, my fellow Members of the Fidesz. This is something the political community of the Democratic Coalition will certainly not tolerate without saying a word, we are protesting here, now and again. That is why we have tabled an amendment to this particular package of proposals, because we need a strong Europe that does not abandon the Hungarian citizens, which provides a social Europe, and that is what you would be destroying. Then all you have to do is decide which is the greater sin: if a government pays its own disastrous economic policy in its entirety to the general public, or if the government, in contrast with the opinion of its citizens, is to drive the country out of the European Union. Decide which of the two sins to choose. One thing is certain: a legitimate government would not try to do any of these things, only by an illegitimate government that always considers its own interests stronger than the country... [[The president's gonna turn off the speaker's mic. Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-06-27-26	Honourable Congressman, You are obviously aware that you have once again crossed the written and unwritten framework of Parliament's house rules, so you will be treated accordingly later. Nevertheless, Mr Csaba Dömötör will respond to your speech, let us call it that. Before I give the floor, allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to pay tribute to Dr. Vuong Dinh Hue, President of the Vietnam National Assembly, Madam Excellency, and members of the delegation. [[Dr. Vuong Dinh Hue, standing in the box, thanks for the applause, and then all the members of the delegation stand up.]] Allow me to wish Mr President, ministers, State Secretarys and Members present as members of the delegation, effective negotiations and a pleasant stay in Budapest. Thank you for coming to our house. Now it's up to Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State.
u2022-06-27-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Let me start with a question first. If you're saying that parliament or government is illegal, then what are you doing here, then why are you running for office in an election? You know the answer: quite simply what you say is frivolous. On the issue of EU membership, we have said many times, and we say now: EU membership is a national interest; there was a referendum on this which obliges everyone. There is only one party who argued against EU membership, Jobbik, your ally, period. We stand by EU membership, but that does not mean that we do not raise our voice if we see a phenomenon that does not meet the interests of the country. We're at the negotiating table now, and we're gonna stand up for the country. For example, if they tell us to get closer to the war, we will tell them that this is a threat to the country's security. If, for ideological reasons, they try to hold back the money we owe, then we will tell them that this money, this support, is due to Hungary. Or if they are inventing that there should be a double increase in corporate tax in Hungary, we will say that this will result in the loss of jobs. We are not taking our policy out of expectations, not from the expectations of others, but from the interests of the country. As far as economic issues are concerned, I agree that we need to talk about this, also because war inflation is affecting Europe as a whole, not simply. You cannot say that the government has done nothing: we have introduced four price stops, we have extended the credit moratorium and the interest stop until the end of the year, until October the food stop and the gas stop, the government has also decided on an interim pension increase due to war inflation, which will go backwards until January, and it will also apply to the 13th month pension that we have returned, which you have otherwise rejected. It was also decided that 100,000 Hungarian small businesses could remain in the area of the reduction of the rent. Last year, by the way, the economy that you feel sorry for has grown by 7 percent, and we can expect significant growth again this year. This allows us to protect jobs, keep taxes low and maintain the family support system in its current diversity while maintaining the value of pensions. The left-wing parties, your party, the other left-wing parties have not helped this effort, and they are not helping it now. [[14.20]] That's more than anything else to show that the price stops didn't support the decision. They're said to be orbital scams, scams, bullshit, pretend action. These ratings have all been said by you. We recommend that you ask the Hungarian families, help them by the interest rate stop, which has managed to prevent the cancellations. Ask them how to help them to pay 480 forints instead of 700-800 forints. This means saving an average of 21,000 forints per month. Please ask them, it helps them to pay a reduced price at home instead of the energy prices in Western Europe. Of course, we do not know that they will be asked, but one thing is certain: we insist on these measures even if you do not give us any help. Aggravating circumstance, and here I am partly referring back to our debates with the EU, is that the entire left has joined the international campaign on the global minimum tax. We do not know who asked you to do this, but it doesn't really matter, because the introduction of this would mean that the tax levels of certain Hungarian companies should be doubled, and this threatens hundreds of thousands of jobs in Hungary, with the level of corporate tax in Hungary being one of the lowest in Europe right now. This would significantly reduce the competitiveness benefits of our country, and I will not say it again, because it is very important that many hundreds of thousands of Hungarian jobs are at risk. This proposal must be good for higher tax countries, it must be good for those regions of the world where they do not think about introducing such a tax, but it must be bad for Hungary. I can see that you don't care. So once again, when we see a phenomenon, the same thing: when faced with the dilemma of adapting to Hungarian interests or foreign expectations, they always focus on the latter, foreign expectations. They always choose the latter. If the whole thing had to be done, that would be a fixed two. But this is not about gambling, it is about the livelihood of Hungarians, the Hungarian economy and their future. We're not gonna let the left ruin this again. Thank you for listening. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties: That's right! Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-27-28	I now give the floor to KDNP's representative, Nacha Lőrinc. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-27-29	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Last week, the general debate on budget 2023 took place here in this House. Listening to a number of opposition contributions, it is quite clear that the left has now completely lost contact with reality, they have spoken according to the material published by DK's press department, and they have been talking about austerity, while again there is more access to all important areas next year. They are talking about austerity, while, if there was a government in Hungary that dealt with the crisis with austerity, it was you, my fellow Members. What did they say then? Don't worry, it won't hurt. Unfortunately, apart from you and your billionaire buddies, there was no one else to do so back then, 2008-2009. The austerity, ladies and gentlemen, was when you dealt with an economic crisis by abolishing the 13th month pension. The Gyurcsánys raised all taxes in the context of crisis management and imposed new taxes; 36 percent had the upper key of hers, now 15 percent uniformly. You have removed 16,000 active hospital beds and withdrawn 600 billion forints from health care, and even wanted to make it pay. There were 12 percent unemployment, hundreds of thousands left on the side of the road or humiliating aid. That was the austerity of Gyurcsány, when almost all the family support was taken from the Hungarian families. [[An intervention from the ranks of Fidesz: Shame!]] [[An intervention from the ranks of Fidesz: Shame!]] In that situation, what was your policy? The defences were dismantled and the energy prices were raised fifteen times, so ultimately the Hungarian families paid the highest prices in Europe. (An intervention from the ranks of Fidesz: Shame!) Just a few examples of your true austerity policy. There are no such items in the 2023 budget, honourable Members, because you do not govern them. There is no restriction, because thank God, the Hungarian people were able to delete this word from their dictionary 12 years ago. It must be seen that the situation is difficult all over the world, in Europe and in our country: a prolonged war, a failed Brussels sanctions policy, the aftermath of the Covid epidemic and the economic crisis. Therefore, the most important task for us now is to preserve Hungary's peace and security, and to ensure the country's energy supply and to protect the cost reduction. That is why we need a tight and disciplined budget, but as long as you've been saving on everyone, not on yourself and on your buddies, there is no austerity in the 2023 budget, but on public security, development of forces, support for families and the preservation of employment. Let's look at it in detail. In the following year, the 13th month's pension will remain and pensions will rise at the same rate as inflation. Tax incentives for family tax systems, women with at least four children and young people under 25 years of age will continue to contribute to the maintenance of family purchasing power. Family support is not limited, but we have also extended the exit funds. Family policy spending will increase by HUF 450 billion to HUF 3225 billion next year compared to this year. That's nearly three and a half times the last left budget with a bad memory. There's more security. It cannot be emphasized enough about the importance of this in times of war. Therefore, one of the priority areas of the 2023 budget is the development of forces and security. Over a year, more than 50 percent and 460 billion HUF more resources will be available in the area. Defence spending is increasing by more than six times compared to 2010. This will also allow NATO targets to be met next year. There is more to health, as next year around 2670 billion will be available. This is more than HUF 1470 billion higher than the last budget submitted by the left-wing government in 2010. Education expenditures are also increasing, the promised wage increases are continuing, and more is spent on children's meals, the textbook is free for everyone, and important national policy and church programs are moving forward, because there will always be resources for community building and faith life under the Fidesz-KDNP government. So this is the budget you claim to be untrue, which you are attacking. Understandably, because you like restrictions, you've always taken me away from families and people with wages and salaries. On the other hand, Fidesz-KDNP will continue to maintain the cost reduction, develop the army, support and support the Hungarian families and maintain high employment. And you continue to deny reality, until then we will work for the people, Hungary. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. Zoltán Vajda applauds.]]
u2022-06-27-30	I would like to suggest to my fellow Members at the House Committee that we discuss the next budget debate in an extended time frame, so that it may include all such speeches. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] Mr. Secretary of State has the floor. Here you go.
u2022-06-27-31	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, you are right when you point out that Europe is in a very difficult situation because of war and sanctions in Brussels, there are economic challenges, inflation, energy prices that are getting out of hand, and in such a situation, it is clear, correct and justified if the next budget is the budget for defence and public security. Especially if we consider that the Hungarian people made a clear decision on 3 April. Before 3 April, there were two roads before the Hungarian people and the country, and they made a clear decision: in the matter of war and peace, they chose peace, government and government parties, and thus the security of the country, and also in matters of debt reduction and economics, they supported the government and the government parties, they said yes to the reduction of the rent, and they said no to the abolition of the rent reduction, which was a left-wing intention. So there is a war, this House, in our neighbourhood, and if the Member has already spoken of a budget, it is obviously a fundamental condition for all purposes to guarantee the country's energy security and energy supply. We, I mean, the Hungarian government, have made our position clear: because of historical experience, we do not really believe in sanctions policy, but we supported EU sanctions measures to maintain unity. But we have made it clear that we do not give in to energy issues, which are a red line for us. Yet, first Brussels reached the oil issue and then the sanctioning of gas, at least to the point of that. We can remember that with regard to oil, we managed to achieve that pipeline transport is an exception, so Hungary's energy supply and the petrol stop continued to ensure that we protected it. I note only in parentheses that a fuel stop was introduced in Croatia outside the motorway, so there is no such thing on the motorway. Out of the highway, the price of fuel with a price cap is 700 HUF per litre. That's the fuel stop-limited price. Currently, the cheapest fuel supply in Europe is available in Hungary, and this means a large amount of HUF 10,000 per month for families or per tank. [[14.30]] After that, they were right in the first place, so the Hungarian Prime Minister said that it is dangerous to sanction energy because we will get to the gas. That's what happened. Now we've got gas on the table. I would like to say a few words about Germany, but we are talking about the largest and strongest economy in Europe. In Germany, Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Change Robert Habeck announced last week, specifically on 23 June, the announcement of the alert stage of the gas emergency plan, the so-called Alarmstufet, the step needed due to the disruption in gas supply and the tense gas market situation. Say that in Germany. The German Minister for Economic Affairs said that we are in a gas crisis if we do not yet feel it. Once again, the German Minister for Economic Affairs said that we are in a gas crisis if we do not yet feel it. German Finance Minister Lindner said that due to a strong rise in energy prices, supply chain problems and inflation, a very serious economic crisis can occur in Germany within a few weeks, within months, and three to four, perhaps five years. That is what the German leaders said, ladies and gentlemen. And then, without the need for completeness, the Belgian Prime Minister: if we do not prepare for winter together in the summer, then there is a great risk that we will face serious problems this winter. And then let me also bring you here that in Vienna, the district heating provider will raise your rate by 92 percent in the fall, because you said you had no choice. And then, as a closure, back to Germany, where the association of German cities and municipalities suggests that 18 degrees is sufficient in the apartments. So this proposal, and this is very much in line with the Timmermans proposal: we do not need to bathe so much and we do not need to wash so much; and with the proposal made by Péter Márki-Zay:, cheap energy, the reduction also leads to excessive consumption, we do not want to stop world market prices at the border, we need to feel the increase in energy prices, said the Left Prime Minister's candidate. On the other hand, the government is also doing everything in its power supply security and to protect the cost reduction. The winter is coming, they say in the known series: in a panic it's easy to talk about heating, in winter it'll be harder. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-06-27-32	I now give the floor to the representative of Fidesz, Szilárd Németh. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-27-33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, For many years, Hungarian utilities have been the most favourable in Europe. This is supported by the latest international price comparison of the Energy and Utility Regulatory Office in May, based on Eurostat data for 28 European capitals. In May, the average price of natural gas in Budapest was 2.75 euro cents per kilowatt hour, almost ten times in Amsterdam, six times in Prague and more than twice as much in Bratislava and Warsaw. In Romania, market liberalisation has led to the price of the cheapest gas and electricity to triple the price from one day to the next. The electricity retail price in Budapest is the second lowest. In the Hungarian capital there was 10.17 cents of electricity in May. Only in Belgrade did people pay less. In London, Rome, Vienna, electricity costs almost five times more than we do. In the meantime, as we have already heard, the cost of district heating is doubled, as the service provider increases tariffs by 92 percent, which is justified by the general increase in gas prices. In Germany, too, as Mr Secretary of State has already pointed out, Russian gas has decreased by 40%, i.e. Russian gas delivered to Germany, and on this basis the Minister for Economic Affairs, who, among other things, is a Vice Chancellor, has declared an alert stage for the gas supply crisis. Dear Parliament, We Hungarians will stay out of the war, but we cannot completely exclude ourselves from the effects of the war and the failed Brussels sanctions policy that triggers inflation and creates an economic crisis. The government's aim is to keep the price of energy affordable in Hungary without supply problems, and next year's budget is precisely that we can keep the overhead costs on the price level for the last ten years. In this war emergency, the Hungarian government focuses on the protection of the country and the security of the people. We cannot allow the Hungarian people to pay the price of the war. Without the four stop, the overhead, the gas price, the food price stop and the interest rate stop, inflation would be 6-7 percent higher in Hungary. In order to maintain this reduction, we must continue and work hard with Brussels, the large energy suppliers, the instigators of war and the domestic left in their wages. Dear Parliament, The reduction of the rent has been protecting the Hungarian families for ten years. Due to the sustainability of the budget cuts, we have created the Rezief Protection Fund in 2023, and next year we expect a payment of HUF 670 billion from the sectors that have invested extra profit as a result of the war in terms of common burden and greater social responsibility. The extra-profit tax paid to the Retirement Fund cannot be passed on to consumers. In addition, Ryanair Airlines has to acknowledge that no one in Hungary can exclude itself from the Hungarian legislation, no one can think that it is outside or out of the Hungarian law. Otherwise, you can expect a thorough examination and a harsh punishment. Dear Parliament, We also need to talk about the domestic left-wing policy. It is precisely those who have unleashed energy prices between 2002 and 2010. At a time when the world market price for gas has been steadily decreasing, foreign-owned operators in Hungary have been able to raise their money even more. Gyurcsány and Bajnai gave them all the Hungarian households. In eight years, the price of gas and electricity was raised 15 times. If the Gyurcsánys were on the government today, they would have to pay 565 HUF instead of the current retail gas price of 115 HUF per cubic metre, and the electricity price would be 143 instead of 37 HUF. Gas oil for 833 forints, gas for 779 instead of 480. It is therefore in national interest to maintain the reduction, and therefore we will fight all domestic and international attacks on the left and Brussels to protect the Hungarian families. Hungary, the interests of the Hungarian people, are our first priority. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-06-27-34	I give the floor to Mrs Zsófia Koncz, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2022-06-27-35	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Protecting Hungary's peace, security, energy supply and, of course, the reduction of overhead is a priority for the government. Due to the war situation in Ukraine and the failed sanctions in Brussels, there is an increasing international energy crisis that everyone must face, of course, but the government's position is quite clear in this situation, because we want the Hungarian people not to pay the price of the war. The government's protective measures still do not allow these runaway European electricity and gas prices to be faced by the domestic population, and as a result of the measures introduced since 2013, the government has remained at around HUF 2600 billion in total by the end of August 2021, i.e. they were able to save that much. The government has decided that we will continue to maintain a reduction in the costs for the population, and that we will also provide it to around 100,000 small businesses. It must therefore be said that the Hungarian people pay one of the lowest energy prices in Europe. If officially fixed prices were to cease, the price of electricity would increase by more than three times, the price of natural gas would increase by five and a half times, leading to a total increase of four and a half times for an average Hungarian family. A HUF 22,000 monthly bill would increase to HUF 101,000 a month, which would cost an average Hungarian household more than HUF 948 thousand per month. [[14.40]] Now, war and sanctions have skyrocketed energy prices, and the government has had to make a decision in this extraordinary situation. As mentioned today, this is why we introduced four stop policies: resistop, fuel stop, interest stop and food price stop. As the Member pointed out, it is a very important question, however, how the government decides in such a difficult situation. It should not really be forgotten that, before 2010, the left-wing government has raised the prices 15 times, and I think it is a very important decision that, in such a situation, a government who stands up for national interests without compromise. And because of this, there are such energy prices in Hungary today. It has also been said today that predictability means extending the gas stop and the food stop until 1st October, and by the end of the year we want the interest stop and the credit moratorium, and a budget that takes account of the results achieved and the safety of families and Hungarian people, while the economy can continue to grow. To this end, we have introduced and created the Rezief Protection Fund and the Defence Fund. The government will continue to do its utmost to help small businesses, and to this end, it will maintain the reduction of the rent for around 100,000 small businesses. Obviously, the aim is to help small companies and to maintain them in the future, to stay on their feet with support, and to ensure that families and workers work there as well. According to the government's decision, as of 1 August 2022, some 100,000 micro-enterprises will continue to obtain electricity and gas at reduced prices, which are already buying energy at universal service prices. In addition, natural gas and electricity can be provided at a reduced retail price in the case of local government rentals, as well as in the case of public rentals and shelters, for the use of real estate residents. The question of fuel prices has already been discussed here. What we really need to say is that it was also due to the proper representation of Hungarian interest that we were able to achieve that, compared to the record price of fuel in Europe, today we have a uniform HUF 480, which is the cheapest in Europe. Practically with the petrol stop, due to the constantly increasing prices, it is possible to save up to HUF 16,000 per gas tank for Hungarian families. And these measures will also help us to ensure that runaway war inflation in our country is lower by 5-6 percent than it is today. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] without these measures. The government remains committed to reducing costs and ensuring energy supply. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-27-36	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2022-06-27-37	Dear Parliament, Bence Tuzson, Fidesz; János Bencze, Jobbik; László Varju, DK; Zoltán Varga, DK; Balázs Barkóczi, DK; Andrea Hegedüs, DK; Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik; Brenner Koloman, Jobbik. Máté Kanász-Nagy, LMP; Rebekah Szabó, Dialogue; István Szabadi, Mi Hazank; Imre Komjáthi, MSZP; Ferenc Gelencsér, Momentum; Zoltán Sas, Jobbik; Gergely Arató, DK; István Simicskó, KDNP; Lajos Kósa, Fidesz. Lóránt László Keresztes applied for a speech after the agenda tomorrow, LMP. Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; László Varju, DK.
u2022-06-27-38	Ladies and gentlemen, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. In view of the fact that the designated Committee on Foreign Affairs decided to hold a detailed debate at today's meeting, today's session will not be held with T/287 on the publication of an Air Transport Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the State of Qatar, of the other part. Final vote of bill No 1. Dear House, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I note that the visible majority of this House has adopted the agenda. Now, at 2:46 p.m., we're moving to interpellation negotiations. I would ask my fellow Members, who have things to do elsewhere, to leave the Chamber quietly and quickly. [[Noise. Several Members leave the room.]] (Sunning: 14.46 14.48) President: István Jakab Note: Dr. Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Szűcs)
u2022-06-27-39	Dear Parliament, My fellow Members, please take your seats, we will continue our work. [[Noise.]] Dear Parliament, I thank you for your understanding, please take your seats. [[More noise.]] Dear Parliament, Kálmán Olga, a representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance: It's an address. In response to this interpellation, Prime Minister János Csák, who is responsible for culture and innovation, has been tasked with. Secretary of State Eszter Vitalyos responds to the interpellation on behalf of Minister. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2022-06-27-40	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Madam Secretary! Dear House, What's here isn't a reduction in overhead, it's an increase in overhead. [[István Szilárd Németh: Ayyy!]] The brutal, constrictive Orbán package certainly increases every single Hungarian regime, making Hungarian families impossible and inseparable. [[14.50]] Imagine the situation that is happening in a lot of places these days, in the weeks. The family gets together and they try to figure it out, farm it, plan how much they can make, and they can go on vacation this year. And most families are going to conclude that they won't be able to afford it this year. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: That's not true!]] There's gonna be people crying about how they're gonna tell the kid. Madam Secretary, if someone went to the beach, do you know that this year they have to pay at least a thousand forints more than last year? Who's gonna stay home, Dad or Mom? Who's to blame for that? Is it György Soros, who teaches you, Gyurcsány or some other international power? I'm sure you know the answer. I know. It is the Orbán government that is to blame for this shameful situation, which is not a reduction in overhead, but an increase in overhead. [[Interview from Fidesz: Why are you reading this?]] A summer day care camp, do you know how much it costs a child? 50-80,000 forints for a child at daycare camp for five days. If we count on three children and some pocket money, that's 250,000 forints. For a quarter of a million forints, our kids can go to daycare camp. So after 13 years of power, who's to blame? I know they'll say it's the Gyurcsány government! [[Intruder from Fidesz: That's right! Defiance from DK's ranks.]] Madam Secretary, you know that a long weekend we're talking about a regular Zimmer Frei. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] 200,000 forints, and they hadn't eaten, hadn't had a drink, and hadn't organized any kind of joint program with the families. The Balaton is now priceless for the multitude of Hungarian families, and for those who start it, this is a fee increase. You always bang your boobs by protecting the Hungarian families. You know what they're protecting him from? Right now, it's just so they can go on vacation. I understand that Fidesz-KDNP politicians are completely insensitive to these problems. I also understand that the billionaire's politicians, pals and buddies are preparing for yachting, helicoptering and luxury trips. They're easy to plan. He told the forint crisis that the Prime Minister was still in opposition to the change of government. Well, I think you should consider it. Minister, Secretary of State, DK's proposals, its proposals to reduce the costs, please consider giving the families 100,000 forints, rent, but if not, please respond to why they are not giving them to the people. Is it because DK suggested it? Thank you. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2022-06-27-41	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats in the Chamber. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Eszter Vitalyos responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2022-06-27-42	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I was particularly pleased when you took political action, because television editors are expected to be prepared and consistent. [[Péter Cseresnyés: But not in his case!]] I was confident that you, as a politician, would do such a job. I am sorry to hear, however, that none of your interpellation shows up, either preparedness or consistency. You know, there's an old card game called fake. Anyone who doesn't know it, it's about upside-down cards being said about something that the others either believe or don't believe, and nobody sees the cards. Your fellow factions have mastered this game in Hungarian political life between 2002 and 2010. That's where it went wrong when your current boss Ferenc Gyurcsány accidentally showed his cards in 2006 in Autumn. Do you know who put him on the edge? You! You said in the studio of ATV that Ferenc Gyurcsány lied to this country, and now we see that you have joined the ranks of those who have been trying to play the same game with Hungarian people since then, especially if it is somehow about Lake Balaton. You've said a lot of things about the burning price, the free beaches, and then it always turns out what you're saying isn't true. They claimed that no one could afford a vacation in Balaton, while in recent years tourism traffic there has made a record every year. Last week's Telex article, Telex! The number of Hungarians who are going on holiday has increased compared to the last year before the corona virus in 2019. You said today that you will have to pay 200,000 HUF for a long weekend in July-August for the booking of a room for the average Hungarian family. Well, according to one of the largest accommodation search portals, two nights for two adults and two children can be reached with breakfast from 72 thousand forints, also three nights for two adults and three children from 102 thousand forints. That's half of what you're saying, counting three children and three nights. Telex also writes that the amount spent in Hungary has increased from HUF 169 thousand to HUF 301 thousand. [[Kálmán Olga: Address please!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I am sure that some people have difficulty on family holidays, but in 12 years we have created 1 million new jobs against you, the financial assets of Hungarian households in 2010 were 30 000 billion, 12 years later 70 000 billion forints. Today, the minimum wage is higher than the average wage in your day. They can't lie about it, they're clearly visible, the changes and the ease that people perceive. Even if you try to blame the government for everything, there is war inflation all over the world today and a war economic crisis. There's only one way to do this, and that's peace. Play with your cards open. You're not interested in peace, you're interested in discrediting the government. However, the situation is already different with open cards, honourable Member, because Hungarian families today have HUF 4000 billion in taxes and contributions, which they can spend on rest if they want to. You can see that what you took, we gave it back. That's the 13th month's pension. It is also apparent that our country protects the results of the reduction of the rent and the Hungarian families. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Instead of alarming, please wish those who are preparing for Lake Balaton or other parts of the country a pleasant holiday to spend their free time. We have been and continue to work to ensure that everyone has a well-deserved rest, because, as in everything, we are in favour of Hungarian families. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-27-43	I thank the Secretary of State for her reply. I'll ask Congresswoman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor in a minute.
u2022-06-27-44	Madam Secretary, I knew you would read from the paper that everything here is fantastic, everything is brilliant, everything is super good, and the whole family, the whole of Hungary, thinks they have never lived so well. I think the fake card game has been known to the whole country for the past 12 years, but it's not called a card game in Hungary, it's supposed to be government, the Orbán government's activity, that's a big fake. When you tell us to believe our eyes, let's believe the KSH that we have 10 percent inflation and 30-40. [[Eszter Vitályos: Yesterday's results, dear Congresswoman!]] The bullshit is that you're telling me that the families spent 160,000, and now they've spent 300, you know what your name is? It's inflation! Yeah, what may have come out of 160,000 last year is now coming out of 300,000. It's quite amazing that you, the Orbán government, are responsible, and whatever you want to fake, it's not a reduction in overhead, it's an increase in overhead. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2022-06-27-45	Thank you. Dear Parliament, In the words of the Member, I took the view that she would not accept the Secretary of State's reply. [[Kálmán Olga: You got it right!]] So I would like to inform you that, according to our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our sitting today. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office: It's dangerous! It's an address. By answering the interpellation, the Prime Minister appointed Mr.Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, who is competent and competent according to the subject. At the request of the Minister, Deputy Minister Levente Magyar responds to the interpellation. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Carpát. Here you go.
u2022-06-27-46	Mr President, Dear House, In recent years, the theme of migration in Parliament has been largely suspended until the Fidesz-KDNP found a new theme for electoral campaigns. I was very pleased at the fact that many of us agreed here in this House, perhaps even with Mr State Secretary, that the organised introduction, admission from outside to Hungary could not solve any social, economic or social problems in any way. That's why I'm confused about the government's previous 2021/407. Before the Government decree of 3 Article 2 (1) and (1) of the Treaty states the nine countries, Mr Secretary of State, including exotic countries, with which they have concluded, so to speak, cooperation agreements with regard to facilitating the import of organised labour. [[15.00]] This includes the Philippines, the Republic of Indonesia, the Republic of Kazakhstan, Mongolia and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. Mr State Secretary, with a salad law this year, the gates will be opened up to the migrant workers concerned, which is very harsh because in the annex we can also see the posts they want to bring people from Vietnam and Kazakhstan. Here, from the carpenter to the trained physical worker, there are a lot of things, including the restaurant worker, the meat processor and the IT technician. It is clear, then, that you have a serious plan, and the number of work permits issued, in some areas, tripled, suggests that you are implementing a long-term programme. Now, perhaps Fidesz-KDNP cannot deny that the number of migrant workers in Hungary is increasing above 100,000. I'd like to warn you and warn you that this is how it always started. This is how it began in Germany, where appropriate. The fact that you enter into a strategic agreement with temporary employment companies and then facilitate their organised imports of labour allows you to draw another conclusion, that you are not planning any kind of programme for those who were forced to enter Western Europe only because of higher salaries, to other countries. So I'm wondering if they still have any plans. We can see that young people in charge of the patriotic program may have emigrated abroad, but it would be very cheap to joke about it. I'm much more interested in having a housing program for those involved. Furthermore, it is a clear question that if you are not only ITist, but also organised in carpentry to import masses from the third world to Hungary, why don't you give a helping hand in the form of free re-trainings to the 100 thousand, otherwise not a sack wall, who are in need of inactive people, but also a job-seeker, who have slipped out of all kinds of state aid in Europe's narrowest unemployment care system. These three questions therefore call for clear answers. We're waiting on the government's friendly position. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-06-27-47	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Deputy Minister Levente Magyar responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2022-06-27-48	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I understand, of course, that it is the opposition's duty, its duty at all times, to attack the government on all matters. At the same time, it is strange when it is because of low unemployment. The situation that you are referring to is that there are shortages in Hungary today, there are a large number of job vacancies, due to the fact that the successful economic policy of the last 12 years has brought about a situation that Hungary has not experienced since the change of regime, and never before in its modern economic history, namely that there has been virtually full employment in this country. Statistical figures obviously show a few percent unemployment, but everyone who lives in this country, who works in this country, who uses services in this country, knows exactly what an acute labour shortage there is in some areas. There has clearly been a demand market, thank God, this is a welcome development, as in the past Hungarians have experienced it several times, at least twice, only in the past generation, otherwise as a result of the wrong and wrong economic policies of left-wing governments, what it is like to face the horror of mass unemployment. There are few more devastating phenomena in a society in a moral and material sense, such as unemployment, especially if it takes the mass scale it took in the 1990s, when the country was torn apart by the regime change and the total failure of previous years and decades' economic policy, and the total consequence of the failed government policy prior to the 2008 economic crisis, and the country's most acute problem and challenge was that hundreds of thousands of people were without work. This situation has now been addressed and a demand market has been developed in the labour market, which is better than having a supply market and having a difficult location. Honourable Congressman, A series of European countries have chosen a different solution than Hungary. You have also mentioned the Western model that says that citizens who are willing to settle in Europe in the hope of work and a better life should be brought in in bulk. Hungary has not set foot on this path, it has very consciously avoided this path, as its action against mass migration in 2015 and its continued defence has pointed out. There are countries in Central Europe, for example, look at the example of our Visegrád partners, which have chosen the way to see Ukraine import a very large amount of labour from neighbouring countries which are basically east of us. Long before the Russian-Ukrainian conflict started, nearly 2 million Ukrainian migrant workers had already worked in Poland, more than half a million in the Czech Republic and nearly 100 thousand in Slovakia, and this is more than many times per person, more precisely than the number of Ukrainian migrant workers working in Hungary. Hungary has also avoided this path, precisely to fill the labour shortage situation in the economy with its own workforce capacity. But there's a limit to that. There are situations where the capacity of a country is not sufficient to keep pace with economic development. That is why we have taken the strategic decision to bring to Hungary the spatial and time limits of residence in a third country in order to maintain the economic competitiveness of Hungarian families, with a specific focus only on specific situations of lack of labour, for a definite period of time, very strictly, in order to maintain the economic competitiveness of Hungarian families, because economic growth is only possible if the jobs are fully filled. This is what this series of measures is for the benefit of the Hungarian people. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-27-49	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman to accept the answer. You have the floor.
u2022-06-27-50	Mr President, Dear House, I don't envy Mr. Secretary of State for the forced explanation. Secretary of State, do you have to bring hundreds of thousands of workers from the third world? You have just said, in explaining that Ukrainian mass labour imports are not, and Indonesian and Vietnamese are, for economic development. If that were the case, they would use motivations to lure people who are forced to work abroad and reach out to those who want to work in the form of free retraining, but can't. In the meantime, we also see that when Indonesian cashiers and Vietnamese maids are imported into Hungary, they do not necessarily encounter reality. You're doing this on the basis of the announcements of multi-company companies, because they're hitting on certain industries that they think there's a shortage of workers here. The Government of Hungary does not do deep drilling either, but believes this and organizes the imported labour force for them in bulk. Therefore, this response is unacceptable, as is the behaviour of the government in this regard. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-06-27-51	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our sitting today. Dear Parliament, Representative Anna Russian, Member of the Momentum, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Technology and Industry:, Southern Körvasítás és V0. What are the government's plans? It's an address. It's for Congresswoman Anna of Russia.
u2022-06-27-52	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, As Minister of Innovation and Technology László Palkovics emphasized the strategic importance of the construction of the V0, i.e. the railway line avoiding Budapest, even in the previous cycle. According to a previous promise from the Government, the railway ring should have been built by 2017 and the latest feasibility study of the ITM promises the target date of implementation by 2030. Meanwhile, the rail investment closely linked to V0, the expansion of the southern circular railway, was won by the V-bridge, which belonged to Lőrinc Mészáros's interest, in a highly overpriced tender, in a single-player procurement procedure. However, the expansion of the southern circular railway is problematic not only because of its cost, but also because it involves unnecessary environmental destruction in NewBuda, where I am an individual constituency representative. During the extension of the track, more than a thousand trees will be cut off along the Hamzsabégi Road Promenade, where more than 15,000 people have their homes, and the noise, vibration and dust associated with the construction will make these people's homes unlivable for years. Meanwhile, on the basis of all publicly available information, the primary objective of the investment is to increase the freight capacity of the circular railway, contrary to what the government communicates about increasing passenger capacity. [[15.10]] The development of V0 in the long term, you know that it will be an inevitable investment in order for rail freight to run smoothly in Hungary. The European Union is also seeking to replace road freight transport by rail. If V0, it would also be possible to protect the homes and inhabitants of the New Buda people from unnecessary environmental costs associated with the expansion of the southern circular railway, because it would be essential to invest only in the development of passenger transport. You may agree with me that the NewBudans deserve a responsible and active government [[Bence Rétvári: Or congressman!]] , which does not destroy it with an unthinkable, wasteful and environmentally damaging investment in Annex XI. The most important green corridor in the district. So I'm asking you to stop it and rethink the investment of the southern circular railway and speed up the construction of the V0. My questions are as follows. Firstly, the draft budget law for next year does not reveal any details on the progress of the southern circular railway, so my question is what their plans are for next year on this and what resources are available for the project's implementation. My second question concerns V0: what schedule is currently expected for the implementation of V0? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And my third question is that you're willing to think about separating passenger and freight traffic. [[The president's ringing again.]] In the interest of making the southern circular road much cheaper, they can protect more than 15,000 newbuda's green and liveable homes and the green environment.
u2022-06-27-53	Congresswoman! He's out of his time frame. Excuse me.
u2022-06-27-54	Thank you for the floor. I'm just finishing up. [[Let's hear it for Momentum and Dialogue.]]
u2022-06-27-55	Thank you. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Zsófia Koncz responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2022-06-27-56	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The government is committed to achieving modern, competitive rail transport, which meets the needs of citizens. Since 2010, significant resources have been mobilised to modernise fixed-track infrastructure and vehicle stock. Policy efforts will also focus on green and energy-efficient railways over the next 10-15 years. We also support the development of clean transport in order to protect nature and achieve our first climate neutrality goal. In order to ensure a high quality service for passengers, the strategic objective is to achieve a modern, accessible fleet of vehicles and to reduce the average age of railway vehicles. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to inform you that the southern circular line and the V0 freight line are not alternatives to each other, not closely related investments, so I do not propose to put the two lines with different functions in the same place. It should be noted that the aim of the V0 rail development is specifically to assist the transport of goods, while the capacity building under the southern circular railway is to increase passenger capacity. The primary aspect of the draft southern circular railway is that the development is the least disturbing to the inhabitants and the least burden on the environment. The development of the southern circular railway is a green and climate protection investment, which will reduce car traffic from the agglomeration, mainly in South Budapest. If some of the people currently arriving by car then drive the trains of the southern circular railway, then CO2 emissions can be reduced by about 7,000 tonnes per year, not to mention other positive impacts. After the construction, the Hamzsabeg park will be arranged and extended in both directions, along the tracks along the Buda side with a green corridor for pedestrians and cyclists; the noise load of residents will also be reduced. In addition to the new track and modern noise protection, freight wagons equipped with so-called silent brakes will be able to travel, which I think is very important to highlight. At the same time, the government will continue to prepare and plan the V0. The freight rail line is completed south of Budapest, partly on the trail of existing railway lines and in other sections as a completely new investment. Coming from Kecskemét, it crosses the Danube on a new bridge between Kunszentmiklós and Dunaújváros, from there it opens new connections to Székesfehérvár and Győr. The purpose of the construction of railway line V0 is to significantly reduce rail freight traffic in the capital and its catchment area, in addition to connecting the main freight corridors in eastern and transdanubia. The main aim of the railway programme is to make Hungary a freight transport, logistics and distribution centre in Central Europe. The Hungarian government is committed to rail development and, of course, it also requires professionals. If you'll allow me, let me give you a personal example: this weekend I could take part in the inauguration of nearly two hundred children's train between the ages of 10 and 14. It was very good to see the future generation coming, and many of them will become transport experts. I think it is very, very important to highlight this for these purposes. I ask you and your party to support the development of the railway, so I ask you to accept my answer. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-27-57	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. I will ask the congresswoman to accept the Secretary of State's reply; she has one minute at her disposal.
u2022-06-27-58	Thank you for your answer. My problem is that this answer gives me further questions. For example, I do not understand why, if the government is so committed to building V0, the procurement procedure for the feasibility study withdrawn by the NIF has not been reversed. Or if everything is so well in green terms with the development of the southern circular railway, how is it possible that thanks to the civilians, the Metropolitan Tribunal has destroyed the environmental license of the southern circular railway. In recent years, the government has been communicating in a mess about the development of this railway, and this keeps the more than 15,000 New Buda residents who live along the Hamzsabégi promenade in uncertainty and who are trying to make them believe that a three- and four-track railway line will be quieter and greener than a two-track railway line, which is an obvious lie. I very much hope that the government will be reasonable, and that the 21st century will be effective. In line with the climate situation of the century [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] will take decisions on this issue. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Momentum and Dialogue.]]
u2022-06-27-59	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I felt that the congresswoman would not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our sitting today. Dear Parliament, Ágnes Kunhalmi and Sándor Szabó, representatives of the MSZP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Interior: It's an address. Mr Sándor Szabó has the floor.
u2022-06-27-60	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Unfortunately, the situation of Hungarian teachers has long been a central issue of Hungarian public education. Low salaries, lack of financial appreciation, are one of the decisive reasons for leaving the track, the increase in the age of teachers. The government also knows this, and it is no coincidence that at the international press conference after the elections, Viktor Orbán said that what we have undertaken must be done. We agreed that this year, the following year and the following year, there would be a 10 percent wage increase for teachers. At the committee hearing, the Minister of the Interior said otherwise, and he said that he would not promise anything, but he would keep it. Later, he stressed that teachers should also be happy that this year there will be no withdrawal at all. In the meantime, inflation is accelerating, reaching 10.7 percent in May, and the rise in food prices exceeded 18%. Thus, the teacher's wage increase has become null and void, and even in the event of further price increases, the real value of their salary is reduced, despite the government's argument that there has been an improvement in this respect compared to 2010. After all, if we look at that period, that year, after the global crisis, the budget has spent 5.5 percent of GDP on education, this year's direction is 3.6 percent, and next year, even less, as we see the budget, 3.5 percent compared to GDP. Thus, next year, the increase will not reach 200 billion HUF. Some data show that education, as well as health care, social care or pension payments, has not been a priority for the Fidesz government over the past 12 years. The increase in expenditure in these areas was well below GDP growth. A negative result in the field of education is that it is clear that at present 16,000 teachers are missing from the system, and there are vacancies in large cities and even in Budapest. In this situation, a one-time, radical, 50 percent wage increase would be extremely important. The government should not hold Brussels or the opposition responsible for this failure, but should do everything possible to give Hungary access to the funds due to our country from the Restoration Fund, which would allow for a transfer of funds in the budget, which could also provide funding to the teachers' wage increase. For this purpose, we could also use the additional revenue from the global minimum tax. [[15.20]] For this reason, I ask, Mr Secretary, what are you doing to increase the share of education expenditure within GDP noticeably; what can you promise the teachers next year; what are they doing to improve their living conditions, not continue mass leavings, and once again to attract teachers, teachers or kindergarten teachers; do you think it is appropriate to catch up teachers' wages to the level of average graduating wages? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the lines of DK, Momentum, Dialogue and MSZP.]]
u2022-06-27-61	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The interpellation will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. You have the floor.
u2022-06-27-62	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think that raising educators' wages is an issue with which all good people agree at all times, all opposition and pro-government representatives in all parliaments, if they speak, agree with other fellow Members. However, it was very strange for me that you brought up as an example the crisis management period for your own governance in 2008-2009, the period when you took a month's wages from teachers, and you referred to this as a positive crisis management period, that you should do it now, because those were the good rates, those were the good rates. We do not want to deal with the crisis as you did, because you did not reduce the negative effects of the crisis, but increased it, and did not pay the price for it themselves, but you used the borrowings at the time to fill the remaining one and a half years of your cycle, so you took out loans to remain in power, but you made people pay the price of their remaining in power, among other things, for teachers when 15,000 of the teachers were dismissed. You said you needed 10,000 teachers right now, so you've dismissed 15,000, honourable Member, so if you hadn't, maybe we'd be moving forward now. [[Sándor Szabó intervenes.]] Those who remain and who have lost a month's wages, honourable Member. You say that from next year's draft budget, you have read that only HUF 200 billion will increase the amount of costs or budget items that can be spent on education. Well, I think that from those who have reduced the items that can be spent on education, since they have taken wages from teachers, to miss the fact that in a crisis period there is only so much growth, well, I think that this is very disreputable and unreputable. But there is indeed growth, because next year we are going to increase the wages of teachers again, as you have said this year, and we will increase the wages of teachers in the coming year, as we are not going to take away from people in a difficult period of the world economy, but are trying to provide them with greater life security. There is no doubt that with the 7.1 percent increase in GDP, there was indeed a record high GDP growth in the previous years. But what do you do where you have a choice or at least a chance to participate? What does your party presidential candidate, István Ujhelyi, say about the sources from which Hungary would like to raise teachers' wages among other things? What are you going to do about it? Are you helping us get these, our own resources, or are you preventing us from getting our own resources? It is not too difficult to come up with an answer, but let me read to you your own party candidate: the application of the rule of law mechanism will also accelerate, the European Parliament has adopted a decision repeating the previous parliamentary call to the European Commission to apply the rule of law mechanism without delay. But it is not alone in Brussels, István Ujhelyi, because Klára Dobrev also said that rules that rule out anti-democratic governments should finally be adopted! the use of Union funds. This is why you are working to exclude Hungary from the use of EU funds [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] of which we would like to make a teacher's wage increase at home, honourable Member. You are working against teachers in Brussels. They are in opposition here, and in more and more municipalities last Sunday, they are becoming more and more repressed, but they are in Brussels. [[Rebecca Szabó intervenes.]] [[Rebecca Szabó intervenes.]] , they listen more to your voice and you are working to exclude Hungary from the use of EU funds (Zebey Szabó intervenes). and what the government is planning to do is not to be small, but to raise teachers' wages in the order of hundreds of billions of forints. If you are really concerned about the wages of teachers, you really want to do something to make more money for teachers, at least do not prevent the Hungarian government from turning its development resources into teacher wage development in Brussels, and do not do the two-faced attitude of demanding more teachers' wages at home, and in Brussels, prevent the funding of teachers' wages for Hungary [[The president's ringing the bell.]] may be used. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-27-63	Thank you very much for the Deputy Minister's reply. I'll ask the congressman if he'll take the answer. You have the floor.
u2022-06-27-64	Secretary of State, I hope you don't mean what you just said in hindsight. [[Bence Rétvári: Yes!]] That we would prevent anything from happening in Brussels. [[Bence Rétvári: I read it!]] [[Bence Rétvári: I read it!]] Yeah, I liked to read, but, uh, I guess you really don't mean that. (Bence Rétvári: I read it!) That's one thing. The second thing is that it is factual that left-wing governments spent more of their GDP before 2010 and I said that for education than the current government is going to spend this year or even next year. It's pretty boring that you're still pointing back after 13 years of government. [[Bence Rétvári: You said it was good!]] And by the way, it's your responsibility to govern. By the way, this proves exactly that neither teachers, health workers, social workers, or law enforcement workers, and I could still tell you whose situation they couldn't solve in 13 years, and that's why they're constantly pointing back. It's kind of pathetic. Mr. Secretary. Do your job, steer, you have the responsibility, 13 years of government behind you. I can't accept the answer. Thank you. [[Applause in the lines of DK, Momentum, Dialogue and MSZP.]]
u2022-06-27-65	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our sitting today. Dear Parliament, István Apáti, representative of Mi Hazank, submitted an interpellation to the finance minister: -Why do they want to end a success story? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-06-27-66	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The specific tax on small-tax companies is one of the few success stories of the last 12 years. Each year, much more tax revenue came from it than was planned in advance, and another proof of success is that 460 thousand Hungarians are currently taxed according to the rules of the catalog, 426 thousand of which are self-employed, 108 thousand of our compatriots catatose in side jobs, and this also means that, on average, four people, a family with an average of four people, the Hungarians with a population of between 400,000 and 1 million 800 thousand, provide a full livelihood in the Katács activity or contribute significantly to the income side of the family cash register. Yet, in recent weeks, you have created a completely uncertain situation, from the date of termination to the major amendment without termination, with great uncertainty and distrust in this regard to the Ministry of Finance. I would like to point out that the Hungarian Movement stands by the Katás entrepreneurs at their full breast width, and, of course, we are not only talking in the air, we are fighting, but we also have concrete proposals. The current annual turnover ceiling of HUF 12 million should not be increased to 18 million, but to at least 24 million in one step. We continue to believe that the limit of a paying agent's commission fee, labour fee or income of 3 million should be raised to at least HUF 6 million, and that the rate of tax above this rate should be reduced from 40 per cent to at least 15 per cent, although it would be best to remove this revenue restriction, as in the current crisis conditions this would constitute a pointless restriction, and besides, the annual limit of HUF 250 000 per month is an annual limit of 3 million, I believe that in today's circumstances it is extremely low, and therefore unjustified to limit Katács entrepreneurs. Then it was not clear what you are planning to do with those katás entrepreneurs, and I have just indicated that there are 108 000 who are engaged in a full-time employment activity. We do not know what they plan to do with the activities, and in such an overview, it is very common that according to the reasonable considerations that should remain in it, they take out what really does not belong there and leave it in the field of activity. So the following questions arise in this regard, Mr Secretary of State. Which, in particular, do you plan to impose restrictions on what areas of activity? Are you planning to abolish this tax at all, or is it just a major change of tax? Is a tax increase planned beyond the level of rational valorisation? And in what direction do they even want to take the katás regulation? We have laid out our cards, Mr. Secretary of State, please do the same and inform the general public, the taxpayers, what their plan is for this truly successful tax system. I look forward to your substantive answers. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-06-27-67	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Deputy Minister András Tállai responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2022-06-27-68	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Let's put the numbers back together. So, as far as we know, there are 248 thousand private-time 144,000 and cataclysmic shutdown companies, 69 thousand, and if you look at the numbers in this way, then the problem you have raised will be halved, because in fact, the change ahead of us is for the 248 thousand full-time cataclysm. That's one part of it. [[15.30]] The second is to allow a political comment that, when we introduced the Kata, you did not support the introduction of this type of tax, now that we want to introduce it or amend it, and now you support it as a Hazank. This thing is okay with us politically, we're glad that they admitted it took ten years for the government to do something good in terms of taxation. Let's look at the substance. I cannot provide specific information on the amendments to the Kata because no decision has yet been taken. There is a professional debate with interest representatives, chambers and businesses on how and how the transformation should take place. The transformation must preserve its achievements, the low administration, the whitening effect of the economy, and must remain a fair tax burden for those remaining in this system. But it is also a fact that there have been a number of problems with Katát voters, since recently these groups have also chosen this form of taxation, for which there has been a major reduction in the public burden, and this was the only aspect. The aim was to use and choose this method by companies and self-employed people typically providing services to private individuals when introducing the kata. However, in recent times, many people have also used it to replace employment. This is a competitive disadvantage for employers, since they have less public space for the state. Even though it was difficult for the 2021 restrictions, it did not achieve the required results. It should also be borne in mind that, in addition to paying the low public burden, these people will certainly have a low pension. Or don't give me, God, it's worth something, and you'll have to go on sick leave, and you'll get a low pension. Taking these aspects into account, it is necessary to amend the kata system. We don't want to eliminate it. Businesses who carry out their activities in accordance with the original purpose must continue to be subject to the form of taxation already mentioned. As I said, the negotiations are in progress, we welcome everyone's proposal to make a reasonable change to the kata, so, of course, we are happy to accept your proposal or your proposal, and, if possible, we will integrate it into future changes. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-27-69	Thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Deputy Minister's reply. You have the floor.
u2022-06-27-70	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Although the last sentence was quite friendly, which I thank you for, but I can't accept the answer, because I was working on the data I received from interest representatives, it is showing double numbers compared to what you mentioned. But if you are right, then, let's say, between 200,000 and 900 thousand Hungarians are significantly affected by their livelihoods. Even with the possibility of halving, the fate of such an entrepreneur is not insignificant. On the other hand, as I mentioned earlier, a certain increase based on the principle of valorisation may be able to accept a certain circle of entrepreneurs, and the problems that you mentioned, if you wish, can be addressed. It is possible to pay higher rates in several bands, for example, in the case of taxable persons before retirement, either voluntarily or in a compulsory manner; real abuses can be eliminated by the screening of activities and the launching of truly inappropriate activities. But don't let the bath water spill the whole kindergarten, let alone the baby, and practically everyone, including those whose only hope is the cat. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] And if they don't get this, they're gonna leave the country. That can't be their goal, so I can't accept the answer. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-06-27-71	Dear Parliament, The congressman did not accept the Deputy Minister's reply. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision was taken today at our meeting. Dear Parliament, Rebeka Szabó, a representative of the Dialogue, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:. Why is Balaton taken from us? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2022-06-27-72	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking you, do you think everything's okay at Lake Balaton? The area of reeds is growing, and tourist investments are based on the needs of residents and average tourists? Last year, a ministerial commissioner was appointed to protect the wildlife of Lake Balaton, but the question of what he had done for the lake in one year was not really answered. In any case, I'll answer: I don't think anything's right at Lake Balaton. The lake once belonged to all of us, anyone and anywhere could cool down in the water, enjoying the beauty of Lake Balaton. Today, this world is disappearing, family members of fidesz politicians, oligarchs near NER are constantly building up the lake, causing serious environmental damage and keeping people away from the water. If you're not a luxury tourist, you get more and more difficult access to the lake and the waterfront. Continuous integration of the Lake Balaton. The state finances the destruction, in which the municipalities are often partners, when they reclassify or sell the land to entrepreneurs near Fidesz. These constructions do not serve the average person, so cheaper campsites disappear, even getting ashore in some settlements is hard enough without paying. They line up the cranes on the beach, build the expensive new hotels, apartment houses. Ports are being built, artificially keeping water levels high, which is harmful to reeds. All in order to benefit luxury yachts. Unfortunately, nature protection and water quality are of no interest to anyone, the authority is almost decorated, environmental licensing is partial, in fact, I think it is a joke where it is at all. Investors order environmental impact assessments. All we need to do is think about the hotel, the building line designed to replace the former Club Aliga, which they want to build on the high shore, which means the destruction of the special natural treasure and the beautiful view, by the way, I think it's an outrageous plan. If there is no official investigation, in many cases the compliance with the local construction regulations is not controlled at all or a ridiculously low fine is imposed if an irregularity is detected. A sad example of this is the installation of Tihany, the kindergarten section, which is a national park area, should be there for vineyards and small press houses, compared to this there is an irregular fork on every plot. I could tell by evening how many rules these huge buildings are breaking, where instead of wine cellars we find hundreds of square meters of luxury villas, squarestones, and pools of swimming pools lying to rain reservoirs. The wildlife is destroyed: the installation, the reed killings have a damaging effect on the wildlife, they seriously weaken the lake's immune system. You, my fellow pro-government Members, think you can eviscerate the lake, but irresponsible installation, reed destruction, will have its fasts. Sooner or later, if they keep going like this, they could ruin the Balaton for good. Therefore, I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply as to why they are taking away Balaton from the Hungarian people and putting the health and future of the Hungarian sea at risk. [[Applause in the lines of Dialogue, LMP and MSZP.]]
u2022-06-27-73	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Deputy Minister Sándor Farkas responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2022-06-27-74	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Your speeches are now always in the same style every week, which is particularly negative and, last but not least, does not give any positive experience to either of us. [[Rebecca Szabó intervenes. Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] The critical comments you have made about Lake Balaton have been a topic for many years between Parliament's walls and the committee meeting, but if you go along the shore of Lake Balaton, I think you will find the opposite. In recent years, Lake Balaton has become very popular among Hungarians again. Year after year, the number of visitors to Lake Balaton will set records in the summer season, although, according to the congresswoman, on Fridays, the crowds travelling to Lake Balaton on the M7 motorway are all luxurious tourists. I would like to state that Hungary's Government is committed to preserving the natural values of the Lake Balaton, protecting green areas and providing natural recreational opportunities related to water. To this end, the Parliament passed the Act on the spatial planning plan for Hungary and certain priority regions, which protects the natural and built values of Lake Balaton with stricter regulations than before. The adopted law further strengthens the rules on coastal use of land, in particular the conservation of beaches, campsites, recreational green spaces and coastal promenades, as well as the accessibility of the coast. The former Balaton Law has raised the protection of the Balaton Highest Resort to a higher level compared to other areas of the country, with particularly strong and strict construction regulations on the waterfront. [[15.40]] The strict regulation began to ease in the second half of the 2000s, when Parliament made it possible, among other things, to classify the area of campsites into a mixed area or resort area, thereby increasing the possibility of installation. Apartments, cottages, hotels were allowed to be built in the area of camping purchased by businesses that took off during this period. The building rights already acquired cannot be taken away by the new law, but in order to prevent further installation, it records that existing campsites can be maintained as campsites, with a maximum beach or green area, i.e. a public area typically with green surface. The new law on beaches maintains that the beach can be built up to 10 per cent and at least 65 per cent of it has to be constructed and maintained as a wooded green surface. In addition, it also prohibits the construction of residential and holiday buildings, accommodation, accommodation and apartments in the area of the beach. It is a very important and important new rule that the area intended for new installation in the coastal areas of Lake Balaton is no longer eligible, and the integration rate in existing areas intended for installation cannot be increased. At this point, however, I recall that there is still an unbuilt area in the territory of many municipalities, which is considered by the municipality as an area intended for installation, and these future constructions cannot be influenced by the law for constitutional reasons. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The Balaton region is Hungary's number one resort area, so the government places great emphasis on supporting the development of the area, both from an architectural point of view and in order to increase the quality of the services. I ask the honourable Member to accept my reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-27-75	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I'll ask Congresswoman to accept the Deputy Minister's reply. You have the floor.
u2022-06-27-76	Thank you. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Unfortunately, I can't accept that answer. I am very pleased that you have presented me with the passages of the Regional Planning Act, but unfortunately, I do not think that you are complying with this law. You're saying you're committed to protecting the Lake Balaton, but why are you letting them destroy the high shore of Balatonvilágos, for example? I think it would be worth talking about, and why, at a conference last time, the Balaton Limnological Research Institute found that climate change and intensive human use have disrupted the ecosystem of the lake, jeopardises the water quality of the lake, and are concerned about human interventions that threaten the area and quality of the lakeside reeds. Unfortunately, I see that your government is not doing anything about these processes, but also pouring tourist money into these large investments, which do damage the lake, its wildlife and thus its water quality, and endangering the equal use of the Hungarian sea by all people in the future. So I can't accept that answer at all. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2022-06-27-77	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman did not accept the Deputy Minister's reply. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place today. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Bakos, representative of LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Technology and Industry:. How long does the Government delay the introduction of the climate lease? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2022-06-27-78	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The LMP has submitted a proposal for a decision on the introduction of a climate lease. We propose that this lease would cost HUF 5 000 a month, and would apply to all domestic public transport. The introduction of the climate lease was first proposed for a three-month trial period, and then a genuine social consultation should be conducted to ensure that it remains permanent and what improvements are needed to maintain it. Climate rent is a green and social measure at the same time. Green, as it helps to change modes of transport by making public transport more attractive, reducing the proportion of car transport. After all, transport emissions in Hungary are rapidly increasing: between 2013 and 2019 greenhouse gas emissions in the sector increased by 46 percent, well above the 8 percent increase in the EU during the same period. By increasing the share of public transport, we can therefore reduce greenhouse gas emissions, congestion, noise and Russian energy dependence, as 70% of the oil used in transport comes from Russia. In addition, public transport has an extremely efficient energy use: for example, a road by rail uses ten times as much energy as car transport in the same term. Climate rent is also a social measure, since in recent years the costs of families have increased significantly, and besides the 5 thousand HUF rental price, public transport users or switchers could save a lot of money. Consider a common example. If someone comes from Érd to work every day in downtown Budapest, it costs 29 500 HUF by car in a month without parking. The MÁV and BKK leases on this section would be HUF 15 500, while the air-conditioning lease would be only HUF 5 thousand. This may be the most pressing problem, as hundreds of thousands of people walk in every day from the agglomeration and the outer districts to the downtown of Budapest, but the situation in rural cities is not much better either. Minister of State Balázs Fürjes and Minister László Palkovics have also recently expressed positive views on the climate lease, but we have not yet heard any concrete statements. So, for example, we do not know what they are looking at so long, despite the fact that, for example, they were able to make their views known and introduced almost immediately about the petrol stop. Dear Secretary of State, How long will the government delay the introduction of a climate lease? Thank you for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2022-06-27-79	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Zsófia Koncz responds to the interpellation, you have the floor.
u2022-06-27-80	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you very much for the fact that LMP is always bringing up climate policy issues here in the Hungarian Parliament, and I think that there is no debate between us on many issues. The government aims at guaranteeing Hungary's energy security, ensuring a smooth energy vision, maintaining the reduction of the costs and, of course, implementing the climate and nature conservation action plan, which is also a cornerstone of the greening of transport. The development and promotion of Community transport is a key common aspect of our transport and environmental policy. This two but one-way approach meets, among other things, the Green Bus programme launched by the government, in which the exchange of local and inter-local bus parks has begun. With the mass appearance of clean and quiet electric vehicles, air and noise pollution is reduced and service standards are increased. The technological and industrial portfolio is constantly studying international practices, and we are always ready to examine the possibility of transposition of good initiatives and the possibility of introducing them in line with domestic conditions. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that our wallet, the professional team of our ministry, has already started to examine the issue of climate leases raised by you before this was even discussed here in the Parliament. However, it must be pointed out that the situation in Hungary and Germany is completely different, because there is a huge difference, namely that German citizens pay much more than a gas tank, because they have to face higher energy prices and fuel prices than Hungarians. Since the petrol price in Hungary is 480 HUF per litre thanks to the petrol stop, and this has been extended until 1 October, there is sufficient time for a thorough examination of the German example to collect experience. I would also like to note that the left was given the opportunity to manage a number of municipalities in 2019, so in these cities it is also possible to introduce new transport ticket and rent schemes. In Hungary, the share of renewable energy is constantly increasing, we have a realistic chance of achieving our climate policy goals sooner and we are doing everything we can to ensure that Hungary meets the energy challenges of the future. At present, our most important task is, as I said, to guarantee Hungary's energy security, to ensure domestic energy demand, to protect the Hungarian people from the runaway energy prices in Europe, i.e. to maintain the reduction of the rent and, not least, to strengthen the independence of our country's energy. By the way, the promotion of public transport is extremely important for us, not by accident, for example, we have launched several new flights towards Lake Balaton. There is also bus access to Lake Balaton from the county seats and the waitings where there is no direct train connection. [[15.50]] Otherwise, we have extended night traffic and a number of related projects are underway. In this context, they may allow me to mention a word about the bicycle road network. A very important section of the Budapest-Balaton bike path network was handed over between Budapest and Etyek, and we also continuously expand the purchase of trains for the carriage of bicycles. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I would ask the Member to support the Government's actions on these important issues. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-27-81	I thank the Secretary of State for her reply. I'll ask Congresswoman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2022-06-27-82	Thank you, but unfortunately I cannot accept your answer. We really ask these questions from week to week, and we get conflicting answers from week to week. And there is indeed a difference between Germany and Hungary, while the Germans support public transport, while we Hungarians support car transport. Unfortunately, I didn't get the answer to when that was gonna change, so I'm not gonna take your answer. [[Applause on the opposition side.]]
u2022-06-27-83	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our sitting today. Dear Parliament, János Halász, a representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. How does prolonged war affect illegal migration? It's an address. [[Zoltán Vajda laughs.]] Mr János Halász has the floor.
u2022-06-27-84	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In the shadow of a prolonged war in our neighborhood, important events, data, and facts can embezzle the news that had been heavily thematicized in the past. Data and events relating to illegal migration are now being discussed much less, even though illegal migration is a constant threat to our lives. It is important to pay attention to the numbers to see which direction processes are taking place. It is a fact that the Russian-Ukrainian war does not only dominate the news; Russian aggression and Ukraine's disaster have far-reaching effects. The prolonged war, partly due to sanctions, causes economic and trade difficulties, war inflation, energy crisis, humanitarian crisis, and affects almost all areas of life. There can be no exceptions to this process of illegal migration. From the weekly data published by the police, it is clear that the number of illegal cross-border attempts is increasing. This year's figures are well above the data from the same period last year. This is happening at a time when the police must also pay particular attention to the control of the eastern border section. The situation is clearly known to smugglers and illegal cross-border entrepreneurs. The rise in numbers suggests that those affected see a better chance of getting into the Schengen area. At the back of the electoral campaign behind us, it became clear that the messages of the Hungarian left about migration were not in the context of reality. On the other hand, Fidesz has been following a sober road for years. Hungary has consistently expressed the view that those who come in compliance with domestic and international rules, taking on their identity, fleeing from real threats and cooperating with the authorities will receive all available assistance. International protection is granted to those who are truly entitled to it. However, those who wish to enter the territory of the country illegally, driven by dubious motives, often even by force, can only count on our police to help us leave the country and the Schengen area. I ask, on the basis of all this, Mr Secretary of State, how does prolonged war affect illegal migration? How has the number of illegal cross-border attempts developed in recent years? In what direction do the current processes point? How do the forces protecting the Hungarian border carry out their task, and what action are we taking against organised illegal cross-border attempts and smuggling of people? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-27-85	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The interpellation will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. You have the floor.
u2022-06-27-86	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think we should thank every police officer serving on the Hungarian border for protecting the Hungarian border in this summer canicula, protecting us from being no-go zones in Hungary and from Hungary becoming an immigrant country. It is not only the panic, the summer heat, that makes it difficult for police officers to serve at the border, but also that smugglers and immigrants are becoming more aggressive. So far, 164 cases of illegal border crossings have been attacked by police officers who legally defend the Hungarian border. In 69 cases so far, the vehicles of the Hungarian police, the soldiers serving at the border have been damaged, 69 smashed into the windshield, and the vehicles used to perform the service have been attacked. In 21 cases, either the border lock or the various technical devices, or even eight cases of smugglers themselves attacking police officers protecting the border, or violently trying to pull themselves out of action. This shows that not only the numbers are rising, but the behaviour of smugglers and migrants appearing is becoming increasingly aggressive at the Hungarian border. But the rise, as you referred to it, is also significant. At the beginning of the year, in the first months, the average was about 3,000 people per week, and now we are at 6,500 per week. If we compare data from previous years, in 2020 46,000 illegal migrants tried to enter Hungary, last year 122 thousand, and this year, we are not halfway through the year, but in addition to the 122 thousand last year, 105 thousand people tried to enter Hungary illegally this year. This is more than the population of Székesfehérvár, and if we do so, the population of Debrecen will be at least equal to the number of people who want to come to Hungary illegally. At the same time, the number of smugglers is increasing. In 2020, 455 smugglers were caught, 1277 last year and 786 this year. So apparently, the number of smugglers is also increasing, constantly rising, month by month. And what you have said, honourable Member, it is increasingly likely that more and more groups will appear as a result of the African and other economic difficulties caused by the Russian-Ukrainian war. The pressure on the southern border will therefore be greater than ever before, so the government is preparing to strengthen the guard there. Alongside the police, border fighters are already there to protect the southern border. We must strengthen the service staff, precisely in order to keep the Hungarian people safe. We also need to do this because although illegal migrants on the border are becoming increasingly aggressive and often attacking the police rather than asking for help, what the left is trying to say about them. On the other hand, the left continues to advocate illegal migration. He said that the most important issue was not immigration itself, but integration, and he said that this was a relatively easy task. The European Union supports all projects supporting migrants, but it does not substantially support the protection of the Hungarian border. We were able to cover around 1.5 percent of the costs from European Union funds while protecting the EU's external borders, while all migration projects, we see, are financed from Brussels funds. We also see how the left says the words that Brussels expects them to say. Klára Dobrev, DK's almost Prime Minister's candidate:. Immigration is a brilliant communication trick, if Viktor Orbán were to rebel against UFOs, then today the majority of people in Hungary would be afraid of UFOs. That's how he tries to make it weightless. Her husband also said: "The government builds on the worst instincts when it wants to build a fence. By no means should the border fence be built, Gergely Christmas! , Momentum, Anna Orosz: In the medium term, domestic workers benefit from immigration, as their wages increase. , Bence Tordai, Dialogue:, We have told you a thousand times, the fence built at the southern border [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] pointless, inhumane and wasteful expensive. However, we protect the Hungarian southern border, although the left would never do that. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-27-87	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Béla Mihálffy, representative of KDNP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice with the title of "State sanctions." [[Bence Rétvári: Let us hear yet, Mr President, that the John accepted it, because I could not sleep well.]] I'm sorry. Excuse me. My apologies, Congressman, we've been preparing for the next agenda here, and we've been concentrating. Congressman, you have the floor. [[16.00]]
u2022-06-27-88	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your detailed information. From the figures you have presented, you see that illegal migration remains a real security threat to our country. It is worrying to hear that every year there is an increase in migratory pressure at the border, but it is reassuring that our police and soldiers continue to be exemplary and to hold back the masses of migrants. It is sad that the left is still not to be expected in this vital struggle. If it were up to them, thousands of migrants would be running around Hungary, but we will not allow that. The Fidesz fraction can continue to be relied on by the Hungarian people, the Hungarian families and our faction to support the government in its fight against migration. Thank you very much. I accept your answer. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-06-27-89	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Deputy Minister's reply. Next up, Honourable Parliament, Mr Béla Mihálffy, representative of KDNP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice with the title of the State of Justice sanctions. Congressman Béla Mihálffy has the floor.
u2022-06-27-90	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that all of our projects in Europe seem to be coming to an end. It seems that the citadel of freedom, prosperity and security will soon be built on the old continent, as the war raging in Ukraine and the economic crisis and energy crisis strangling the whole continent are already running out, and now it is time for EU policymakers to address the really important issue of the rule of law in Hungary. Hungary has not yet proved to be the best lamb when it should have voted for the unthinkable and harmful EU sanctions packages against Russia without thinking about it, because in several places they have been conflicting not only with the principles represented by the government but also with the Hungarian national interests. The oil embargo plan originally incorporated in the last sixth package of measures would have disastrous consequences for the Hungarian economy, and Kirill's inclusion on the sanctioning list was launched as an attack on religious freedom, but fortunately, thanks to the tough standing of the government, the Hungarian position was enforced in both points. These successes, I suspect, do not like those interest groups that want Europe to continue to have prestige, competitiveness and weight. That is why I was not surprised to hear critical voices from the House of the LIBE Committee again against our country and against the Hungarian rule of law. This time the emergency was introduced as a special legal order, because they believe that this is not the case in Hungary and that it has not been justified in the past. This is when we are reminded of two excruciating Covid years, as well as the war at the moment, and people with a better feeling begin to wonder that it is worth sitting down with the pigeon to play chess. Dear Secretary of State, The war will continue, who knows when it will end. The Ukrainian President has already called for the seventh package of sanctions, on which news of the gas embargo and of various customs duties has been launched, which promises to be another blow to our country. I believe that the government must remain under pressure, and that the rights and interests of Hungarian people and Hungarian families must be maintained. We cannot assist in destroying Europe, especially Hungary. Dear Secretary of State, Please describe your position on the latest criticisms of the rule of law in Hungary and the impact of possible sanctions in the EU. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-06-27-91	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Répássy Róbert, State Secretary, responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2022-06-27-92	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, As we know, in parallel with the war in Ukraine, an ideologically based fight in the European Union is also being fought in the robe of the protection of the rule of law. The so-called Article 7 procedure initiated by the European Parliament against our country almost four years ago has now become completely indifferent among the Member States. Therefore, under political pressure from the European Parliament, the European Commission has also introduced the latest weapon, the budgetary conditioning procedure. It is symbolic that the President of the European Commission announced to the MEPs on the second day following the overwhelming victory of the Fidesz-KDNP on 3 April that the Commission would launch the procedure. He did this to the greater glory of the rule of law, without even making a decision at the time of the notification. We received the notice of initiation on 27 April with two months' notice of reply. That deadline is due today. In today's reply, the Government will provide a detailed, evidence-based response to all the hypothetical concerns raised by the Commission. We do this in the language of the law, standing on the ground of facts and looking at the situation of other Member States on issues which the Commission is concerned about. In our response, we ask the Commission to take into account the requirements of EU law and the European Court of Justice, respect for the principle of equal treatment between Member States and the prohibition of double standards and the specificities of the constitutional traditions and legal systems of the Member States. At the same time, we are also pointing out legislation and government measures in recent years, which make the Commission's objections even more unfounded. I would like to illustrate, by example, what kind of debates we have, how they reason, and how we argue. According to the Commission, the proportion of single tender procurement procedures in our country is abnormally high because they consider that the ratio above 20 per cent is not acceptable. The fact is that this ratio is also higher than 20% in 18 other Member States outside Hungary. In fact, there are five EU Member States where this ratio is higher than the Hungarian value. Of course, the Commission did not see reason to initiate the budgetary conditioning procedure against either of them. However, we have already undertaken last year's comprehensive action plan to reduce this rate to 15 percent. In addition, we have drawn the Commission's attention to the fact that it has developed 12 indicators for assessing the EU's public procurement system itself. Of these, Hungary had only one concern about the rule of law. Hungary is also in favour of peace in the fight for the rule of law, we are interested in a constitutional dialogue based on mutual respect instead of divisive debates, unfounded accusations and unilateral adjustment, which the government has been calling for for for years. In view of this, we are also involved in the annual dialogues on the rule of law initiated by the Commission. The Hungarian Government is doing everything in its power to enforce the rights and interests of Hungary and the Hungarian people. The question in the interpellation was that it was worth sitting down with a pigeon to play chess. My answer is that if the interests of Hungarian people and families so require, the government is willing to sit down and play chess not only with a pigeon, but also with the Commission. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-06-27-93	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor. (Dr. Lajos Szűcs in the notary seat) Replaced by Dr. Winner Vinnai.)
u2022-06-27-94	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I also thank you, Mr State Secretary, for your reply. He reassured me that the Hungarian Government will no longer act as a sure lamb in Brussels when defending Hungarian interests, so I accept his reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-06-27-95	I thank you, Congressman, for your response. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, László Varju, a representative of DK, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance:. Are you willing to do something about inflation? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-06-27-96	Thank you very much. Taking advantage of this opportunity, I hope I am in the same position as the Secretary of State said earlier, that the Secretary of State will be pleased with the question I am asking, even because you know the principle of three strikes well and are used regularly, but the problem now is that they are being used against people. These three strikes are now the cutting inflation, the drastic austerity planned for next year's budget, and otherwise the taxes that are still being levied are called coy extra-profiters, but they actually pass everything on to the consumer and make him pay. [[16.10]] The three objectives are to empty citizens' wallets, but differ only in the methods used. It is already inflation in the three that is brutally felt. Prices do not rise from hour to hour, as in 1945-46, but they are noticeably so from week to week. By May, food inflation was already above 25 percent, i.e. we paid for the same food by quarter more than a year ago. The rate of increase in meat, eggs, cheese, butter, margarine, pastries or vegetables is breathtaking. Hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families are both serious financial and I must say that the purchase of food for the weekend is a psychological strain. The Democratic Coalition has put forward a package of proposals to alleviate the crisis, including price reduction. It is a millennia experience that price regulation is not suitable for this, so it is recommended that by the end of this year the VAT on basic food, catering at work, child care products, female hygiene products, solar panels and energy modernisation of dwellings be reduced to zero and then fixed at 5 per cent. Similarly, it is not necessary to pay excise duty on fuels by the end of the year and to reduce it by half over the $75 oil price for fuels. This, of course, reduces budget revenue, i.e. cuts in expenditure, otherwise the deficit continues to increase and inflation continues to increase. For this purpose, we propose a reduction of HUF 842 billion in the HUF hundreds of billions of funds for key government and civil engineering investments in the Hungarian Defence Fund in view of the very difficult period to come, recognised by the Prime Minister. So I ask Mr Deputy Minister, the Government is willing to do something about DK's proposals to reduce and curb inflation. Thank you very much. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-06-27-97	Thank you. Dear Parliament, State Secretary András Tállai, Deputy Minister, responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2022-06-27-98	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Looks like if you're on the wheel, you'll be squeezed and lost. [[Gergely Harvesto: We're not on the government, you like to be wrong!]] If they're in opposition, they want to cut VAT. Honourable Congressman, Honestly, I've read your interpellation. [[Speaking from the opposition side: Touching!]] And you didn't tell me the end of your interpellation here in front of the National Assembly. [[László Varju: You tell me, Mr. Deputy Minister.]] This is the way it is said:. Especially the upper limit of the family tax benefit for high-income earners could be reduced, and this should be used to replace the amount of the tax on consumption that we propose. This means you're gonna take away the family tax relief. This is how it begins, that they are higher earners, and then reduce the rate of tax relief, and at the end, as the Gyurcsány government did, to take it away. We certainly don't support that. But you would also take away the HUF 1800 billion tax reduction in your interpellation, the social contribution tax discount, the social contribution tax allowance, but especially the personal income tax discount, which is nearly HUF 600 billion, is the family tax reduction. Honourable Member, accusing the current government of not doing anything for inflation [[Sic!]] It's impossible. [[Noise, clear on the opposition side. Interjection: Yes, you did a lot!]] I'll tell you a few things. The first is the reduction of overhead costs, the fixing of the price of energy as an official price, which was introduced in 2013-14. What happened now is the fuel price stop, the retail price of fuels was set at HUF 400 per litre on 15th no-vember 2021. The interest rate stop was extended until 30 December 2022, leaving some 30 billion in the family register. While you are squeamish, the food price stop was extended until 1 October, which gave Hungarian families a significant discount. The Hungarian government returned the 13th month pension, which you took away when there was trouble. The Hungarian government returned 600 billion HUF tax relief to Hungarian families and gave arms money to police and defence workers. Instead, you took the 13th month [[He's turning the page in his notes.]] wages for civil servants. [[Gergely Harvesto: I got it, thank God.]] Honourable Congressman, We also know that inflation is not a Hungarian phenomenon, it is present all over the world, Europe is particularly affected. Every country tries to do something about it. The Hungarian government effectively defends against inflation because inflation is lower in Hungary than in Central European countries. Let us not forget that the wages of Hungarians, the rise in wages this year, are higher than inflation, which is not typical for other countries. We have protected the real value of pensions, we protect the real value of income, the Hungarian government is doing everything it can to combat inflation. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-27-99	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Deputy Minister's reply. You have the floor.
u2022-06-27-100	Mr. President, thank you very much. I cannot accept Mr. Deputy Minister's reply. I'll give you two reasons. Mr. Deputy Minister, let's put the boots on the table. For example, [[Bence Rétvári: How do the boots get on the table?]] The budget has HUF 127 billion in tao discharge, which, for example, could only be paid if the Football Academy in Felcsú were to be accounted for by spending public money. If they were to use the Tao and not unchecked as they were left, they could achieve significant savings. On the other hand, you are talking about the overhead, which is increased instead of reducing, because last week, for example, in Debrecen, an increase was adopted that increases the cost of catering, travelling, child care and funeral expenses in the city. This was decided by the government through the municipalities. Your answer is unacceptable. [[Applause on the opposition side.]]
u2022-06-27-101	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman did not accept the Deputy Minister's reply. I would like to inform you that a decision will be taken in accordance with our agreed agenda today. Dear Parliament, It's 16 hours and 17 minutes, and we're moving on to the immediate questioning. Dear Parliament, Olga Kálmán, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What do you think, Prime Minister? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2022-06-27-102	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, Perhaps in an unnecessary way, chasing vain fantasies, but I trust that you, Szilárd Németh, who are committed fans of gastronomy, will now be terrified even when you see how much soup, meat, potatoes, and pacal costs for a Sunday lunch. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: That doesn't work in the soup!]] But, you know, Prime Minister, we are not here to find out which of you will be the next chef, but I am here to talk about finally taking note that the food prices that are escaping will bury the Hungarian families. Although, you know, I have no idea how you cook, but I know exactly how you steer. If I say it's bad, then I was fine and feminine. [[Rumble on the pro-government side.]] The Hungarian vocabulary, the relatively wide vocabulary of the Hungarian language, could be used to describe your governance. What kind of government is it that sits by and watches food go up from week to week, that within a month, meat costs 10 percent more, potatoes, that one and a half times as much is paid for ten eggs, that the price of dairy products has increased by 37 percent in one year? [[16.20]] And Hungarian families know precisely that if someone, then the government, the Prime Minister, could do so despite this and in order to stop the inflation that is escaping, the prices can be stopped. The Democratic Coalition has a resolution proposal, we asked for it several weeks ago. [[Intercoms from the benches of the governing parties, among others: Gyurcsány! Where's the president?]] Please accept these proposals, reduce to zero per cent more product groups by the end of the year, including VAT on basic foods. You have not acted on this issue since then, which is why I am asking you, Prime Minister, hundreds of thousands of Hungarians [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In his name, why should Hungarian families be punished even during Sunday's lunch because of your collapse in economic policy. Thank you. [[Applause from the benches of DK and Momentum.]]
u2022-06-27-103	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2022-06-27-104	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It's not the first time we've both been in this situation. You've asked me before. I remember it going better. [[Defiance from the benches of the governing parties.]] All I can tell you is that if you look at the general state of Europe, you will see that the whole continent is affected by war inflation: Estonia 20 percent, Lithuania 19, the Czechs 17, the Czechs 16, Bulgaria 15, Romania 14, Poland 14, Slovakia 13, Greece 12, Croatia 12, Hungary 10, and then the others come in line. It also shows that there may be a connection: whoever is closer to the war zone is also higher in inflation. The question is what can be done. Unlike you, I've been criticized not because we didn't do anything, but because of what we did, because we introduced the price caps. Now, of course, you are saying that we should rather reduce the sales tax, but we have been sitting here for a long time, and we are doing this industry: believe me, if we reduce VAT, it will not be the price that goes down, but the traders will take the money. Therefore, the right policy is price caps policy. Therefore, I think it is right and necessary to maintain that we protect the reduction of costs; it is important that some of the food products have a price cap, that there is a fuel price cap and that interest is limited. If we hadn't done all this and didn't do it in the future, families would be in a really hopeless situation. But families can count on us, and we will protect them, just as we did in previous years. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-06-27-105	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, In return, I'll give the floor to the congresswoman in one minute. Here you go.
u2022-06-27-106	I have memories of the past when it went better. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: When?]] , such as criticising as opposition politicians and saying different ideas. Well, I didn't have much expectations, but you managed to subdue them. You know, apparently they don't understand that the Democratic Coalition is talking about people's everyday difficulties and legitimate expectations. The rightful expectation to do something. The price cap really made people's lives easier... [[Defiance and intervention from the benches of the governing parties: Sipka!]] Yeah, they're talking about hats, price caps. I'm sure I said it funny, and I thought you'd understand. So, it's nothing in people's everyday lives, but it hasn't made any progress, and you know it. You are constantly manipulating the public, constantly trying to lead us on and mislead us, and now it doesn't hurt you to have people pay the price for their wrong economic policy. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] With food prices [[The president's ringing again.]] Mind your own business and acknowledge your responsibilities, Prime Minister. Thank you. [[Applause from the benches of DK and Momentum.]]
u2022-06-27-107	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2022-06-27-108	When the government was formed after the April elections, the war was well underway, so I could present to you the government's plans here by knowing the fact of the war, and we could calculate its expected consequences. When I introduced the government here, the government took on four things, and we will do these four things: we will protect jobs, even if there is war and war inflation. [[Intervention from the benches of opposition parties: Did you succeed?]] ; we will protect pensions, including the 13th month pension that you have taken away, even if there is a war; we will protect the family support system, even if there is war inflation; and we will also protect the reduction in wages, even if there is war inflation. What DK's program is worth and what it isn't, I'd be more modest about it, and I'd just like to say that there were 74 interim elections this weekend. In the opinion of the people, the governing parties received 66.7 percent, and the second-place graduates, while DKs received 28 percent. People have made their views very clear. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Intercom from the benches of the governing parties: That's right!]]
u2022-06-27-109	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Peter James, representative of Jobbik [[Noise and interruptions from the benches of the governing parties.]] Asking an immediate question to Prime Minister [[The president's ringing the bell.]] What do you think of this, Prime Minister? You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-06-27-110	Thank you for the floor, Prime Minister. Recently, at an economic conference, you told Hungarian workers that, I quote: if you are good at something, ask for the price. Well, obviously, it started out on its own, because you're very good at stealing and lying, and we're paying the price properly, especially at the store, when we buy the food at a gold price, and you're taking care of it with the fact that there's no reason for panic, there's no need for strategic rest. Prime Minister, I believe you're calm. I believe you're calm, because we can see how this works with you. Obviously, you were already a little short of money, just like the average Hungarian, because after 32 years of parliament, you don't have any savings. The prices also got out of hand, so he thought he'd raise his own salary with a noble simplicity. Not 10 percent, not 20 percent, not penny, raised 100 percent. Well, I believe you're calm, but the workman isn't. The teacher, the policeman, the nurse, the fireman is very not, but they took your advice: if you're good at something, ask for the price. They asked for the price. In countless forums, you have been told that a radical wage increase is needed, because the net of 200,000 does not come out at the end of the month of strategic calm. Yes, Prime Minister, the Hungarian man works well and asks for the price, but he doesn't get it, that's the problem. Minister of the Interior, who we now know not only touched the baton, but also the scalpel and chalk, made it clear what you thought about raising the wages of the workers the other day. I'm not making any promises, and that's what he said. That's what he said! Well, here we go. We are saying that the Hungarian worker will not be given a raise, but he will not receive a promise either. And that's how you want to catch up with Austria by 2030? Is this how you want to catch up with the Austrian standard of living in eight years, while crippled the Hungarian people with low wages, high taxes, and runaway prices? And if that wasn't enough, your right-hand man, György Matolcsy, will say it's time to raise the retirement age. Says this in a country where a significant proportion of people, say, about half of men, will never retire because they will die before. Are you out of your mind, Prime Minister? They want to work the Hungarian to death, but literally? This is the plan, is this the future? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and DK.]]
u2022-06-27-111	Dear Parliament, The Prime Minister will answer the question. You have the floor, Prime Minister.
u2022-06-27-112	Dear fellow Member, We've all heard that. [[Defiance from the benches of the governing parties. James Peter: Then answer me!]] And what's more exciting is that people have all heard it, which is why you're getting spanked, and you're getting spanked in person several times. The situation is that when we debated and had to vote on women's pension rules after 40 years, which are more favourable to them, you did not vote for them. Don't tell us that we want to increase the retirement age; when we reduced it, you didn't vote for it. [[László Szászfalvi to Peter: What are you going to do?]] As far as the Prime Minister's salary is concerned, you know that it is decided by Parliament. For my part, I have accepted Parliament's decision. [[Deterioration from the floors of Momentum.]] And I will continue to accept it. [[Gergely Harvesto: Modesty!]] I'm honored to be doing this job. I also agreed that your wages had been settled by Parliament before the Prime Minister, four years before they left me at the end of the line. I think it's right, and I've waited my turn. The result of our 12 years of work in wages is that the minimum wage has tripled compared to 2010, from 73 thousand forints to 200,000 forints, and the average wage has almost doubled. Hungarian people can count on us, we work to make more and more money. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-06-27-113	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I'll give you the floor in a minute.
u2022-06-27-114	Prime Minister, you know, the problem is that over the last 12 years, you have made Hungarian people get used to it, you have made them believe that they can overcome all kinds of crises. The Soros plan has been defeated, whatever it is, but this is a real crisis, and it's total chaos. [[16.30]] Your first announcement that the extra taxes are coming has dropped the forint like the order of it. Prime Minister, forint 404 is a euro! Due to record inflation, Hungarian families will lose more than half a million forints only this year, and this is only the beginning. Prime Minister, you have six economic ministers in your government, none of them smart? [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] Sorry, Mihály Varga had one before 2010, it has to be acknowledged, then he said that inflation can be reduced by reducing VAT. Prime Minister, that's the solution. Release the VAT on basic foods and guarantee that this money is not put in the pocket by the traders, but by the customers. In other words, let us leave more money than people so that they can survive the critical time ahead of us. You have two-thirds of the authority and extraordinary legal order and dog ears, so don't look for excuses, don't point to anything else, but act. [[Applause in opposition lines. An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]]
u2022-06-27-115	Congressman, I would like to inform you that you are speaking in the Hungarian Parliament. Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder.
u2022-06-27-116	How good it is that during the previous years the Hungarian government has saved families from the foreign exchange loan situation, in which you and your allies have dragged Hungary, because now you can see the families themselves with the 400 euro. So the Hungarian government has nothing to be ashamed of in the fight against inflation and price increases. In the method, I repeat, I probably wasn't clear enough about the former: reducing VAT doesn't lower prices, if that's what you believe, then you're wrong. There is only one way to reduce prices, whether we like it or not, to match our views in peacetime or not: when intervention is required, price regulation must be introduced, this is the only way to protect families. The device is working and no other device is working. We have great debates with market participants on a regular basis, no one who is affected by the price cap as a trader or producer, is not happy about it by the traders, they are not happy about the extra-profit tax, but we need to withdraw or part of the income generated by inflation, and we need to use it to reduce or protect the overhead. It is not chaos, but a clear, transparent system, which I believe is sustainable for many months, and we hope that in the next few months we will have positive changes in the course of the war and in the course of the European economy. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] If that's not the case, we're ready to deal with the questions at that time. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-27-117	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, András Fekete-Győr, representative of Momentum, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: Can the government enter the same river twice? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-06-27-118	Mr. Prime Minister, During a period of 404 HUF euros, war and historical difficulties, the only right and fair behavior is honesty and cooperation, so I would like to ask you that you have been hiding something from the country. While you are cutting the Hungarians down with penalty taxes instead of bringing EU money home, do you intend to spend the Hungarians' money on Olympic investment at megaloman? I'm sure you don't know, but we have a lot in common: we love playing football. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] We are passionate about the Hungarian National Team and we are working for a Hungary that, if it is able and willing, is organizing an Olympics. If you can and are willing, Prime Minister. The latest Olympics in Tokyo cost HUF 5000 billion at today's rate. You planned the Budapest Olympics in 2024, which would require some two and a half times the constraints of the already announced Orbán package. Let us say: Hungary would not be able to pay for the Budapest Olympics. Our common passion is also direct democracy. Your political career started with a four-yes referendum with the SZDSZ, although both of your referendums have been invalid since 2010. After the Olympic campaign of the Momentum, however, you were the one who did not allow the Hungarians to decide in a referendum, whether they wanted an Olympics in Budapest or not; you fled cowardly and withdrew the application. Let us say: Hungary would not have paid for the Budapest Olympics. Today we are in the middle of an economic crisis, which is why you are taking 2,000 billion forints out of people's pockets. This is austerity, and the increased prices will eventually make people pay penalty taxes. And the MOB tells you that applying for the 2030 Olympics is a moral duty, a moral duty to apply for the 36th Olympics? [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Wouldn't it rather be a salary increase for teachers, nurses and policemen, Prime Minister, or the truth? Prime Minister, the Hungarians will be asked [[The president's ringing again.]] How can you and willing to pay thousands of billion forints for the Olympics? I'm waiting for your answer, thank you very much. [[Applause from the opposition ranks.]]
u2022-06-27-119	I would like to inform you, Congressman, that the time frame is two minutes. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go.
u2022-06-27-120	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, the Hungarian Government is not authorized to speak in place of the Hungarian Olympic Committee, and they are responsible for the Olympics, but I would like to come to your aid a little unauthorizedly. You know, you have to figure out what year the Olympics are, you have to divide them by four. You know, there won't be a 30. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] So the accusation that we would like to apply for the 30th Olympics is not possible because, you know, there is no such thing. By the way, if you're going to go further than that, you can also read that the 32nd Olympics already have a director. So there are no Olympics in 30, Mr. President. , and on the other hand, 32 has already been promised, has a director, so next time, we can talk about the 36, and in this regard I will be happy to be at your disposal if you will be here with me. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause and applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-27-121	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I'll give you the floor in a one-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2022-06-27-122	Prime Minister! In 2017, when more than 266 thousand people asked the Government and Parliament of Hungary to have a referendum on the Olympics, which you didn't dare write out, you called those young people dream killers and the hundreds of thousands of people who did it. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties. Bence Rétvári: You are now!]] Now, the truth is, Prime Minister, not only do you and Martin Luther King have dreams, but millions of Hungarians also have dreams. For example, start-up teachers dream of a salary of, say, 250,000 instead of a net salary of 150,000; in the next year's budget, we can't find the purpose and the estimate of it, and that's a problem. For example, Hungarian police dream of, say, raising their salary by at least 20 percent so that they do not run out of stock. Or do nurses and health professionals dream of raising their wages by a minimum of 30%; this is included in the Momentum's amendments to the budget. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] I'm asking the government to accept these, to fulfill people's dreams. Thank you very much. [[Applause in opposition lines.]]
u2022-06-27-123	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2022-06-27-124	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, This is my first conversation with you. You know, there's a rule here that, as a god gives, you're like a god, and you started by warning us about honesty. In the spirit of this, I recall that you said, "How do we get into a coalition with the MSZP?" I'll bet my life on this table for you, that's not gonna happen. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Or, in the spirit of honesty, another quote, "I don't know what the hell Ferenc Gyurcsány is still looking for in politics, he could really get out of public life. You are today the youth department of Ferenc Gyurcsány, so it will be difficult to take you seriously. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-27-125	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question with the title "The Issues of the Current." You have the floor.
u2022-06-27-126	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Prime Minister! On the evening of April 3rd, you seemed to have boarded the Moon and viewed the results of your infinitely fair, legal and fair election campaign; you had something to celebrate, you had a two-thirds majority, with this responsibility. Prime Minister, in some areas, it seems like they haven't landed on Earth since. [[16.40]] There are three such areas, which are one of the most important areas for the fundamental functioning of the Hungarian state: education, health and law enforcement. And surely the Prime Minister will not be informed or misinformed in addition to his bushy duties, but schools will close, and classes will be brought together because of a lack of teachers and a lack of children. I'm sure you haven't informed the Prime Minister. In the last few weeks, they've actually closed classes, hospitals... [[Defiance on the pro-government side. Nacsa Lőrinc: Sure, because it's summer break!]] I'm sorry, I'm talking about health care, hospital wards, hospitals temporarily shut down because of the lack of doctors, the lack of nurses and the lack of money. Nor has the Prime Minister been informed that there is nothing funny about this either, my fellow Members, that since the abolition of the decommissioning ban on 1 June, another wave has started and hundreds of policemen have submitted their request for decommissioning in the next wave. Prime Minister, this Parliament, your government has submitted a budget for next year. Not only for this year, but for next year there is not even a blinking light at the end of the tunnel for hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families. There's not a single penny to raise wages for nurses, nurses, teachers, and law enforcement. I ask Prime Minister: do you really not care about all these hundreds of thousands of people, do you not care that you are no longer able to perform the essential functions of the state, or are some corrections finally being made in this area? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2022-06-27-127	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2022-06-27-128	First of all, thank you very much for your congratulations on our election success. That's all the more reason, because the Fidesz candidate in your district won 55-35 against you. This shows that there may still be some credibility for the ruling parties there. We have always spoken very clearly about the issues you have raised here in recent months. Teachers will surely receive a 10-10-10 percent increase in three consecutive years. Definitely! Above what happens, we will be able to judge it in the light of the performance of the economy. In health care, during the previous cycle, we had a 70 percent wage increase for nurses over four years. Yeah, it would have been better 140, 210 or 280, because it's still, it's still not enough. I agree with you, we have to work on it, we're going to do everything in our power to increase the wages of the sisters. With regard to the lack of a doctor, I can tell you that in the case of doctors, there has never been a wage increase in Hungary as much as in the last year and a half, and a part of it is due on 1 January 2023, which the doctors will receive as we agree with them. When the Socialists are talking about the police, I am obliged to tell you, in addition to all courtesy, that until 2010, you have decommissioned the police and that it was rebuilt by Sándor Pintér in the years following 2010. Police officers are important, we try to appreciate their work, what they do is particularly important for border protection, so at the beginning of this year they received a six-month lump sum payment supplement. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-27-129	I'll give you the floor in return, Congressman.
u2022-06-27-130	I was sad to hear, Prime Minister, that you didn't promise anything, and you're probably going to keep it. Again, next year's budget doesn't show any coverage. But if it's a promise, László Kövér: Obviously one of the tasks that needs to be solved in the short term is that teachers and law enforcement must be reclaimed, their legitimate wages must be reclaimed. That's what the Speaker said after the election. And he mentioned Alexander for Pint. Let me quote him at the committee meeting. One of the major tasks in the area of law enforcement is, above all, the organisation of salaries for professional staff. Although they have received support over the past period, I would like it to become regular and to be incorporated into their monthly supplies, their monthly salaries. This requires adequate government support and adequate parliamentary support. I ask the Members, the committee, to support us in this. Prime Minister, we support you, God. In the Defense Committee, too, and I think that everyone in this room is going to press the yes button. But there is no such suggestion. Are you in favour of getting a raise in the area of law enforcement? And one more sentence, I'm sorry, Prime Minister: these increases may have taken place, but it doesn't change the fact that there are not enough doctors, there are not enough nurses, and there are not enough teachers in this country. So they're gonna have to change. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2022-06-27-131	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor, Prime Minister.
u2022-06-27-132	For the record, I'm happy to believe that you support everything, but when you were on the government, why did you take a month's salary from teachers? I'm willing to believe you support the health care workers, but when you were on the government, why did you take a month's salary from health workers? And when they were on the government, why did they shut down the schools? And when they were on the wheel, why did they beat up the police? We are happy to believe you, of course, but the facts are not behind your words. On the other hand, I repeat, teachers will receive a salary increase of at least 10 percent each year for the next three years. From the extra-profit tax collected in the Defense Fund, I hope that we can solve border surveillance without having to do any service there, and that will make the workload on them easier. And we are preparing for wage increases in all areas, depending on how the Hungarian economy will perform during this period of war economic crisis. One thing is certain, not for you, but for us the Hungarian people can count on us. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-27-133	I thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Dóra Dúró, István Szabadi and László Toroczkai, representatives of Mi Hazank, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "When are you going to deal with the really important things? It's an address. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró has the floor. [[Dóra Dúró: László Toroczkai asks the question!]] Sorry, Laszlo Toroczkai. All three of them came forward, and it was hard for me to decide between the three of them. President László Toroczkai has the floor.
u2022-06-27-134	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, It's like sometimes they pass the point, the most important cases, like they don't talk. I'll give you some examples. On the one hand, we are obviously very happy if the counties are to be called the county counties again, and the government commissioners are to be called the high priestess, and we will vote for them if such a proposal is made. But go a little further: I would also like you to talk about the historic Hungarian constitution and not treat our constitution as some sort of party privilege. We would like to be able to talk about this in this cycle, and not only would Hungary have a fidesz constitution. Then we are also pleased that the government has followed the old proposal of the Hungarian Movement and its idea of special taxes, for which we have fought a great deal, we have asked for it many times, we have said since the emergence of the Crown Virus. But here, it's like they've passed the point. While sometimes the debate between airlines and the government is entertaining, sometimes in an outrageous style, while the coronal virus epidemic was obviously not primarily its beneficiaries, casinos are all the more so, but they do not talk about casinos. Or, for example, there are the digital multinationals, the giant tech companies that, for example, we, along with you, have rejected the global minimum tax because they are out of the jurisdiction of the global minimum tax. On the other hand, you could settle this issue in national jurisdiction. I found 372 billion for the budget. I think that such a proposal has not yet been made by the opposition. This could increase the pay of police officers, raise the wages of teachers, health workers. Digital tax must be introduced, it is already in Austria, last year more than EUR 31 million of digital taxes were introduced in Austria. They suggested 5 percent on Facebook, Google and others. We propose 15%, as the global minimum tax has said. Please, Prime Minister, be brave enough to go after these pig-headed lords. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-06-27-135	Thank you. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2022-06-27-136	It's a new beginning. There are few people I've never argued with here in Parliament. I salute you now. I'm looking for my voice. We'll see how it goes. You are in opposition, which we respect. In one case, we will not be able to respect it, if they end up the way their predecessors did and run under the arm of Ferenc Gyurcsány to breathe free democratic air. In that case, the possibilities for cooperation will unfortunately be limited accordingly. But in the meantime, let's use the suspicion lawsuit to see if we can speak meaningfully to each other on certain issues, and I'm trying to do so now, although it has raised at least six cases, and I'm not sure that this format is the best way to review them with sufficient seriousness. [[16.50]] The constitution speaks of the historical constitution separately, so it is not missing from the Constitution, but it is in it, and when our constitution identifies the methods of interpretation of the Constitution, it refers to the historical constitution in a prominent place among them. I think this is not only an efficient but also a fair way of expressing our appreciation for the thirty or a few generations that preceded us. Extra-profit tax can be imposed on areas that are legally possible, and areas regulated by concessions are not like this. With regard to the taxation of digital companies under national jurisdiction, I am glad that we can cooperate, given that we are moving very slowly, not Hungary, but the European Union. At almost every summit in the European Union, it is now on the agenda for global taxation, and we are looking for a solution. Large countries like France have not yet managed to avoid tax rules by large international digital companies. We have to work under national authority, the Minister of Justice has a mandate for this, but I do not have much hope for this. [[Defiance. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] and not because the Minister cannot look at these issues, but because I think we are not doing anything on our own. Here, the European Union states must act together, if we act together, then there may be a digital tax. [[Kálmán Olga: Time! Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-27-137	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the congressman, Mr President, in return. Here you go.
u2022-06-27-138	Yes, Prime Minister, it is a fact that we are talking first, but I think you will have to listen to my ideas for a very long time. I'll give you two more topics where the government gets around the point again, very good communication, but at the end we experience something else. One of them is migration. So we are pleased that if the Minister of Defence comes to the border and finds that there is a big problem; yes, there is a very big problem at the southern border at the moment. But it would be very important that the very underpaid police officers, who are currently risking their lives in the case of starting wages, such as 160,000 forints against Kalashnikov, the migrants who have been equipped with machine guns, should not be ordered to taxi migrants, and often the smugglers and escorts should also be deported to the Serbian side, but to Rwanda at least. If the British Government has the courage to do so, then the Hungarian Government should also have the courage to do so! [[Moore in the ranks of DK, Momentum and Dialogue.]] So we want things of this nature, or, let's just say, if we were looking at the budget, I don't know if it's 18,5 billion forints. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] what kind of vaccine factory the government wants. We think the vaccination campaign failed with the coronal virus, plus the monkey pox. So what we're suggesting to the government is that you set me up with real research doctors and professionals. [[The president's ringing again.]] a biodefense group that can really protect Hungary. Thank you. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-06-27-139	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor, Prime Minister.
u2022-06-27-140	Dear fellow Member, We disagree about the virus. There's nothing surprising about that, because you were anti-vaccination, and from what I hear, you stayed. And we thought that the only really effective defense against the virus was to save lives is to inoculate. That difference of opinion, I see, will remain between us. But still, if you were to look at it from another side, our vaccine factory built in Debrecen, you might even agree, because it is true that it will also be suitable for the production of the current vaccine against the virus. But our ambition is greater, because we can also produce other vaccines, and we would like us to be able to produce all vaccinations required in Hungary. At this point, we may not be very far apart. As far as migration is concerned, we have a lot of work to do here. The Minister of the Interior has been given two months to solve this problem, because it can no longer be held that, while there is war on the east of us, soldiers are serving on the border instead of training. Our police officers won't last long either, because we have to run them away from the family, and not only are they short of money, but we have a lot of pressure. So the task I've given to the Home Secretary is to ask for a new body of police officers and non-military personnel to be set up by September. [[Dóra Dúró: Border Guard!]] which will only deal with border protection. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-27-141	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, Bence Tordai, representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] What's going on? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-06-27-142	The essence of a political lie is to conceal the truth of the present, to trample the right to know the truth, to take away the freedom of information, and to deprive the freedom of decision. Anyone who cannot know the truth cannot make a decision that is free and responsible. Look familiar? You wrote this in 2006 about Ferenc Gyurcsány, but you could have written about Fidesz 2022. The Fidesz regime deprives millions of people of the freedom of accurate information and the possibility of a decision. According to your 2006 line of thought, the government parties won an election with an open political lie, and this led to the fact that the austerity package was illegitimate, since it was not authorized by the government. Now you are introducing the constrictive Orbán package, which you have not asked for and have not been authorized to do. Behind the restrictions of thousands of billionaires in the Orbán package, the Bokros package, Gyurcsány and the 2012 Matolcsy package can also hide. The price of the Orbán package is paid by the Hungarian people: the passed-on tax increases boost the price increase, as the increase in food prices is further increased by the doubling of taxes on seasonal workers or the extension of the public health product tax on food products, plus the record fee of HUF 405. We see the 40 percent increase in bread, and we understand why four fifths of Hungarians are saving on their stomachs. But we can also look at the consumer confidence index: minus 40 points, this has fallen into a historic depth. While people are moaning the brutal burdens of the Orbán package, you are doubling the PM's salary. 260,000 forints for a teacher 4.9 million forints for Viktor Orbán. All this after the country was filled with thousands of billions of fidesz economic backland, including your family members and your personal cashier. Thus, at the speed of light, Lőrinc Mészáros became the richest man in Hungary, and so your father, Győző Orbán, and his daughter Ráhel Orbán became a multibillionaire. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and his son-in-law, István Tiborcz. Prime Minister! Do you really think that in such a livelihood crisis, [[The president's ringing again.]] Can he afford anything? [[Applause in the lines of Dialogue, DK and Momentum.]]
u2022-06-27-143	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2022-06-27-144	Mr President, On April 3, there was an election in Hungary. These lies you've told here, they've been told on every channel, every screen, every meeting. People have told me how they feel about what they've been given. And then they didn't stop, but they continue, as I see it, and on Sunday, people told you that we congratulate you, two-thirds of the Fidesz again, and the rest of you. I do not think that this style is worth continuing instead of a serious, meaningful, factual debate. But I don't have to judge the opposition, and I have one thing to do to remind you again that we're going to continue to do the same thing as God gives us in the next four years. Expect to happen to you what you want to do to us. So I can tell you, for the record, that there is and there will be no austerity package. It was a austerity in the Gyurcsány government, supported by you, and during the MSZP governments, back in 1994 and 96. We have set out four objectives, which we will definitely protect: instead of austerity, we will protect the results that we have achieved earlier, pension, full employment, reduction in wages and family support. By the way, if you look around this country, wherever you go, you can see that at this moment in Hungary people are more than happy to have more than 16 percent wage increase this year, and you can see this in the resorts, you can see it in everyday life, but if that would not be enough, you can read it from the results of the interim elections held this Sunday. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-27-145	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I'll give you the floor in a minute. Here you go.
u2022-06-27-146	Thank you. You're threatening me, Prime Minister. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] , it remains a fact that if it is not a lie, but, let's say, the difficulty of getting to know the truth is when your article, which you wrote in 2006, appeared in the Hungarian Nation with the title of a three-part, wonderful series,. So much for the truth and the lies and the truth. [[17.00]] How happy people are with their raises and how happy they are with their pension raises and how happy they are about raising their family allowance, raising their children's money, yeah, oops, they didn't happen, so ask them. It doesn't seem to be reflected in yesterday's vote. [[Bence Rétvári: Not yet! You've been saying that for ten years.]] But I want you to rest assured that the two stories will come together nicely. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] So... what is austerity, which remains austerity, is called an adjustment, so even if you say there will be no austerity, you call it a budgetary adjustment. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] But the austerity of the Orbán package (the president bell rings) Orbán package. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2022-06-27-147	Dear Parliament, The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor, Prime Minister.
u2022-06-27-148	Thank you. So, while we are already standing in front of the public, I would like to reiterate that, despite the lies that you have just heard, there will be no austerity and no austerity in Hungary. Despite war inflation and despite the economic crisis, the Hungarian government is able to protect the family support system, pensions and jobs. You can count on that. Whatever the opposition says, in times of war, we will be able to fulfill these commitments. The fact that you couldn't find my article many years ago can be bridged, I'd be happy to send it to you. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Satisfaction, of course, is out of the question. These terms you use are not in our dictionary. For a very long time, Hungarian people will not have reason to be satisfied to say that they live the way they want to. But there is one thing you can be sure of: that the path that leads to and on which you are going can be counted on us, the governing parties; we are with them, we will protect them, and we will do everything we can to ensure that families get along, and that the period when you govern will never return to Hungary. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-27-149	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes and Péter Ungár, MEPs of LMP, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "When will the government act? It's an address. Congressman Péter Ungár has the floor.
u2022-06-27-150	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Prime Minister, Dear Parliament, During the coronal virus epidemic, social workers have fought heroically every day to save as many inmates as possible. Nevertheless, they did not receive the one-off HUF 500,000 wage supplement that they deserved, as they were working too hard. My question is, when will the social workers receive the one-time payment of HUF 500,000? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the lines of Momentum and LMP.]]
u2022-06-27-151	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2022-06-27-152	Thank you, Mr. President. At the beginning of this year, workers in the social sector received a 20% wage increase, and if the economy does as we want, we will not forget them. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-27-153	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2022-06-27-154	Thank you for the floor. The 20 percent wage increase was largely taken away by inflation [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] But that's not what my question was about. My question was that the extra work that they did so often even had to move into institutions, that people with disabilities went personally to an epidemic threat, so they did not receive the 500 thousand HUF single wage supplement that the healthcare sector correctly received for the extra work. When will employees in the social sector receive the one-off 500,000 forints crown virus wage supplement? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the lines of DK and LMP.]]
u2022-06-27-155	Thank you. The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2022-06-27-156	First of all, everyone who worked in the social sphere either before or during the epidemic or after the epidemic, I would like to express my thanks; thank you for the work you have done. And according to the rules of Hungarian labour law, we paid all the money that was due for any overwork. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-27-157	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, Gyula Földesi, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:. Are you aware of the suspicion of illegal campaign funding with the representative of the Dialogue? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-06-27-158	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let's talk overseas. Dear Madam Secretary, Although we have already passed this year's election campaign, it is worth recalling that it was once again loud from the illegal tactics of the left. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] It was suspected that Szabó Timea's left-wing campaign could be financed by money from drug sales. (Development in the ranks of the opposition. ) During the campaign period, a recording of László Fischer, a business associate of the wife of Mayor László Kiss of Óbuda, DK talked to an unknown person about the fact that Szabó Timea, co-president of the Dialogue, the left-wing candidate of the 10th constituency in Budapest, was consumed by his election campaign. During the discussion, several ongoing businesses were discussed, but were not detailed. Fischer, on the other hand, told me that the money was coming from Marbella, but traveling the money is not easy. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] He also added that they can bring 300-400 million forints per corner into the country. [[Dr. János Lázár: This is the Spanish job!]] Then, when an unknown conversation partner asks what it is really about, [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] All Fischer said was, I think it's cocaine, it's a block, a kilo, a boat. [[Eszter Vitalos: Oops! That would be nasty.]] There are also several references to the method by which money should be brought to Hungary by circumventing the relevant legislation. [[Dr. János Lázár: Shame!]] The name of Gábor Patek was also mentioned on Kispesten several times on the recording, who previously organized the election campaign of Mayor Gergely Karácsony. All these circumstances give rise to suspicions of the crime of drug trafficking and money laundering. It is worrying that the left is not afraid of these means when it comes to gaining power. Dear Madam Secretary, In view of what has been said, I would like to ask you that there is a suspicion of illegal campaign funding with the representative of the Dialogue. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Brenner Koloman: When will you confess?]]
u2022-06-27-159	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister of Justice Judit Varga. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
u2022-06-27-160	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, According to Hungary's Fundamental Law, support from the central budget can only be granted to organisations whose activities are transparent, but this is the favorite word on the left, so that the basis for the parties' operation and budget support is legal and transparent. The parties must submit an annual report on their management, according to which they comply with the laws and the State Audit Office checks the parties receiving budgetary support every two years. Honourable Congressman, The party law provides a clear framework for the funding of parties. You may not accept financial contributions from a legal person or an organisation without legal personality, such an organisation or such person, nor can the party accept financial contributions from any other State, foreign organisation or non-Hungarian citizen. (Believe Dezső in the notary seat) Replaced by Sándor Szabó.) In addition to the rule of law, we see that the overseas department of the Gyurcsány Party does not take responsibility for the fact that it is so loudly lance-breaking every day, in the case of a woman who is not in the Chamber. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] And the left is deeply silent. This case also shows that nothing on the left ever has consequences. [[A statement from opposition representatives: Oh, my God! Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] What you have outlined is not only a legal concern, but also from a moral point of view, because it can also be a serious violation of democratic responsibility towards voters. If this suspicion is confirmed that a kind of illicit party funding has been implemented by the Dialogue [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] so the party can expect serious punishment, because the law states that the total amount of aid must be repaid, i.e. it must be paid into the state register, and at the same time the party support established by the central budget must be reduced. [[Bence Tordai: Would we still be listening to Minister Rogán about cocaine?!]] I ask the congressman to accept my reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-27-161	Thank you for the Minister's reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in a minute. Here you go.
u2022-06-27-162	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It seems that the leftist's anti-corruption commitment has fallen to dust, right now, in white dust. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Intercoms from the opposition.]] Based on the information we have learned so far, the money hunger of the Left campaign could be extinguished with white powder. [[A statement from the opposition: Who wrote the rejoinder?]] Czech President Zeman's campaign in the '90s funny [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] said that his campaign bus was driven by diesel and Becherovka. Looks like the campaign ship of the Hungarian Left in 2022 went with cocaine didn't get far. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] Just like this weekend in Budapest, they didn't get far, they're drifting aimlessly at the endless sea. [[Gergely Arató: You didn't get far in the election either!]] Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-27-163	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The Minister has a rejoinder. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-06-27-164	Thank you very much. I'll be brief. As the Member pointed out, on the basis of the voice recorded in the press, there is a suspicion that the congresswoman's campaign could have been financed by money from the sale of drugs. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] That's a terrible thing to say, by the way. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] [[17.10]] And by the way, if we look only at the laws, if the party accepts forbidden support, then it has not been guaranteed transparency and could have obtained an advantage contrary to the law. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Délegyháza! Szabolcs Szabó: Let's talk about Völner! Intervention from the opposition: Suspicion!]] So it is time for the dear lady of the left, led by Ferenc Gyurcsány, who buried Hungarian democracy daily, to assume responsibility, as she also has a moral responsibility for the voters. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-27-165	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, István Simicskó, a representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:. How can we ensure that the extra-profit-paying people cannot even shift their burden to the Hungarian population to the smallest extent? It's an address. [[Intruders from the opposition: We don't!]] You have the floor.
u2022-06-27-166	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Although there was an enthusiastic shouting from the other side, I would like to ask the secretary, not you in this serious situation, if you will allow me. Dear Madam Secretary, There is a prolonged war going on in our neighbourhood, and it is clear that this is also a shock to the world economy, and it can also cause a serious global economic crisis. The problem is compounded by a misguided Brussels sanctioning policy, which we can also see well. Under these circumstances, the Fidesz-KDNP government must take responsible decisions for the interests of Hungarians, and in these circumstances a budget should be established. The most important thing for us Christian democrats is a budget, because we are also a party of families to reflect Christian Democratic values in the budget, so support for families is provided to a sufficient degree. What we see is that the current draft budget contains guarantee elements as it is a growing family support system, the HUF 3225 billion is a sufficient guarantee that families will receive support and opportunity in a worthy way. What we need to look at is to improve the fate of families, make it easier, and we see that, yes, the budget gives us sufficient guarantees. In such a situation, however, it is extremely important that we do not place burdens on the shoulders of families, on the shoulders of people, but on those sectors who gain extra profit from the difficulties caused by war. So the government makes the right choice when it places extra profit on banks, tobacco dealers, insurance companies, energy companies, and airlines. An airline's leader gets caught up in unworthy statements, it's outrageous, he doesn't want to be involved in solidarity and he attacks the government. The use of extra-profit tax is necessary, so we can protect Hungarian people and families from rising energy prices. Dear Madam Secretary, My question concerns how the government can ensure that the payment payers are not able to pass on the extra-profit tax to people to the least extent possible. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-27-167	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The immediate question will be answered by Minister Judit Varga. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2022-06-27-168	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The economic situation caused by the war in our neighbourhood poses serious challenges not only for Europe, but also for the whole world, and in this the most important task of the Hungarian government is to protect Hungarian people. For this reason, in such a war period, we expect large companies to make their share of defence and security expenditures because of the market situation caused by the war, when they acquire extra profit. It is the government's job to protect jobs, families, the family support system, the cost reduction and jobs, pensions. At the same time, we believe that large companies have the task of complying with the requirements of the legislation and respecting it, helping to protect Hungarian people and Hungarian families. Unfortunately, we can see that a certain large company is already openly opposed to government measures. We find this unacceptable, and we reject it in the strongest possible terms. However, the tone that this leader of a certain large company struck against the Hungarian government, on the basis of the complaints received to us, on the basis of complaints received for consumer protection, unfortunately, is also common to the travelling public. It's completely unacceptable. In particular, the transfer of the extra-profit tax to the previously sold tickets has already begun. Thus, it is clear that the management of the company owes an apology primarily to Hungarian people, Hungarian travelers. The number and weight of complaints against a specific company required an effective investigation, since we need to prevent future infringements. For this reason, as Minister of Professional Governance of the Consumer Protection Authority, I ordered a discussion last week to monitor compliance with the requirements of the law on the operation of a large company that protects consumers, and it will continue to continue throughout the summer period. I would like to make it clear to everyone that if anyone tries to pass on their extra-profit special tax to the Hungarian people, we will levy even higher taxes on it, we will immediately launch an investigation and we will punish these large companies, because the price of this war will not have to be paid to the Hungarian people. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-27-169	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2022-06-27-170	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Thank you very much for your reply, Minister. Dear Parliament, I think it is particularly important that the state can and can carry out its so-called stabilisation task in such circumstances. Here, of course, it is essential to ensure order and security, but it is also necessary to stimulate the economy, and in this way it is able to achieve, through economic growth, sufficient room for manoeuvre for all sectors and to maintain the system of family support. It is very important that the two funds have been set up by the government, the Retirement Fund and the Defence Fund, as this is also a lifelike response, a only right decision in a positive direction to avoid difficulties. We saw what left-wing governments did when crises hit Hungary, in all cases Hungarian families were burdened with various austerity measures. It is right and we support this government policy. We really need to fight back, reject all these loopholes and offensive attacks on the government, when companies producing extra-profits have to take on public burdens and help in trouble. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-27-171	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Minister has a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2022-06-27-172	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, We know that the laws in Hungary apply to everyone. Taking consumer protection into account, we have seen that more than 150 complaints have already been received from the company concerned in recent years. It's still coupled with the insufferable style he's trying to bypass the laws. And he's already started a political mood action, because we know he's been bombing passengers with unsolicited e-mails in the last few days. These messages have also triggered a number of consumer complaints, a number of such complaints have been received by the Ministry, and passengers have indicated their indignation that the content and tone of the message is unacceptable, and that the airline uses personal data arbitraryly for its own political purposes and moody purposes in such a way that it would have requested the consent of those concerned. So they asked for the Ministry's help. The complaints have been examined, and since we believe that the practice may be a cause for data protection abuse, we have therefore sought out the competent National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information to investigate the case. We will not allow any company to use the personal data of Hungarian people for its own political purposes. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Interventions from the opposition benches: Ooh! A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-27-173	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, It's 5:17 p.m., and we've reached the end of the immediate questioning. [[Interventions from the opposition benches: Ooh!]] We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members to check that their cards have been placed in the ballot counting machine. Dear Parliament, It follows from the publication of the Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part on the establishment of the Common Aviation Area, T/286. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/286. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 169 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, In line with our adopted agenda, decisions are now being taken to accept the responses to the interpellations that have been made today. Kálmán Olga, representative of DK, I/288. No response to interpellation was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 118 votes in favour, 48 votes against and 6 abstentions. [[17.20]] Z. Kárpát Dániel, representative of Jobbik, at I/67. No response to interpellation was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 118 votes in favour, 55 votes against and one abstention. Anna Russian, representative of Momentum, I/380. No response to interpellation was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 117 votes in favour, 55 votes against and one abstention. Sándor Szabó, representative of MSZP, I/379. No response to interpellation was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 118 votes in favour, 55 votes against and one abstention. István Apáti, representative of Mi Hazan, representative of I/359. No response to interpellation was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 118 votes in favour, 55 votes against and one abstention. Rebecca Szabó, representative of the Dialogue, I/378. No response to interpellation was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 118 votes in favour, 54 votes against and one abstention. Bakos Bernadett, representative of LMP, I/376. No response to interpellation was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 117 votes in favour, 56 votes against and one abstention. Mr László Varju, representative of DK, I/370. No response to interpellation was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 117 votes in favour, 56 votes against and one abstention. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the decisions, and now I'm ordering a two-minute tech break. (Sunning: 17.23-17.25 President: István Jakab Note: Dr. Winner Vinnai and Sándor Szabó)
u2022-06-27-174	Ladies and gentlemen, We'll start our work. I ask my fellow Members, who want to leave, to do so as quietly as possible. Thank you for your understanding. We'll get back to work. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Varga, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question, "What should you do?" It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2022-06-27-175	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear House, I am deeply sorry, Minister, that you are not here, but you are personally involved in the matter, and you know who it is, I am having a heartbreaking conversation with an old-time-bihari farmer who deals with sheep farming. His name is Uncle Zsiga, and he's been telling me these past few days that after years of decent work, he's come to the point of having no idea how to feed his animals. He had already written a letter to the Minister, perhaps even spoken in person, but all he could afford was a meaningless reply instead of help, and by now Uncle Zsiga was finally satisfied. She complained to me with a tearful eye that you had distributed agricultural subsidies to friends in Budapest, who were not capable of anything, near NER, in the vicinity of Berettyóújfalu and the pastures in the area. They gave up land to people who know as much about pasture as they can see from the windows of their luxury ramps. Budapesters have never dealt with livestock farming or agriculture in their lives, and obviously they didn't plan anything like this, but today they own all the pastures. Meanwhile, because of your weak government forints, feed prices have run so far that the feeding of animals is now untraceable. A single ball of alfalfa in the area costs 18-20,000 forints, and the tax increases in the brutal Orbán austerity package only make things worse. Uncle Zsiga is now at a point where he can't feed his animals properly, and he simply can't sell them, because he has an obligation to keep them till autumn. According to Uncle Zsiga, if there is no intervention, not only the animals, but also the families who care for them are dying of hunger, while the fidesz buddies, the pastures distributed among NER buddies, stand on a parlag. Let me ask the question instead of Uncle Zsiga, because he cannot do this to you now, if you are not willing to give him a meaningful answer or help: what should the farmers of Hajdú-bihar do now? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time by jogging the bell.]] Let your animals starve to death, sell them illegally? Should he or she end their lives so that they do not suffer hunger? What should the person you and the Orbán government put in an impossible position?
u2022-06-27-176	Congressman, the screen doesn't work, it's just my watch, and I'm going to signal it to my fellow Members later on, until they restore the screen, and I'm going to signal it when the time is up. [[Zoltán Varga: I was listening, but I didn't see it, really.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Deputy Minister Sándor Farkas. Deputy Minister, you have the floor.
u2022-06-27-177	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Your statements and suggestions, hidden behind the name of Uncle Zsiga, can be felt that they are not the manifestations of the man who is responsible for keeping animals, because today, who is responsible for keeping animals, he knows that this situation can at present be largely attributed to drought damage from the point of view of feed supply. I'm just saying this to you. [[Zoltán Varga: I'll give you his phone number, tell him.]] I'm just saying to you, it's a significant part of a drought damage. Unfortunately, the first reaping mass feeds and growths also have a weak crop average, the next virtually no, and that is the biggest problem. [[17 .30]] Hiding this question in such a political environment is a little strange, especially as a professional who has not seen one animal before, not two, not a hundred, not a thousand. At the same time, it is important to know that a responsible farmer understands his problem, and I add that if this is always true, there is a crop on the tarlon, a crop in the granary, and a crop waiting for him. Now, this has to be achieved. [[Zoltán Varga: Uncle Zsiga doesn't.]] I know that there is no such thing as this man, Uncle Zsiga, but he already accepts from me that farming, as a word of farming, means farming; I do not come up with it, I do not think differently, but that in the meantime the pastures had their owner, they have their new owner. These owners use these pastures. [[Zoltán Varga: Not used. Lot. Erzsébet Németh: That's the problem.]] These owners use these pastures. [[Zoltán Varga intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] I'm sorry, I didn't say anything about your speech. I'm sorry. But I would like to say this firmly, that farming today is a fundamental issue. I understand your problem. It's a major drought damage. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-27-178	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Balassa, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister for Economic Development:. Will the government alleviate the housing crisis in Szombathely? It's an address. Congressman Péter Balassa has the floor.
u2022-06-27-179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I'm sorry Mr. Secretary isn't here. I would like to speak on a matter that does not concern you very much, but I would like to speak with your constituents. It could have been the title of a flat in Szombathely! The housing parks in Hungary seem to grow in mushroom mode and are building a lot of real estate, but it must also be said that Hungary is under threat of housing crisis. It affects thousands, tens of thousands of people. But why do I say that? I wish to speak for the sake of St. Martin's city, for the sake of Szombathely. In 2016, when it was St. Martin's Memorial Year, the Hungarian government gave 800 HUF - 800 million in support of the St. Martin Memorial Year. At that time, in the municipality, I suggested that we build a St. Martin's apartment. The then Fidesz Szombathely city council voted against this. If you will allow me, I would like to tell you my experience: when I hold a residential forum or a residential host hour, this usually happens weekly or monthly, about seven out of ten families have always initiated and asked for assistance in housing. Why am I saying this, and why is it called the government's willingness to alleviate the housing crisis in Szombathely? In the letter, I wrote to Minister, in an oral question, that I would like to ask the Hungarian government to support the construction of 100 apartments. If you look at the features of Szombathely, you can see very well that because of the proximity of Austria, there are many people living in Eastern Hungary, but there are plenty of people who are lynching the local government on a daily basis for local government rentals. If we look at the data now, about 15-20 families are trying to get housing help for an apartment. This is very, very difficult for the municipality to solve or actually support. Therefore, I ask and initiate that the city of St. Martin be given the opportunity for the Hungarian government to support a 100-accommodation housing program and help the people of Szombathely [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] for the people living there and for the workers. Thank you. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2022-06-27-180	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2022-06-27-181	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The rental versus own-owned housing debate is not new here in Parliament and society. Experience in recent years has shown that Hungarian people want to live in basically own houses and create homes for their families. Today about 90 percent of the Hungarian population live in own-owned apartments, so nine out of every ten Hungarians live in their own ownership. In terms of ownership, we are also high in the EU, with less than 70 percent of the EU's population living in own-owned property. In Germans, half of the real estate is like that, half of it. So in other countries, in other societies, this is a matter of social debate, of polarity. The government's task is to adapt politics to the needs of the Hungarian people, which is why we support Hungarians in setting up a family, creating a home, creating a home of their own. That's why we introduced the CSOK, which is why families have preferential loans, such as baby shower loans. In order to support access to our own property, we reduced the VAT on new apartments to 5 percent, notary fees, and simplified the administration for the purchase of our own property. So the government is trying to help home creation by all means possible. That is the case at present in this debate. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-27-182	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Endre Tóth, representative of the Momentum, wishes to ask the Home Office a question: Will you spend the rest of the year raising your teacher's wages? It's an address. It is for Congressman Endre Tóth.
u2022-06-27-183	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Looks like you're gonna answer it. Many speeches have a lot of bottoms; the saying holds, and unfortunately, there have been a lot of foggy rumors on this topic lately, vague promises, although the profession would like to get a clear answer to this question at the beginning of summer. In particular, there is a missed strike in the air, where trade unions demanded a 45 percent wage increase immediately. So I would ask the Secretary of State to answer the following question with a clear word, a clear yes or a no. Does the government plan to charge the central budget to raise teachers' wages for the rest of the year? Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your clear answer. [[Applause in the benches of Momentum.]]
u2022-06-27-184	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question is answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-06-27-185	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I can clearly tell you that this year, too, this academic year, there has been a teacher's wage increase, and there will be a teacher's wage increase in the following year and in the next academic year, and even in the following year. This is at least the third time we've heard this today. We do this despite the fact that when there was a crisis, the left did not increase wages, but reduced wages, not extra wages, but took wages from teachers. We can do this because the budget just submitted contains HUF 933 billion more for educational purposes than when we inherited the budget figures. If you would like to give the teachers HUF 933 billion more for education, please support next year's budget. But I would remind you that in the election campaign, in your election program, you wrote to the left, or you wrote that you would abolish the entire teacher qualification system, which is now in place, and there have been nearly a hundred thousand ratings in this system, which is a good part of the teachers, who are teachers from I. to teacher II. They are classified as category, approximately HUF 30 thousand plus. If you guys canceled that, this plus would be nothing. In addition, you are dealing with, your fellow parties and Katalin Cseh, to prevent Hungary from getting its own EU funds, which we have said about EU funds, that we would also like to spend significantly on educators' wage increases, worth hundreds of billions, hundreds of billions. That is why you are working, and you say that we have the power to change with the rule of law mechanism, to enforce the law, and why we do not use it. Commissioner, we have waited long enough for what we need, that is the clear action that we are demanding of the European Court of Justice. [[Sic!]] In connection with the four-and-a-half-billion-dollar EU support, Katalin Cseh, who has been involved in fraud, therefore, demands from the European Commission not to pay the funds that Hungary would devote to, among other things, raising wages for teachers. It would be good for you to discuss this among yourselves, honourable Member, and then bring this up in the Hungarian Parliament as a subject. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2022-06-27-186	Thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Imre Komjáthi, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior:. What does the government do to solve the problems in nursing homes? You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-06-27-187	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, I am pushing this question again because many workers, many working people, are forced to work away from their elderly parents and grandparents. I'm talking about people whose home care is either difficult or impossible. These workers, working people, want to keep their elderly parents and grandparents safe. A month ago, I asked what the government would do to solve the problems in nursing homes. I have done this because the State Audit Office has made some very serious statements, and has made some very serious findings on this subject. [[17.40]] Of 940 institutions, about 95,000 are located in one in ten elderly homes where there are not enough caregivers or too crowded. It was also reported that the number of social institutions fell by almost 4 percent between 2010-19, while taking care of 2 percent more people. The number of elderly caregivers has decreased by more than 9 percent. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said that we can see the growing demand for church schools, hospitals and nursing homes, which are an important part of our work. However, this is why I am asking about the state-owned institutions why they allow and for how long such conditions characterize nursing homes. What measures are being taken to address the problems presented in the SAO report? Do you plan to increase resources for municipal and state-owned social institutions this year and in the coming years? Why do not the waiting lists of nursing homes and other institutions be published? Please answer my question. I look forward to your reply. Thank you.
u2022-06-27-188	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári will answer the question. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-06-27-189	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, it is important to be able to provide for older people in the best possible conditions, which is why in the residential institutions the level of state aid that we pay for all beneficiaries has been significantly increased over the past few years. In the care of the elderly, this rose from HUF 635,000 to HUF 1 million 125 thousand, and in the case of patients with dementia, where the need is higher, it rose from HUF 710,000 to HUF 1 million 338 thousand. When I look at the boarding of the elderly, in recent years it has been about HUF 80 billion that we have spent on this every year, and the framework for caring for the elderly in the home has also increased, not reduced, as you said, but increased with 4918 new seats. I can also agree with what you said, that it's good to be able to visit her as close to her living relatives as possible. That is why it was very striking when the Metropolitan Municipality tried to settle this issue by wanting to buy and build a property for the elderly in the capital city of Celldömölk. Even the distance is shocking. But then when the personal constellations were discovered, many things were discovered, because, that they were not, in this competition the local deputy mayor of MSZP and the member of the socialist committee were able to submit a valid and good tender, so the situation of the elderly in Budapest would have been solved by two MSZP politicians in Celldömölk by the Municipality of Budapest. Here, as if it were not in the interests of the elderly, as was the case at the home of the elderly on the road to Pest, and at the time of the coronal virus epidemic, when the mayor did not visit, and finally they had to admit that he had not been a doctor for 10 days in this nursing home. We will strive to ensure that these subsidies, as I have said to you, have increased in the previous years, that they continue to increase, and that the safety of old age for as many older people can be achieved in public care, although it is clear that all of us have primary home and family years. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-27-190	Thank you very much for your reply. Dear Parliament, Dávid Dócs, representative of Mi Hazank, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question: what can Hungarian farmers expect from the government? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2022-06-27-191	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, Agriculture and the manufacturing industry are the foundations of the Hungarian future. I say this because, despite the fact that we have foreign-owned car manufacturers or huge environmental electronics companies in Hungary, the government may refer to job creation if the money is devalued, if the salaries cannot follow inflation if the value of the goods on the shelves of the shops is increasing. The introduction of official prices cannot last forever. Only measures taken to improve the national economy and keep production in its own hands can be lasting, since we can only be independent from market fluctuations and the vulnerable line if we produce everything we can. To do so, we need to support Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises instead of multinationals, who are unable to grow their land well, either the land, machinery or breeding animals, or the necessary technology. The resulting lower yields, the lack of appropriate technology, rather than innovation, are set out in Annex XX. In the first century, the agricultural programme, which was not written on the small ones, all stamp on the sector, the quality of life of workers in the sector, and the quality of life of society as a whole. Therefore, we must strive to support farmers, to support those who are still stubbornly attached to the Hungarian land and to the livelihood of trying to make a living from it. Let us not support the multinationals who can afford further growth in the face of a crisis, but those who can become the engines of our own national economy. It is also worth considering that during the crisis we should place greater emphasis on farmers now active, including micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, so that the system of family farms can be built in our country instead of the large estate system. So my question is, how can farmers expect support measures from the government? Will there be a provision that will bring rapid and effective assistance to the development of the national economy and, in particular, agriculture and the downstream manufacturing sector? Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-06-27-192	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Deputy Minister Sándor Farkas. You have the floor, Mr. Deputy Minister.
u2022-06-27-193	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, If I wanted to answer in one word, I would say briefly yes, but it's more than that. As is certainly known to you, the Government of Hungary developed and launched in 2021 the renewed region, renewable agriculture programme, whose main goal is economic development, quality food production, green future and, of course, renewable countryside. In order to meet some of the objectives, we have also developed a set of measures. In order to implement the programme, we launched 25 calls for proposals from the autumn of 2020 with a budget of HUF 1924 billion. The calls received more than 53,000 applications, with HUF 2760 billion in support requests, out of which HUF 40,000 had already been decided to grant HUF 1820 billion. For the development of Hungarian agriculture, food industry and rural settlements, there is an unprecedented amount of resources in the period between 21-27, as the government provides 80% national additional funding for the EU's agricultural development resource. Thanks to the increased funding framework, from producer to consumer, the entire verticum can experience quality improvements that have not been seen in the history of Hungarian agriculture. The call for support for small farms was launched in October 2020 as regards the issue of support for small farms, and in particular on this issue. Applications for aid were submitted on 31 May. A total of 17 309 applications were received with HUF 94.2 billion, of which 8733 applications have been supported up to now for HUF 48 billion. I can therefore assure you that the stable situation of Hungarian farmers and of the entire agricultural sector will continue to be ensured in the coming period. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-27-194	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Sándor Berki, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice:. How many evictions are expected in Nógrád county and in the country? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-06-27-195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. On 31 May 2022, the government decree which suspended evictions expired. In the last two years, in 2020, with the exception of a few months, no action could be taken to evacuate property. There have been no official evictions, so a wave of eviction that has been gathering for two years may follow. Due to recent scandals surrounding executives, there is a suspicion that the families that are about to be evicted will not only be victims of the housing crisis, but the homes of Hungarian families will become prey on the unscrupulous gain of executives. Number of evictions: 3474 households were placed on the street in 2016, 3667 homes were closed in 2017, 3212 evictions were made in 2018, 3117 cases were implemented in 2019 and 1645 apartments were evacuated in 2020. [[17.50]] For the sake of Hungarian families, we need more effective, immediate and real help. In addition to municipalities, the state must take on a task and become part of the solution. The least they can do is give families who have lost their homes a common home. You can see what a livelihood crisis this country is headed for. We know that we are at the beginning of the crisis, that the problems are about to get deeper, that we need to come up with solutions now. Secretary of State, please answer my questions on the basis of the above. How many evictions are expected in Hungary in the period ahead? How does the government plan to avoid the upcoming social disaster? How do you intend to help the families who are about to be evicted together? Thank you for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2022-06-27-196	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary Robert Répássy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2022-06-27-197	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I'd like to clarify what case eviction may take place. In the event of the execution of a judicial decision in the home, in the event of an arbitrary discharge of an apartment and in the case of an eviction on the basis of an auction. So in all three cases, as I have said, an apartment will be evacuated on the basis of a judicial or administrative decision independent of the executor. It is also important to know that the evacuation of the apartment is voluntary in 90 percent of the cases, so about 10 percent of the cases are where people in it really have to be forced to evict. This means that about 3000 - 3,500 properties were emptied each year, and 10 percent of this, about 300 properties, can only be said for eviction. So I would like to draw the attention of this House to the fact that, on the one hand, it is not up to the free will of the enforcer to evict someone, largely depending on the voluntary departure of the person obliged to leave the apartment, and nine times out of ten cases, nine times out of ten, the person obliged to carry out the job or leave the apartment. So there are about 300 evictions per year out of the otherwise 3,000 apartments. Given that these evictions have been suspended for more than two years, I believe that those involved could be prepared for implementation and that the government has done everything in its power to protect families in an emergency. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-27-198	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Máté Kanász-Nagy, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Technology and Industry:. Does the Government not support the strictest wind energy regulation in Europe? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-06-27-199	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I hope that we can continue the debate on the authorisation and installation of wind turbines, because the situation remains that in 2016 the government adopted rules that would make the installation of wind turbines completely impossible. No wind power plant can be built and put into service within 12 kilometres of a populated area. Because of our dense settlement network, there is no point in the country that does not fall within a 12 km radius of a settlement, meaning that no wind turbines can be installed anywhere in the country. The government's policy of making wind energy impossible is completely incomprehensible and pointless. Since 2016, the government has not been able to provide a sound professional explanation of why it prohibits wind power. At the hearing of László Palkovics' presidential candidates, he said that Hungary's natural characteristics are inadequate, because only in the Móri ditch the wind blows steadily. This statement was refuted by ELTE's energy-geographic research group: the scientific fact is that wind turbines could be installed economically in almost all parts of Hungary, the wind blows everywhere. The LMP has submitted a proposal for a decision proposing the most stringent wind energy regulation in Europe, but it is possible to install wind turbines in Hungary. We have looked at the regulatory environment of European countries in terms of their safe distance from settlements and the permissible noise impact, and we have taken over the strictest ones. The protection distance from residential areas would be reduced from 12 km to 1,2 to 1.6 km, depending on the height of the wind turbine, and the wind power plant should not cause more than 35 decibels of noise in a populated area. Dear Secretary of State, Would they support Europe's strictest wind energy regulation? When can wind turbines be installed again? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the lines of MSZP and Dialogue.]]
u2022-06-27-200	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Zsófia Koncz, who will answer. You have the floor.
u2022-06-27-201	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Once again, I would like to thank you for bringing such an important topic to Parliament and for your concern for renewable energy. As I have said several times in the beginning, I fully agree with the Government's commitment to renewable energy and its production and use, and we are not only talking about green policy, we have already achieved results that I have already said here on several occasions in my speech, so I would not go into detail. In any case, it is very important that we want to be a climate neutral country by 2050, and we are making very good progress on this path, and in the meantime we are reducing emissions, but economic performance is increasing. Our country's climate protection and energy independence efforts focus on clean, smart and affordable energy, and we can actually talk about wind energy from week to week, but the geographical conditions of our country will not change, and the fact is that, given the geographical features of renewable energy, solar energy, biogenic energy production and geothermal and thermal energy are the most important. As I have already said, a professional debate on wind power has been going on in our country for years. Their impact on human health and animal life, as well as the issue of wind safety, should also be taken into account, as should we be aware of the environmental footprints of such a power plant. The demolition, recycling, disposal is a very serious task. For example, in many places the large shovels of the turbines to be liquidated are not recycled, but buried. Obviously, this is what these professional debates are about. The Hungarian natural conditions therefore favour solar energy most of the renewable energy sources, so the government considers the use and development of solar power plants to be justified and appropriate. By 2030, solar capacity will be increased to 6,000 megawatts, and we are on the right track in this regard. We can achieve this in 2025-26. I call on the Member to support our ideas on this. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-27-202	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mária Kállai, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Culture, responsible for innovation: how does the Government support children's summer experience and healing camps this year? It's an address. Congresswoman's got the floor.
u2022-06-27-203	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Madam Deputy Minister, Dear Parliament, The holiday has started, and every year, every summer, it is very important to see how children can spend their summer vacations meaningfully. It is a pleasure to organize the camps this year as well. As early as spring, parents' demand for different camps was clearly seen, since it is very important for children to spend their summer vacation meaningfully, interestingly and safely. I also consider it important for children to spend as much time and experience as possible in offline space instead of online space. Thank God, if we look around, there are plenty of camps that offer opportunities. In addition to daycare camps, sports, nomads, adventure camps, traditional camps, church camps and various, even robotics camps are very popular. The palette is wide, so parents can choose well. However, we also know that there are families that we need to support in order for their children to get to the daycare camp, sleepover camp, even to Lake Balaton. For them, the Erzsébet camps of course offer a great alternative, in which we offer sports, lifestyle, art, science, faith, educational, traditional and more interesting professions. For children with multiple disadvantages or disadvantages, disabled children, long-term sick children, such a summer week is particularly important, be it in any part of the country. We know that over the years, the Hungarian government, the Ministry itself, various civil society communities have also provided a number of support to participate in experiential, healing and rest camps. Madam Deputy Minister, I ask with respect how the government supports children's summer recreation and healing camping this year, what opportunities we offer for families in need. Thank you very much. [[18.00]]
u2022-06-27-204	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Eszter Vitalyos, Deputy Minister. You have the floor.
u2022-06-27-205	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I think that it can be a lifelong experience for all children and young people, what happens to them in summer camp, because here the first friendships are made, these are the experiences that will then accompany them throughout the year at school in September. Since 2012, the Government of Hungary has provided a system of Erzsébet camps, allowing many tens of thousands of children to camp each year in sleep or day care and to participate in various children's programmes throughout the year. Among the camp types we organize family camps, healing, diabetes and forest camps, and Erzsébet Christmas has been organized year after year since 2016. While, in the beginning, I am talking about the year 2012, 30,000 people camped, until the end of this year, the organizer Erzsébet Foundation is expecting 175-180 thousand participants. Since 2016, more than half a million children have participated in the Erzsébet camps, and the total number of investments could increase by tens of thousands in the future. I am happy to inform you that the Erzsébet camps started again this year, the first groups arrived on 19 June to the shore of Lake Balaton, Zánka and Fonyódliget. The camps run for ten to ten weeks until 26 August, with a total of 35,000 campers waiting for the Erzsébet Foundation. The capacity has also increased, at the same time about 3,400 people can stay in Zanka and 800 people can take vacations in Fonyódliget from week to week. We also consider it important to strengthen the feeling of belonging to the national community in connection with the programmes, so that children from abroad can camp in the Erzsébet camps in Hungary. I am very pleased that every year there is greater participation in these camps, and the safety in the camp is guaranteed in a controlled and closed area, as well as 24-hour pediatric service. For us, the greatest recognition is the happy childish smile, which we have had a million times since departure, and I hope that this number will increase by magnitude in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-27-206	Thank you very much, Madam Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, László Földi, representative of KDNP, would you like to ask the Minister of Justice a question: - Consumer rights can be low-cost? It's an address. Speaking of Congressman László Földi.
u2022-06-27-207	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The state has a prominent role in protecting consumer rights, since market players, from micro-enterprises to large international firms, are in a very different position than consumers, who are to a certain extent vulnerable. Appropriate customer information, maintaining qualitative and quantitative criteria, and good complaint handling all contribute to consumer satisfaction, health, safety and confidence in commercial practice, the latter being one of the most important factors in the functioning of a market economy. It is for consumer protection authorities to reduce this vulnerability as far as possible and, if necessary, to force the full enforcement of consumer rights from service providers by means of the instruments laid down by law. Dear Secretary of State, Ryanair airlines typically offer low cost flights in Hungary. The responsibility of this company has been highlighted in aviation, but rather than an exemplary attitude, its controversial behaviour has led to a very mixed picture. In my opinion, the reaction of the manager of this airline over the last few days is not worthy of having more words about it within these walls, but shows some insight into the attitude of the management of the company, as regards the follow-up to Hungarian legislation. Dear Secretary of State, An airline can offer a lower quality service, but dangerous exceptions cannot be allowed in the enforcement of consumer rights simply because it has a different understanding of certain issues or if it considers its own profits more important than full compliance with consumer protection legislation. I therefore ask the question with respect: can consumer rights be low-cost? I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-27-208	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary Robert Répássy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2022-06-27-209	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Since we have already discussed Ryanair in this House today, I would just like to briefly reiterate the Government's position on this matter. (The chair was appointed by Dr. Lajos Oláh, Vice-President of the Parliament.) The Government considers it unacceptable and strongly rejects Ryanair's transfer of the airline's extra-profit tax to passengers, thereby achieving a new extra-profit collection. We expect that the extra-profit individuals will be paid by all companies themselves and that they will not be burdened by the population, because the price of the war will not have to be paid by the Hungarian families. However, as regards Ryanair, not only did passengers receive notifications of transfer of the extra-profit tax, but the Consumer Protection Authority has also experienced a number of consumer complaints against the airline every year. Most of these complaints relate to cancellations of flights, inadequate information, baggage handling and insufficient communication with passengers. I could say that this is what the government has now experienced, what it means to be able to speak to passengers in a tone and style known as a low-cost airline. Due to the transfer of the extra-profit tax, the Government Office of Budapest has immediately launched the consumer protection authority procedure against the airline. In addition, due to the large number of complaints by the public, the Ministry of Justice ordered, on 22 June, an extraordinary consumer protection investigation into the operation of Ryanair's airline. Honourable Congressman, The tone that Ryanair's management has struck against the Hungarian government, against the Hungarian government's member in the last few days, on the basis of complaints, is common to the company's passenger population, which is unacceptable. In particular, Ryanair owes an apology to passengers in particular. Thank you very much for hearing my reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-27-210	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Lot. Erzsébet Németh, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister for Economic Development:. Why are they ignoring one of the most fundamental rights, ownership? It's an address. Lot. Erzsébet Németh should take the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2022-06-27-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ownership of property in statutory cases, with full, unconditional and immediate compensation, may be stated by your Fundamental Law. In the salad law before us, however, the area of Vörösmarty, Podmaniczky and Széchenyi in the capital is designed for state ownership, so that they can then hand it over to District V. There is no compensation, although the draft itself indicates that this may constitute an infringement of property rights. It's like you're bringing me into my house to move out because you're handing it over to the district council for property management. The reason why they break their own laws is a vague reference to the creation of community spaces and the improvement of the quality of life of the population, which is a good effort, a pity that they failed to include this in the 2007 CXXIII. Law as an objective of public interest, which may serve as a reason for expropriation. The lie of the district, that after the Christmas market, the Vörösmarty Square remained dirty, is not worth mentioning, because in the cleaning after the fair, the last grease stain was removed. Is the real goal being to make the amount that can be taken from the lease of the territory, instead of the opposition capital, enrich the government-like District V, or to banish the week as one of the regular reward walls of their army in the field that hates intellectuality? Would the Prime Minister's son-in-law, in the construction of his estates in the area, prefer to negotiate with the leg-to-back construction authority of District V rather than with the capital? By the way, I understand that there are significant developments in Széchenyi Square as well. Mr. Secretary, if, in the election due in two years' time, the downtown may be in opposition hands, who does this government intend to pass on the trust rights to, Slippery? Thank you for your reply. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]] [[18.10]]
u2022-06-27-212	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Secretary of State, please.
u2022-06-27-213	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The government and the capital of István Tarlós have not seen a large scale development, renovation or investment in the nation's capital for a hundred years. I say that I can rightly say that the historic downtown of Budapest has been rebuilt and beautiful in the years after 2010. One of the key elements of this was the renewal of the historical public squares of downtown Pest, the V. district. In 2019 Vörösmarty and Podmaniczky tér were completely renewed, and the green spaces of Széchenyi tér have undergone a professional parking. The renewal of Kossuth tér was the wedge of the downtown reconstruction series in Pest. The nation's main square provides for a number of mass events, even demonstrations, but it is always a clean and clean green environment for visitors. Since 2010, József Rádor Square, Ferenciek Square, Martyrs Square and Petőfi Square have been renewed in District V, together with Piarista. Unfortunately, none of this can be said of Széchenyi, Podmaniczky and Vörösmarty Square. Instead of pride, our renewed public spaces in the maintenance of the capital have become a stain on the capital. The place of organized parks was replaced by lack of need, neglect, burnt-out grass, his eyes. The government therefore proposes to the Parliament that instead of the bad farmer, or the Municipality of Budapest, choose a farmer who will treat the public wealth he has in his possession with dignity. The V. district municipality has already demonstrated that it is suitable for this task. By transferring ownership rights, public property is not affected, as these areas remain municipal, i.e. public property, but revenues can be made to those who keep public areas in order. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-27-214	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Bence Tuzson, representative of Fidesz, applied for a post-meeting speech with the title:. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2022-06-27-215	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I've talked about the constituency several times between the walls of this House. I think it is important that I inform the Parliament of the affairs of the constituency at times and ask for your and the government's support in the matters of the constituency, in the further development of the constituency. As you know, Dunakeszi, Fot, God, Csomad, Csömör, Erdőkertes and Veresegyház are my constituency, a constituency that is one of the fastest growing regions. This development has been typical for the last decade, and it is true that the population of this region has also increased greatly, given the fact that it is an agglomeration area. It is a pleasure for us that the population is growing not only during moving in, but also as a result of the very many children being born here, I can say that it is an example for the country. For example, Dunakeszi, as a city, has the ability to maintain the population by birth, which is good news, which means that the birth rate is above the national average. Let me now talk about one of our settlements here, among the walls of the Parliament, which is one of the youngest settlements in the country, not in terms of the age of the settlement, but because they are perhaps the youngest and very low in the average age. About a quarter of the population and 25 percent of the population are under 18. This settlement is Veresegyház, and this is also a significant settlement, because this settlement has, in fact, recently developed significantly not only in terms of the appearance of the settlement, but, as I mentioned, also in terms of its number of souls. But this is also outstanding nationwide, as it is in the forefront of the fact that the population has increased by 25 percent over the last ten years. Of course, the aim is not to develop the population of any settlement to the extent that its infrastructure cannot bear, but in the event that we are talking about so large a population, we should mention that there is a need for infrastructure improvements. Thank you, by the way, for those who have worked so hard for this. I would also like to thank Mayor Béla Pásztor here, among the walls of the House, for working so much for the development of the settlement, and for not forgetting to develop infrastructure, such as educational institutions, in addition to increasing the population of the settlement. Allow me to talk about a specific educational institution, the development and development of which is underway and, for example, an example that could indeed be followed throughout the country. This is the Calvin Square Reformed Primary School, which was established in 2007. I would like to thank the pastor, Lóránt Fukk, for working so hard to make this school possible, and he was committed to going there without belonging to the church, because there was a great need for another school here. A total of 43 people started this school, but now about 500 people go to this school. In this settlement, we have to imagine that 250 children come out of primary school every year. Therefore, I think it is important that we continue to focus on the development of this school. In several steps, in 2008, when the first real estate development took place, the roof of the then vicarage was built in, and another level was drawn to expand the school. The construction of the new building started in 2011, then the municipality was able to provide serious help. In 2014, this school expanded with four more classrooms, and in 2018-19 the construction of the gym could start with a big step, which ended in 2020. And to this was another step, the construction of the so-called connecting building. In recent years, this could have been achieved through state aid, as well as most of the previous steps, with state aid of some HUF 655 million. Thank you for that. The transfer of this part of the building was completed at the end of 2021 and this part of the building was handed over on 20 March 2022. However, we would like to move on, develop this building and build the wing that is still missing. I am asking for your support in this, and I will ask for the support of the Hungarian Government in this too. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2022-06-27-216	Thank you, Congressman. Dániel Z. Kárpát applied for a post-meeting speech. It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2022-06-27-217	Mr President, Dear House, In recent months, so much opposition success, let's face it self-critically, we couldn't speak, and it is therefore more important to highlight what can be described as a success. In itself, the fact that many of us have fought against evictions for years in the interest of legal aid may not have always led to results alone. However, about two years ago, when opposition parties and civil society organisations together were able to demand with enormous volume that Hungarian people not be evicted without accommodation, we managed to achieve that even the government had stepped back one or two more, and for about a year and a half we could hardly have heard of events that would have resulted in Hungarian people losing their homes in these circumstances. It is therefore rude that, although many of us expected gestures from the government after a two-thirds election victory, not towards ourselves, but towards voters who may be in a more difficult position in Hungary, these gestures did not come in the form that the government of Hungary did not want to prolong the eviction moratorium. We can promise that we will constantly revolve the government with this question, and in all genres of Parliament we will try to get these people's situation straightened out on the ground of insight. Let it be a fair redistributive and truth package that cleans these contracts from financial waste, even by recalculating previous foreign exchange credit contracts, which are now called forint loans. At the same time, we see that the eviction season has started. We've already received the first alarms about where we need help, legal aid, and I have to tell you honestly that we received a few days later messages where the victim feels that he doesn't have the strength, has no spirit, has the energy to stand up against this system alone, and is willing to leave his home, rather than resolve his housing through relatives and friends. [[18.20]] Here, we received a reply from the Fidesz Secretary of State that if they solve the housing, then everything is fine, there is nothing to see here. The situation is not that simple at all. These people are entitled to the same rightful arrangement, decent housing, decent life planning as anyone else in this country. The Government of Hungary cannot look the other way, even if it has conducted over 23,000 evictions since 2010, and a lot of people are on the street. A very good friend of mine from Óbuda sent me his own summary, which, in essence, took a loan of approximately HUF 3.5 million at the time, we were talking about a Swiss franchise-based personal loan, he paid the various charges of this debt for years, his capital debt is currently 4.6 million, he still has an interest debt of HUF 7 million, and another executive ban is also affecting this family. The claim was purchased, so it is sold and purchased as a market kofa, first at a fraction price, but then the amounts are then collected on the family. In this context, I proposed that, at least up to the minimum pension and minimum wage, it should not be possible to make 33 percent or 50 percent bans, because these people are literally unable to replace medicines and cannot feed at the end of the month, not to mention the needs of children. It is even more painful that there are many families with children among them, so the child's interest is guaranteed that he cannot benefit from the amount, not even the small amount that the Hungarian state has allocated in this direction. And while these debts are being bought and sold as a market kofa, the family concerned failed when it wanted to ask for an annual settlement, so it wanted to see on paper how much more he owed according to the statements. So they just wanted to see how long their lives would be crippled by this situation, but they didn't have a chance to get a fair settlement as they said. Therefore, if we cannot expect a fair settlement of foreign exchange credit or credit damage in these weeks, we would expect at least one thing with great respect from the Government of Hungary, that if they leave these families in a very difficult situation, they should at least make legal arrangements so that everyone can receive their accounts without the need for any particular begging, follow-up or tricks. For everyone deserves the knowledge to see at least how far his life will be oppressed. Hence, the next step is how to provide a helping hand. We right-wingers are committed to this, and I very much hope that in the coming weeks and months, I will not only have to report tragic and not just the horror stories in this genre. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause on the opposition side.]]
u2022-06-27-218	Thank you, Congressman. After the agenda, MEP László Varju, representative of DK, asked for a speech:. What is happening in Újpesten? It's an address. I'll give you the floor in five minutes, Congressman. Here you go.
u2022-06-27-219	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, As usual, I regularly report on the possibilities that may serve as a common education in the Újpest constituency, Budapest's 11th constituency, in Újpest and Angelland. Now I would like to tell you a very positive story, and even give you a small historical look back to the fact that the 19th century is a very positive one. In the last decades of the century, Újpest was a rapidly developing large village, but in 1866 the horse railway started between the Pest Széna Square, Kálvin Square and Újpest, and contributed even more to the settlement becoming a sleeping place for the workers of Pest. Then later the railway station was built, the traffic accelerated, the ship station started operating. Let's go for a big jump. And now we're arriving at a new station. There have been a lot of changes in the period since then, but there has been a significant increase in the driving mood; the use of bicycles has become significantly greater. I think it's safe to say that as a pedestrian, you may also notice that on the mirror smooth bike path of the main street in Berlin, or on Szilágyi út and External Szilágyi road, there has been a significant increase in cycling traffic on the non-existent bicycle infrastructure of Váci út or on the Újpest bridge. Anyone who tried to ride a bicycle already agrees that Newpesten needs a quality change in order to be able to get involved safely. Among the testers, I am there myself, although I must be honest that I am under strong family pressure that this situation really needs to be improved. In addition, of course, they expect serious progress and cyclists can count on it. In Tandem, cooperation between the district and the capital starts on what can change in the Újpest area and what can help make the rounding safer and more popular. In this way, it can not only help the home-rounders who are doing this in our neighborhood, but it can also help transit traffic at the same time, in addition to providing opportunities for sports friends or those who come to work, shopping. It will be easier to ride by bicycle, while we have the definite idea that they will not take away surfaces from motor vehicles. This is also of particular importance because we already have experience in conflict in other areas, we feel, see, and therefore in the future we must also consider how this can be prevented. In this way, we may be able to get a little closer to the development of the old Újpest as a city in the formulation of the modern age. This design is started, the construction takes place in 2023. In the framework of a VEKOP competition, Újpest and the consortium of the capital will be launched as an infrastructure development. The project also affects the railway, Szilágyi út, Attila út and Váci út areas in the current context. It is worth repairing the hulls, sinking the border, painting the road, and all of this contributes to making transport good in this form as well. And we're coordinating it with the existing wheels. The municipality is working on it. We are facing careful planning and, of course, we expect everyone's opinion. Therefore, I think that if they send this, this is very important to all of us. Finally, in summary, I can say that we have a place to develop in the area of European transport, which is without doubt, but the municipality representing all of us is doing everything in its power to make the people of Újpesten feel at home and to make them all feel this development. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause on the opposition side.]]
u2022-06-27-220	Thank you very much, Congressman. Zoltán Varga, a representative of DK, applied for a post-meeting speech:. The Fidesz bezgváros has the government's face on the inhabitants without blinking! It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-27-221	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I am extremely happy that my fellow Member László Varju has been able to report positive progress and change with regard to Újpest. Less so because I can't always say that about Debrecen. Debrecen's fidesz mayor says there's nothing wrong with Debrecen. We know very well, and he knows this, that Orbán's populous, liar, and least legitimate government will continue to tear the local government open, and this year, even another swoop will be rolled on the machine, on the press, and for example, the so-called solidarity contribution has doubled in the city of Debrecen, and only in this one item will have to pay more than 3.2 billion forints. I suppose we need the expensive forints for the expensive son-in-law and the even more expensive father. I'm telling you, the mayor of Debrecen says everything's fine, because the government-town business still thinks it's a positive balance for the city. Let's just say he's proving this with an increasing amount of experience, that's actually true, because he's already faced with the sad reality that public transport in Debrecen cannot go along with the fact that it's all due to the great operation and activity of Lajos Kósa that he's dying with an annual loss compensation of 2.5 to 3 billion local governments, and he's getting closer and closer to the horror of total bankruptcy. Passengers have completely turned away from this form of transport in Debrecen, no wonder, as we know very well that fuel prices in the sky, and drivers can no longer be hunted with slow lasso and found to operate the buses in Debrecen. [[18.30]] But only in the last year, for example, we had to pay more than a billion HUF for the energy used for public lighting to the municipality, and this year I will not reveal a secret, and you probably know this price will rise again, as last year's or the previous year's price is long overdue. Contrary to government propaganda flowing from the faucet, the government refuses to help even Debrecen, the notorious Fidesz guard city. So Debrecen's Fidesz governor had two choices. One: admits that the city is bankrupt; the other: using every fidesz communication trick as quietly as possible, begins to sew the government's face around the necks of the already living Debrecen, the Debrecen workers, workers, and residents of Debrecen. I'm not gonna tell you a secret, I guess you'll figure it out: that's what's happening now. While the Orbáns destroyed the forint, inflation in the sky, the fidesz majority of the general assembly in Debrecen raised not only public transport charges, but also the school, kindergarten and nursery fees, and even the already horriable and priceless funeral costs, far above the mayor's presentation. There is no story, it has to be said: this is a desperate step from the mayor of Debrecen, because while only the so-called solidarity contribution that I was talking about earlier, with which the government is smearing not only the city of Debrecen, but almost every major settlement exceeds 3.2 billion forints, the mayor claims that the city, the municipality, expects an additional revenue of up to 170 million forints. You know, it's like kissing dead. For this reason, I think it's a shame to scare the rest of the Debrecen out of the public transport in Debrecen, because it's only a few percent of the government withdrawal, if you put it out, because we know very well that only the mayor's brain has this 170 million. Dear House, I'm warning you, even though I see that there are few, not many people in the benches of Fidesz are interested in what we're talking about. I must warn you that the mayor of Debrecen's annual raise, the open and indecent looting of the people of Debrecen, is nothing more than a desperate message to the outside world, but mostly to his own government. In the city of Fidesz there is certainly bankruptcy, thanks to Orbán's sick system and inability to rule. That's what needs to be prevented from happening. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-06-27-222	Thank you, Congressman. Balázs Barkóczi, a representative of DK, applied for a post-meeting speech. Circuit and Újpest children? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-27-223	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In the months before the elections, tens of thousands of people in the country joined the pedagogical strike as the ultimate instrument of advocacy. Annex XV is amended as follows: in the district, in the second half of February, teachers of the Róbert Károly Primary School and the György Dózsa High School and Dance Academy stood up for fundamental rights to strike. In March, the 16 teachers of Kontyfa Primary School and High School and the 15 kindergarten educators of the Contyfa Primary School and Rákospalota Consolidated Kindergarten Training School of Mozdonyvező utca joined the strike. During the strike, of course, the government had been plotting the teachers all along, but the union delegation was still not allowed through the Ministry's entrance. Then the elections were held, but in the time since the establishment of the new government, the Minister of Interior, also responsible for education, promised only one specific item, that he would not promise anything, because, as he said, the result was that there would be no layoffs and layoffs in the human sphere. After all this, it is outrageous that the Cabinet has already been able to make time for the nearly doubling of the Prime Minister's remuneration of the Prime Minister's salary. We remember that Fidesz justified this step by saying that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's salary is only enough for 23rd place in the list of EU prime ministers, while the government spends more on maintaining its own bureaucracy than on education, which is spent only 3.4 percent of the budget in proportion to GDP. It is therefore less urgent for the government to increase the salary of the Prime Minister that the wages of Hungarian teachers starting their careers from the 27 Member States of the EU are, in total, less than their 26th and only Bulgarian colleagues. In fact, they do not care that teachers have been struggling with overburden for years, that the profession is becoming increasingly precarious, that more and more older and active workers are retired teachers, and that they are becoming more and more concerned about who will teach in the future. With the amendment of the law adopted by Parliament and countersigned by President Katalin Novák, fundamental rights to strikes have now been removed from them. In this situation, it is no wonder that more and more educators from more and more teaching bodies declare civil disobedience, refusing to work in September if the government fails to meet the demands of teachers in the next two months. Ladies and gentlemen, At present, 12,000 full-time teachers are missing from education according to the survey of professional organisations. Of course, Fidesz still has the master plan to deal with the incinerating teacher shortage: Sándor Pintér would close schools and bring the upper classes together instead of helping teachers whose wages would need to be supplemented by HUF 16 300 to reach the guaranteed minimum wage, while due to the critical shortage of labour, they are looking for loaders and drivers in garbage transport with a salary of HUF 350 to 450 thousand. Fidesz therefore intends this career for the Hungarian teachers, and this is the future for the Hungarian public education, so it is no wonder that the citizens of North Pest are asking with increasing and greater despair that if all this continues, who will teach them in the future the XV. Circuit and Újpest children. There's no answer yet, just the grating, the stuffing of the buddies' pockets and the endless political cynicism of the governing parties. What the government tends to forget is that teachers are not simply child overseers, and the school is not simply a child keeper. Teachers don't just put knowledge or figures in the children's heads, and whatever the chamber president is delirious, their working hours don't end at four o'clock in the afternoon, just as their summer vacation doesn't have to do anything. Our school teachers, camping in the summer, are the ones who teach our children to think, becoming a decent adult in the world. If you have understood that, perhaps it would be wiser to listen to László Parragh's chamber president as ignorant and condescending as to the young high school teacher who said, I quote, that the sense of professionalism is the only thing keeping me on the field and that doesn't pay the bills. Because, ladies and gentlemen, whatever you lie about, you are solely and exclusively responsible for the situation that has arisen. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-06-27-224	Thank you, Congressman. After the day, Andrea Hegedüs, a representative of DK, applied for a post-municipal speech:, The water bomb, must be disarmed as a matter of urgency! Miskolc's ageing water and sewage system needs to be renovated. Here you go.
u2022-06-27-225	Mr President, Dear House, Our need is the clean, sweet drinking water that we can drink, cook, wash, and be part of our daily lives. When the tap is opened at home, however, you should also be aware that drinking water can be sourced from surface rivers, lakes or underground water supply. The water supply in Miskolc is provided by MIVÍZ Kft. You're gonna end up dead. 98.76 percent of drinking water comes from an underground water base. The water of our Bük karst sources for the water supply of the city is of high quality at national level. Trouble begins when the population is not getting enough water or water supply is failing. I've recently received several phone calls that there's a pipe break, there's water running down the street somewhere, and some people have been complaining that it's been going on all day, and it's often that the broken pipe is replaced in one place, and then another water leak ten metres away in a few days. MIVÍZ is in a sort of windmill fight with elements and government tax policy. Kft. has to set priorities between troubleshooting, so after the reported complaint, clean drinking water runs for days, even weeks, and unfortunately also sewage. [[18.40]] The problem is so old that already in the '90s the experts spoke of it as a serious threat, and the situation has deteriorated since then, because the water and sewage networks have become so old that more than 40 percent of the clean water supplied to consumers is drained and we all pay for it when the bill arrives. Unfortunately, the same is true of sewage. It's not enough to get the water into the water taps to the apartments, some of it has to be taken away, and some of it has to be driven away. It is also bad to think that, through that old system, mainly consisting of asbestos cement and plastic, not only drinking water but also sewage is leaking into the soil, causing serious environmental damage, contaminating the soil and polluting our future, it almost eliminates the environmental impact of our sewage treatment plant when it produces biogas from sewage sludge. While some Fidesz people only use water for yachting or see it flow through sewer pipes, the Democratic Coalition considers it important to renovate and clean our water base and clean up. But they have the key to the budget. You win, you work, or as they whisper behind their backs, the three-time rep of the Ludas Matyi 25. The supply of drinking water and the cleaning of waste water to settlements in the agglomeration of Miskolc is equally important. Some of the people who live there may experience how vulnerable they can be if they open the faucet and the water doesn't flow. Make sure you have enough resources to refurbish the network. And it's really damaging the whole environment. By using the right of referral, the 2012 CLXVIII on the tax on public utility lines. MIVÍZ Kft. asked the government to amend it. for more effective operation in one ear and out the other. Their little finger was not moved to finally renew Miskolc's water and sewage network. The brutal number of pipe fractures affects not only Miskolc and its surroundings, but it is a national phenomenon. Dictate, even though I don't have a lot of people here to dictate it to, I want you to take notes on what you're supposed to do. 1. The replacement of the ageing utility network. 2. Stop the loss of revenue. The cost reduction has a positive impact on the consumer's purse, but the water supplier's wallet remains empty, cannot raise a fee, and the deficit cannot be replaced by the government. Several water utilities, including MIVÍZ Kft., have drifted to the edge of the operation. Therefore, I call to the attention of the central legislators on the current maladministration, i.e. 3.: i.e. exempt water utility providers from tax! Speaking of water, I'd like to offer you a cold shower to refresh your thinking, because you've done nothing to prevent the underwater catastrophe of Miskolc and settlements with similar problems. Fidesz, let's get to work. Now I'm gonna say go for it. The water bomb must be disarmed as a matter of urgency. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and DK.]]
u2022-06-27-226	Thank you, Congresswoman. The next speaker was János Bencze, from Jobbik's group: It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-27-227	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear fellow Members, I came from the Hungarian countryside to Parliament and promised the people, friends and acquaintances that I would bring the word of the country and tell them what our problems are, because the Hungarian countryside is a non-idyllic environment. In Hungarian small and medium-sized settlements, people want to work, who live there and who remain there, and who do not work in multinationals, they want to join local businesses as workers, but we face many, many important problems. I represent agriculture, I know it best, and I've taken the words of agricultural entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized, and the big ones don't really care. There has been a situation in Hungary today that the labour force in the countryside has run out, who would go, is untrained and untrained. So it is not necessary to imagine the Hungarian countryside today to talk with a moustache and hoop, and they have in their hands the expertise, whether they feed chickens with cobbled skirts, and everything is fine, but the burden of the Hungarian countryside is largely carried by small and medium-sized enterprises, as I said. In agriculture, this is difficult physical work, it is highly labour-intensive, and it requires a great deal of expertise. This expertise in Hungary, in fact, can be said, whether from the time of the conquest, from wherever we look, it was in agriculture until the change of regime. At the change of regime, there was a break that this work had become worthless. The sectors that needed a lot of living work, a great deal of expertise, attention, a slow loss of all kinds of support, the assets were lost in privatisation, but people who held to the countryside tooth and nail, producing peppers, melons, whatever plants where living human work is needed, I'm not talking about thousands of hectares of large farmers, they've been using a living workforce for the last few years, thanks to the expertise we inherited from our grandmothers, our mothers, they could find labor, and there were people who wanted to work. These people are out. They have filled the retirement age, who have lived, who have not lived, they have left us in the meantime, and a young generation with a paper on everything has entered, because in the last 12 years a rural training business has started. Everything can be certified from grass-pocketing to all kinds of farmers, and a gold-gold farmer can be a gold-gold farmer, and a business has begun to produce these papers. There are decent vocational training facilities, and there are those who want to keep paper in their hands. What happens at this hour? Someone comes out proudly at the institution's door, he has a paper saying that he was a gardener, he worked for me as an occasional worker, he came along, and it turned out that he had nothing to do with the particular work phase, he couldn't horde, he couldn't hoist, he couldn't do anything, and he told me that the point was to sit down in the benches, take his exams in theory, and he was released into the world without any practical knowledge. In the past, it worked by taking the expertise, learning, driving, and trying to work well from the older person working with it, but this is not the case. The thing is, they're trying to get a job on this paper, and they're facing failure, because for a given rural entrepreneur, they're gonna have to produce spice peppers, anything, they're gonna need a workforce that can work right away. So these entrepreneurs asked me to bring the word to Parliament that there should be real agricultural labour training in rural areas, and they ask everyone, especially the two thirds not sitting here, to do so now, so that there should be such a thing as rural auxiliary labour training, agricultural labour training, so that we can recreate it from the foundations, because what the Deputy Minister said during the day, that they will give all the support to agriculture, which we believe and not, we would like to see it happen, but if it happens, we can put in any amount of money, we can give any number of halls, cold stores, machines, anything, if there is no support for people who work and manage it professionally, then we will not be able to produce. So the point is that we want to give real agricultural training to the Hungarian countryside, the rural workers who want to stay there. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and DK.]]
u2022-06-27-228	Thank you, Congressman. Brenner Koloman, representative of Jobbik, has applied for a post-meeting address with the title: "Our current affairs." Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-06-27-229	Thank you so much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The adoption of the current budget means a value choice. That is why I proposed, on behalf of Jobbik, the right centre national party of our country, that there should be an immediate 50 percent increase in the next year's budget, since the 21st edition of the 21st edition of the European Parliament's annual report on the implementation of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In the century, in the century of knowledge and information, we think this is a priority nation strategy sector, and we also believe that the well-being, freedom and individual growth of Hungarian citizens can only be ensured in this very accelerated century if everyone has the knowledge they need. [[18.50]] In particular, I would like to highlight the salary of teaching colleagues in disengaging regions, or of teachers teaching children with special educational needs or possibly autism, who, in our view, carry out their blessed activities for the national political goal to be given priority in relation to average teachers' and teachers' salaries. What is even more important is that we immediately triple the number of teachers' assistants, social psychologists, and other helpers, so that we may reach the OECD average, I would like to point out with respect, since it is not the teacher's job to feed students arriving at school sometimes without breakfast in the morning. Secondly, I would like to express that culture is a national basis. That is why I suggested, in the name of Jobbik, that next year's budget should substantially increase the support of cultural institutions, because we believe that a vibrant cultural life for a civil conservative party like Jobbik is an extremely important goal, and what we deny, there should be a little more money for this than almost 80 billion forints that Fidesz's one-party overpowering propaganda will receive in the next year's budget. In addition, these cultural institutions are often maintained by local authorities, local authorities looted by Fidesz. These are also important because the power of the community organizer of culture must not be lost, because this is the only way to achieve the objective of the 21st century. In this highly atomic society, in the first century of the century, let it be a national union again. Dear House, I have talked about the investment in Lake Fertő giga in the walls of this House many times since 2018 on a continuous basis. For four years, citizens of the Sopron region and tourists have been unable to go down to Lake Fertő. At the same time, the Fidesz people broke down the pile houses, the reed-covered pile houses that fit the landscape. In an impertinent, illegal and cynical way, they want the owners of the piles to pay for the demolition costs. I would also like to note here that I went over from the Austrian side with a sailboat, because it has not been possible to penetrate the Hungarian side for years, and that is when we were able to photograph and film them tearing down the pile houses in a shameful way. That's why I'm suggesting that... and now they've stopped the entire investment. Who is responsible for environmental damage? Who is responsible for the fact that the citizens of the Sopron region have been unable to go to Lake Fertő for four years? What will be achieved from this investment? Minister Gergely Gulyás told me everything's fine. No, it's not okay. A detailed impact assessment must be drawn up immediately for an investment that is suitable for the countryside and which really improves tourism. Dear House, Sopron's full, and he deserves more. Every year since 2018, we feel what it's like to have people who have to leave their homeland to leave their home country because of better income conditions. This, however, led to the fact that traffic and parking in Sopron had become impossible. That is why I proposed the complete renovation of Magyar utca and Balfi utca in next year's budget. This, of course, will not solve the fact that, in our opinion, Jobbik believes that everyone can thrive in their homeland, and it is the catch-up of wages that will then solve this issue for our country in the longer term. That is why we are working for the well-being and freedom of Hungarian citizens. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Laszlo Varju applauds.]]
u2022-06-27-230	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I thank you for your work, especially those who are still here, sitting in the benches. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Thank you very much for the work of those who have helped to lead the meeting today and today. Meeting day's closed.
