u2022-02-21-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 1st day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of the meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Ádám Steinmetz. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear House, Once again, I have to fulfil my many sad obligations by announcing that four of our former fellow Members have passed away in the past. Gábor Kiss, former politician of the MSZP, obtained his mandate in the 8th constituency of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County at the parliamentary elections in 1994, and he was the party's parliamentary representative for two cycles. Under his mandate, he was a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Culture and the Press and the Committee on Human Rights. He was a member and vice-president of the Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County General Assembly between 1994 and 1999 and between 2002 and 2006. Besides his political career, he was a teacher, a college teacher, a candidate of philosophy. In 2001, he was awarded the title of Honorary Citizen of Vásárosnámény, and in 2008 he received the Golden Cross of Merit of the Republic of Hungary. He died in the 84th year of his life. Dorottya Büky obtained his mandate from the national list of SZDSZ in the first free parliamentary elections after the change of regime, and was a member of the Parliament for two cycles. During his term of office, he assisted the Committee on Culture and Press Affairs and the Committee on the Coordination of Budget Support for Social Organisations. As a communication expert, he was previously the campaign manager of SZDSZ and the communications director of several public companies between 2002 and 2010. He passed away in the 61st year of his life. András Lakatos obtained his mandate in the 5th constituency of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County as a candidate of the MSZP in the 1994 parliamentary elections, and until 2002 he was the parliamentary representative of the party. During his term of office, he assisted the Committee on Agriculture. As an agricultural engineer, he worked on the development of local and then national agriculture, from the change of regime until 1995 he was president of the Chamber of Agriculture in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county. He passed away when he was 78. Máté Fenyvesi entered Parliament in the 1998 parliamentary elections from the 10th constituency of Bács-Kiskun county in the colour of the Independent Kisgazda Party, and again as an individual representative in the 2002 parliamentary elections, this time as a candidate for Fidesz. Under his mandate, he assisted the work of the Health and Social Committee and the Youth and Sport Committee. Prior to his public career, he has achieved many successes both as a player of the FTC and as a member of the national team. In 1965 he won the Shopping Towns Cup with his club. After his withdrawal, he received the Officer's Cross of the Order of Merit of the Republic of Hungary, the middle cross of the Order of Merit of Hungary, and the title of Citizen of Budapest. He died in 88 years of his life. I would ask you to pay tribute to the memory of our fellow Members with a silent standing. [[The people in this room stand up and pay tribute to the dead.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that 198 Members of Parliament, representatives of nationalities and 12 ethnic advocates have issued their own declarations of property, as well as their family members' declarations. Declarations of property are public in the case of Members and Speakers and can be viewed on the National Assembly's website. I declare that all Members of Parliament and advocates can exercise their rights accordingly. Dear House, Szabó Timea, the leader of the Dialogue Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech. I give you the floor.
u2022-02-21-1	Ladies and gentlemen, We regret that Viktor Orbán did not pay his respects here in Parliament today, even though it would have been appropriate to formally say goodbye to the Prime Minister's seat. But it's okay, we'll tell you what's going on in Hungary instead. The fact is that in reality there are two Hungarys. First, there is Viktor Orbán and Hungary of Fidesz. A Hungary where the Prime Minister's father, Orbán Győző, has a billion-dollar fief estate built in Hatvanpuszta with luxury pools, chapel, tennis court. A Hungary where his daughter, Orbán Rachel, receives ten billion state subsidies for her fashion companies instead of entrepreneurs. A Hungary where Antal Rogán goes to a wedding with a helicopter because he's in a hurry. A Hungary where Péter Szijjártó is on a luxury yacht on the Adriatic. A Hungary where Judit Varga receives a HUF 10 million amount of CSOK support for his holiday home illegally. A Hungary where Pál Völner is a criminal and accepts bribes to put invalids on the streets and is still sitting in Parliament. A Hungary where József Szájer of Fidesz escapes from a drug-related, gay, mass sex party by slipping through the gutters because he believes that he is not subject to the laws. A Hungary where Lőrinc Mészáros earns 11 million HUF per minute. This is Viktor Orbán and Fidesz Hungary, but there is another Hungary. A Hungary where the single mother of a cancer patient, a single mother of her son, was evicted by Pál Völner's friends because she could not pay the loan. A Hungary where even chicken butt-backs are a dream even for disabled people lured down by Viktor Orbán. A Hungary where young people do not cheat with the CSOK, but in return they will never get normal housing. A Hungary where graduates live on potato noodles because you keep deceiving them by raising wages. A Hungary where policemen, firefighters, nurses, home nurses, civil servants are terrified that the children's feet will not grow, because they cannot buy new shoes for them. A Hungary where today a 40-year-old young person dies of cancer because he gets a five-month CT scan. A Hungary where the NAV now withdraws to Gábor Iványi's homeless rescue association just because Viktor Orbán wants revenge for criticizing his 12 years of hatred and fear. In the former Hungary, Fideszes and Fideszes live in Hungary, and in the latter, nearly ten million Hungarians live in Hungary. The only problem is that Viktor Orbán is responsible for both the former and the latter Hungary. Viktor Orbán saddles his parishioners back and forth while he dares to enter a nursery in a bulletproof vest. Wrestling with dead pigs, he's playing soldiery while he's a coward to stand up to Peter Márki-Zay. Don't tell me who's in charge here, because we didn't invite Putin to debate instead of Viktor Orbán. Orbán is nothing more than a cowardly thief, my fellow Members, and the fact is that people have had enough of this claptomania disguised as government, they are fed up with hunger, unheated homes, foreign currency loans, five-year surgical waiting lists. That is why there will be a change of government on 3 April, together with the opposition, under the leadership of Péter Márki-Zay, and we will create a country based on a decent living. A country where we raise the wages of policemen, firefighters, nurses, civil servants until they can make a decent living. A country where we increase the minimum pension by two and a half times, and no one can get less than 75,000 forints a month for their old age. Where the average pension will be 200,000 forints. Where VAT on food is reduced to 5% in order to permanently reduce food prices. [[13.20]] Where waiting lists disappear, and where everyone has a chance to work, where we will achieve a 70% reduction in demand with panel and insulation programs. Where we help everyone who needs it: from the entrepreneur to the loser to the foreign exchange credo. We are going to build a country, my fellow Members, where women, gays and childless people are not pushed by the government as a shield of hatred by Viktor Orbán and Fidesz, but by raising a protective umbrella over the whole society, where everyone finds peace and security. Where the word of the year is not Andi, but prosperity. If the Prime Minister were here now, I'd say goodbye to hasta la vista.
u2022-02-21-2	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary.
u2022-02-21-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. You, Congresswoman, are doing the strange stunt that you claim at the same time that the days of the governing parties and the Prime Minister are politically numbered and that there is a dictatorship in Hungary. It also shows that the dictatorship that is presented daily is not meant by you either. His speech is proof that personalism, provocative style and left-wing hatred policy remain without substance. I'm sorry you missed telling me how long it's been since we've been here in Parliament, what changes have been made. For example, we already know that it has increased by more than 7 percent [[Szabó Timea: inflation!]] In Hungary, the economy, while the EU's growth is 5 per cent, is therefore above the EU average, and this has allowed many new measures. For example, we returned the 13th month pension you took. Families have received their income tax paid back in 2021, people under 25 are exempt from tax, which has not been paid before in recent decades: they do not have to pay income tax. And if you look at the wages, you didn't talk about it, then, despite the epidemic, wages in Hungary have increased by 10 percent, and if you look at the total amount of government, it is more than 70 percent. This contrasts with the negative performance of left-wing governance, when wages increased by between 15% and a few percent. And if you look at what you did when you had the chance, what you did, you didn't give, as you promise now, but you took me away. And if you're talking about the food tax, so that I can only pick one: when you had to vote on it here in Parliament on numerous occasions since 2014, you weren't supported, but you didn't vote on it. So even if they promise now, we know very well what their true attitude is. The picture has been clear since the last session, and we know a lot about who you recommend to Hungary. We know what Péter Márki-Zay thinks about the country, and we also know what he thinks about Hungarians. Actually, we know more than we should. [[Complaining from Jobbik's ranks, Pegasus, huh?!]] Because the truth is that we have seen a lot of fancy things in Hungarian public life from the left, but no one has ever raised the insult of Hungarians to such a speed. For example, Péter Márki-Zay called rural people ignorant and rude. And it's not extenuating that he also said that not all country jerks, because he's not. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] It's not a rescue. Lensily, he told me that their activists reported going to a rural settlement where almost everyone was drunk. [[Szabó Timea: Very weak...]] How disdainful is that? You may be from the Buda Lancas, but most of the Hungarians live in rural towns and settlements. I ask you and all left-wing politicians not to insult them. Captain, you have an opinion on women. He thinks if someone can't decipher a crossword puzzle, there's a good chance it means it's a woman. Where are you who keep referring to the protection of women? Where are the left-wing politicians from morning to night? Do you think it's okay to talk about women like that in person? [[Szabó Timea: No, lying is not okay!]] Those who disagree with Péter Márki-Zay, say, on the issue of security, have also received their assignments. They were simply said to be mushrooms fed with manure; in vain they tried to deny it. [[Szabó Timea: No, you're lying again!]] And it wasn't even full because your candidate tells unpalatable jokes about black people, insults people with disabilities, sponsors an anti-Semitic candidate, and if that wasn't enough, he lists public figures based on sexual orientation and origin. Where are the bright-eyed rights organizations who report the country at a hobby level for all correspondence? You, honourable Member, are in favour of this candidate and will leave without a word that he insults millions of Hungarians, not once, not twice, but almost every blessed day. What do we think about that now? In view of the fact that we're in Parliament, I wouldn't fully explain that right now. We maintain our calmness, and we recommend it to everyone else; all the more so, because there will be a strong answer: not insults, not obscenities, but votes. So far, you have insulted millions of Hungarians, but in a few weeks they will come, the Hungarians will respond, and you can be sure that the answer will be loud. [[Szabó Timea: We are one of the Hungarians!]] Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-02-21-4	Now it's time for Congressman Antal Csárdi to join the LMP faction. I give you the floor.
u2022-02-21-5	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The biggest corruption scandal in recent years is the Völner case or the Völner-Schadl case, as you like. The public indictment shows with hurtful precision the mafia-like operation you've established in the last 12 years in our little country. It is extremely unpleasant, and we never thought that the Hungarian public could get here, that a telephone could be used to arrange for Antal Rogán's chief of staff, that he did not even have to go to the exam, because he said something to him. But here, however, there are more serious findings of this case, since it has recorded virtually 83 million forints in the indictment, it can be proven by Pál Völner, and interestingly, this little curiosity is still at large. Everyone else in this case is under arrest in advance, except for the person who, according to the indictment, took 83 million forints as executive officer. It's crazy how this story doesn't even end here, because we can clearly see in the last few weeks how insane real estate panama is also connected to this case. György Schadl and the related actors have acquired a great deal of real estate in the VII. in the district of District V; you know, in the district V, which is still considered to be the rulership of Antal Rogán. And I'm not surprised at that, because this real estate thing has been going on for a very long time. We were not surprised that when opposition representatives in District V initiated an investigation committee, it was, of course, swept off the table by the city administration. But he couldn't shake the formation of the Committee of Inquiry in the Capital, and I would like to reassure my fellow members of the Government that the Committee of Inquiry has started its work and will explore from the first moment to the last, the real estate problem that is already showing itself. I think that I am right to expect that, as a result of the work of this committee of inquiry, there will still be a preferential purchase of real estate that has not yet been discussed in the press or in the public address. Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, The fact is that the most painful thing about this corruption story is that all the forints spent in this case are financed by the last assets of the foreign exchange credit victims. [[13.30]] So the 83 million forints Pál Völner received according to the indictment, and the property worth hundreds of millions of forints that György Schadl and his circle of friends obtained, all came from the executions, typically in the vast majority of those who lost their last assets. I think that's the hardest thing to explain. An interesting detail of the investigative material, as György Schadl refers to a politician above Pál Völner as my master. Then, in the same investigative material, I am forced to quote the names of Toni, Barbie, and Adam. I think that at this point, I can trust everyone with their own consciences and fantasies, who they are, who they are at the top of this Panama. Thank you very much.
u2022-02-21-6	Mr Répássy Róbert is the secretary of state.
u2022-02-21-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Since you are Ferenc Gyurcsány's ally [[Defiance on the opposition side.]] Therefore, he is undoubtedly an expert on corruption. What I can tell you is that after you, for example, launch a suspect in Szombathely, and your entire fine party alliance supports a suspect, perhaps you should be a little more modest. Honourable Member, Ferenc Gyurcsány's immunity has also been suspended once before, this Parliament, Ferenc Gyurcsány, has been prosecuted, so the prosecution of someone has not even prevented you from taking part in the work of the Parliament. As far as the specific issue is concerned, honourable Member, you must know that when the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office initiated the suspension of the immunity of Mr Pál Völner, he resigned from his office as Secretary of State at that moment. You've never taken responsibility for anything. The left never takes responsibility. It's typical of you that when the City Hall case comes out or you find out about other mugs, you're never responsible. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The parliamentary representative concerned's immunity has been suspended by the Parliament. Everyone's equal before the law. Equality before the law means that there is criminal proceedings in this case, and criminal proceedings will determine not only the responsibility but also the facts in criminal proceedings. So what you're quoting here is now being reported as news. And if there's any criminal element, any criminal act, the prosecution will press charges, and the court will judge the case. However, I would like to say, honourable Member, that the City Hall case is a very good example in cases where left-wing politicians are personally involved, and the press has also published the names of left-wing politicians in the same way, you have never said anything, you have never said anything, they have never said that their responsibility should also be examined. You know very well there are cases like this. I would like to ask that, if you want to take action against corruption, you take responsibility on the left. I ask that those left-wing Members who are involved also assume responsibility. Honourable Congressman, What I would like to say about this whole case is that you are talking about the violation of foreign exchange credentials, that this government has done the most for foreign exchange credentials. Our government has passed several laws to protect foreign exchange legislaters. This case is connected to the Gyurcsány-Bajnai era, and we inherited it. The Gyurcsány-Bajnai era caused foreign exchange lending and the trapping of these people. Our government has changed the laws in several steps, adopted foreign exchange-credit rescue packages, and as a result we have been able to help a lot of people. Please, if you can't help me, at least don't hurt me. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-02-21-8	Now it's time for DK's representative, Anett Bősz. I give you the floor.
u2022-02-21-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary of State! Following Homer, we begin in medias res, that is to say, in the middle of things: in Hungary there was a livelihood crisis. The most popular indicator of well-being, individual consumption per capita in the European Union in 2020, was lower in only two Member States, Croatia and Bulgaria than in us. Ten years ago, we left six countries behind, in 2020 the minimum living cost was 101,000 forints a month, and the average income of the lower two income decylis was below that. Since then, these data have only gotten worse. Thus, more than two million people live in absolute poverty among our fellow countrymen, the unemployed who are more disadvantaged than all other European countries, the public workers who work for a minimum wage and a significant group of pensioners. The abolition of the Swiss indexation has been the biggest cut of our elderly countrymen. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, this was suspended by the Bajnai Government in 2009 to ensure that the rise in pensions would at least reach inflation, but you had the first thing to do to stop it, and therefore the average pension was dramatically cut off from net average earnings. It still reached two thirds in 2009, but not half in 2020. By maintaining the Swiss indexation, the average pension in 2020 would have been around 175 thousand forints instead of the current 133 thousand forints. This therefore deprives pensioners of half a million forints a year. This is what the current Hungarian government is trying to correct by one quarter of the 13th month pension and by a one-off allowance of 80,000 HUF, which you call the pension premium. This one month's extra pension is, by the way, 8 percent of the annual pension, which has already been eaten up by 7.9 percent inflation and has been taken back in advance. Perhaps the most serious problem for young people is the acquisition of the first apartment. The current system helps the middle class, but those who really need to be able to participate in nesting programs without starting real estate, well, they pay the price that false middle-classization also has its effect on the rental market, because those who cannot start a family in their own real estate must pay dramatic rents in rental apartments. The situation of people living on wages and salaries until last year has been determined that the net minimum wage in the EU was lower only in Bulgaria and, in addition, in net average earnings, only Romania was exceeded. This year's minimum wage increase hardly helped, and in 2022 the net minimum wage was lower only in these two Member States than in our country. This year's net minimum wage will not even reach half of the average wage in 2020, let alone this year, as the EU recommendation would have said. Entrepreneurs never know when you will have another idea of how to get them to pay the price of the crisis, how to fill holes in the central budget resulting from failed economic policy and fiscal policy. The victims of this are primarily small entrepreneurs. The average salary of the staff of the budgetary bodies has remained below the national average in the last 12 years, otherwise always. This would be compensated by the stability required for the workers here, which, unfortunately, has been taken away from these people in the course of the crisis. Among them, the average salary of human health care workers in 2020 was barely higher than the national average. The effect of the increase last year has been eliminated by the humiliating conditions of the medical service. The average salary of social workers was less than half of the national average. True, in 2014, it was a third of it. This clearly shows how important you consider our countrymen in need of the periphery of society and those who really need help in a health or social institution. And the situation of teachers is perhaps best described by the commentary of that teacher in his reaction to the strike that you have banned from regulation, when he said that I would only go to Lidl for two or three times as much. Is it any wonder that more schools are unable to perform educational tasks with teachers? Thus, the crisis of livelihoods is all hurt by older people and young people, poor people and social groups that remain under the middle class. As one of the candidates for Hungary in the Unit, I can only say that the change of government will correct this too. Thank you for listening. [[13.40]]
u2022-02-21-10	Mr. Balázs Orbán has the floor.
u2022-02-21-11	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You brought a very important subject here into the walls of this House. The government agrees that poverty eradication is a very important objective. In our view, work is the way out of poverty. Fortunately, more and more people live in Hungary instead of work: despite the crisis, the number of people employed reached 4.7 million, which in 2010 was only 3.6 million. What you have mentioned is also very important, so that people can benefit widely from economic growth in Hungary. You quoted statistics and surveys in this regard; let me put it mildly: you said quite questionable things from a methodological point of view. Let me offer you other statistics on this matter. The World Economic Forum has an index that examines the inclusiveness of economies. This is about how the bottom social groups share the results of economic growth. In this statistics, Hungary is the second of 74 countries, so it stands in the very first place. According to another World Bank report, this covers an earlier period between 2012 and 17 but an important figure, on an annual average, increased per capita income in the case of the 40 percent earning less than the median or the increase in the total population. This proves, therefore, that the lowest social groups benefit more from the good economic performance of the country. The minimum wage has tripled since 2010, from HUF 73 500 to HUF 200,000, and the minimum wage for skilled workers has increased to HUF 260 000, which means a two-and-a-half-fold increase. According to statistics, 100% of the minimum wage is an increase in purchasing value, which is also very important. Poverty indicators are also known: between 2010 and 20, millions of people have been reduced by one unexpected expenditure; 2.5 million have been reduced by those who cannot afford a week's holiday. According to Eurostat's cumulative data, the proportion of people exposed to poverty has decreased by 1 million to 250 thousand since 2010, and the proportion of people living in severe material deprivation has decreased from 23 per cent to 8 per cent over a decade. In the context of the current crisis period, we have also introduced the action of the four stops. In the framework of this, we have kept the reduction by 25 percent since 2010, which is also the lowest income; we are talking about the prices of electricity, natural gas and other public services, we have also announced a interest stop, we have also announced a gas stop, and we have also announced a price stop in the case of important basic foods. We've been helping the Feds. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Uh-oh!]] Eviction moratorium, we stopped mass currency lending, we introduced the exchange rate barrier, we made it possible to pay off, we created the National Asset Manager. Meanwhile, the children's home care fee finally reached our long-awaited goal of the minimum wage, i.e. the gross HUF 200,000. More than ever before, we spent HUF 87 billion on the social meals, more than a million people could participate in the free Erzsébet camps, full access to free textbooks, and, yes, in February 2022 we rebuilt the full monthly 13th month pension that your government, the left-wing government, took away from the Hungarian people. Compared to this, even before 2010, electricity prices doubled by three times the price of residential natural gas, which caused the biggest burden for the smallest earners and families. You have abolished family tax incentives, eliminated preferential interest rate loans and turned the entire country into a trap for foreign exchange lending. In eight years, as a left-wing government, the minimum wage was raised by only HUF 23 500. Between 2006 and 2010, the higher the income of a Hungarian citizen, the greater the increase in his income, while the income of those in the lower four categories of income fell out of the ten. I think it's a shame, it's an anti-poor policy, we don't want this to come back. We recommend going forward, not in the back. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-02-21-12	I now give the floor to the head of the MSZP faction, Bertalan Tóth.
u2022-02-21-13	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would have been pleased if Prime Minister Viktor Orbán had come to work today. I'd have liked that. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Where is Ferenc Gyurcsány and the whole DK?]] because it could have reported on the decision of the European Court of Justice to question how Hungary could obtain more than HUF 15 000 billion in funding. But I see that you were expecting to come in today, because I haven't seen so many pro-government Members sitting in front of the agenda in a long time. [[Rumble and clear from the pro-government benches.]] It seems very, very much that your boss is really afraid of the debate, and now he doesn't even come to Parliament. [[There's a grotesque and clearness in the opposition's benches. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Where is Ferenc Gyurcsány?]] We must talk about this judgment, since it has a serious impact on Hungary's future. I am talking about the judgment that Judit Varga said was born on a political basis. Obviously, that's a lie, and by the way, if we were living in a normal state of law, the Attorney General would have resigned immediately after such a judgment. But what do we expect from Judit Varga, who didn't resign when his deputy turned out to have accepted more than HUF 80 million of bribes in recent years? They say he should give up even if he knew, even if he didn't know. But Judit Varga didn't do that. In addition, today in the Justice Committee, you voted against the proposal for a resolution that anyone who has accepted more than HUF 80 million in bribes should not at least receive compensation from taxpayers, but you think it is due to him, so we voted against this proposal, and I would like to congratulate you on that. But let us talk about this judgment, because the judgment stated that in line with the EU treaties, there is a regulation on the basis of which an investigation may be initiated which, as a result, the European Commission may decide to withdraw the power to allocate money to the government in which the European Union's resources can be shown not to go where the European Union is going. So if the resources from the European Union, the European taxpayers' money, disappears hand in hand, as we see in Hungary, in this case the Commission will have the right to suspend this government's right. How does this relate to the rule of law? This regulation says that where local authorities do not act effectively against corruption or influence justice politically, they will not be entitled to do so. Unfortunately, both exist in Hungary, because corruption has been completely released and we see the steps where the work of justice is politically influenced, we see the appointment of the President of the Curia and its current operation. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the stake of this year's election is that this resource, this more than HUF 15 000 billion, can be used in Hungary or not, will be taken away by Hungarian businesses, the Hungarian people's money, and will result in economic development that will solve a number of problems, or will not be. So the stake is that this corrupt, repressive government, building a party state, remains in power. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Because then EU money will not come, and if EU money does not come, there will be no economic growth and Hungarian people will suffer serious damage. Ladies and gentlemen, There are two options. One is that Viktor Orbán suddenly improves, closes the money taps, liberates the media, the Constitutional Court, the Curia, the State Audit Office, the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, health, education, culture, I might say we don't see much of a chance. The other solution, however, is the change of government, because in this case we will eliminate state-organised corruption, join the European Public Prosecutor's Office, restore the system of brakes and counterweights, call down all EU funds, and from the proceeds we will fix the broken healthcare, raise the wages of teachers, free schools, raise the wages of law enforcement workers, nurses, social workers, not once but continuously. We make the minimum wage tax-free, double the family allowance, double the minimum pension, introduce the mixed indexation, build rentals, change Hungary. That is why there is a need for a change on 3 April, so vote on the Prime Minister's candidate and candidates for the Alliance for Hungary in Unity! Just up. Thank you very much. [[13.50]]
u2022-02-21-14	Once again, Mr. Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State.
u2022-02-21-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, Allow me to start by saying that the good Lord saves Hungary from the fact that once again the left is running over EU funds. I've had this before, in 2010. In terms of resource use, we were at the back, and only a fraction of the EU funds could be drawn, which would have caused the Hungarian people to lose hundreds of billions of forints in the order of HUF 500 billion. They ran a weak economy, the public deficit was skyrocketing, so there was no possibility of pre-financing. Numerous opportunities for development have been postponed and missed while EU funds have been spent on pointless projects. The symbol of the era we all know is the 4th metro investment, for which there were not enough five Mayors' cycles, and in fact we are talking about the biggest corruption case in Hungary's history. Afterwards, after 2010, we tried to correct this failed EU development policy and to stop the slippage in which the country was compared to the EU development average. We succeeded, but, of course, there is still work to be done. In 2010, the Hungarian economy reached slightly more than half of the EU's development, but in 2020 it reached 74 percent of the EU's average of 27 economic regions by reducing internal regional differences. We don't want to stop. We would like to further increase the overall level of development and reduce the differences. Thus, we wish to devote more than HUF 4000 billion to the development of the Hungarian countryside in the next cycle. We have also introduced development policy reforms. Proposals have been simplified, and our country has not allowed a single euro to be lost or spent on pointless improvements. In this regard, allow me to bring the views of a few external, objective actors here as well. According to Moody's international rating agency, GDP growth in Hungary was increased by 2.6 percentage points annually by EU funds. This was the best result among the countries in the region, so the most effective use of resources was here, as this was the best way to contribute to growth in the EU. If what you claim is true, then this would be different; it would be exactly as it was during your period of government, where the incorrect, irregular and senseless use of EU funds made it impossible to support the growth of the economy. This has also made an eye for the former German Chancellor Angela Merkel, who has so many references to you, who has admitted to me that Hungary is using EU funds well, making smart investments and pursuing a smart economic policy. I would like to draw your attention to this sentence:. Overall, Hungary uses these funds to improve the well-being of the people. And I believe that the flood of lies on the left has received the last and greatest leak in this regard. By the way, the question you have raised is certainly true, Mr. Group Leader, that exists. There is a debate between Brussels and Hungary primarily in relation to the resources of the Restoration Fund. Of course, all the judgments of the European Court of Justice will be respected by Hungary, as has been the case so far, and there is nothing wrong with that in itself. The problem is that Brussels abuses its power and seeks to take account of measures, policies that the vast majority of Hungarians disagree with and have nothing to do with the effective use of EU funds. In fact, you have betrayed yourself and your political side, because in your speech you said that if the media, education and who knows in what field Viktor Orbán will change his policy, then EU funds will come. Now, this is what is called blackmail in politics, and this is not blackmailing the Hungarian government, but blackmailing Hungary and the Hungarian people. In education policy, in the protection of families, in the protection of children, in the fight against illegal migration and in the fight for national sovereignty, this government is pursuing a policy that the Hungarian people, the vast majority of Hungarian voters, expect of it. Therefore, when you say that Hungary will have to change in these areas, for example, on the issue of family protection and child protection, I must reject this. One day, as left-wing politicians, it would be good not for Brussels, but for the Hungarian people. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-02-21-16	I now give the floor to Peter James.
u2022-02-21-17	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, let's get something straight from the beginning: vaccination cannot be made compulsory. Does that make sense to you on the other side? [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I'm happy for you. Then why have they made it mandatory in countless sectors? Colleagues! Well, we're running out of teachers, cops, nurses, firefighters. Those who have not been chased away by low wages are now being chased away by compulsory vaccinations? Fellow Members, if these people leave the field, this country is over! Not to mention that what you're doing right now is the introduction of paid health care. If an undisposed person wants to leave, I don't know if I can get a dental exam, should he buy a test for 20,000 forints first? You were rebelling against the visitation fee back in the day. How much was that? Three hundred forints? So the three hundred forints was a problem. And the 20,000 test is okay, after a man spends his whole life paying for social security, pretty much nothing? ! We supply half of Africa with free vaccine, but you buy Chinese for double? ! What is this vaccine business, fellow Members? Is it all about money here? Is vaccination just about money? Is that why you're gonna make it mandatory after April 3rd? Let's just say that if the united opposition defeats you on 3 April, there will be no compulsory vaccination in this country. Whoever wants to pick it up, who doesn't want it, doesn't. We want a free country! Do you understand? ! We want a free country. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]] where the government does not oblige citizens, but takes care of them. You take care of yourselves at best. If you need a few million, say 83, you'll be conspiring with the executive mafia, just like Völner did. If necessary, families will be thrown down the street just to get their houses. If they don't want to go to college for exams, they're gonna make a phone call like Rogán Toni's buddy. Meanwhile, Attorney General Judit Varga blinks like a fish in a bag like he wasn't there. And Prime Minister, before the end, you're gonna have a few billion bucks on your back, aren't you? That, no, a few months before the fall, Lőrinc Mészáros built another stadium in Zuglo for $22 billion. He changed the plumbing around Tatabánya for 23 billion because he knows everything. After April 3rd, you can clean the toilet in Szeged for free, along with you! [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]] Because what you're doing can't go without consequences. Last year alone, you brought together a government deficit of HUF 5000 billion. There's 5,000 billion forints missing from the joint register, only from last year! Where is this money, fellow Members? 'Cause believe me, I don't care if there's such a shortage if I can at least see that the Hungarian people live better! But we are still the second poorest nation in the European Union. So we know where this money is: you have it! The question is, who's gonna put it back in the joint, because someone's got to put it back in. If you win the election on April 3rd, you'll be recouping this money with the teachers, the police, the nurses, the workers, the pensioners. If you win the election, you will steal the same way you have done so far, and the Hungarians will have a austerity package as never before. You know that, and we know that. We're gonna split till the election, and then we're gonna have black soup. If we win the election, the single opposition wins the election, not the teacher, not the policeman, not the worker, not the nurse, not the pensioner will repay this money. [[There's a lot of noise, interference from the opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] It's you. They're gonna pay you, like the military officer, with interest, everything! [[Intercom from Jobbik's benches: That's right!]] We will make the Prime Minister's declaration of fortune true: he will not have a penny. On the other hand, he will be indebted to the nation he has sent down in twelve years just to live out his own power madness, instead of Graz, in the Castle of Buda. Are we going to vote on this in kindergarten sex conversion surgery? Well, you guys are crazy, I swear, one by one! Fools! [[Deterioration in the benches of Jobbik.]] Do you think this is the country's biggest problem? Hungary goes forward, not backwards, you say. Well, I'm sorry, there's no one behind us. 74 percent of Hungarians live below the EU poverty line. More than two million of our compatriots are crippled under the minimum living. Nearly a million pensioners have to come out of less than 100,000 forints a month. Ten years ago, you abolished the Swiss indexation. Since then, every pensioner has been deprived of 400,000 forints a year. This is HUF 4 million for ten years. And then you think that if you give me back a 13th month, everything will be taken care of? Well, with the stolen money, they'll give you back the change! Meanwhile, the workers are being taxed to death, young people are being put into credit traps, the gas station attendants are being destroyed right now. And you're saying that Hungary isn't going to the back? ! There's nothing further than Putin's Russia, but you're the only ones who want to go there, and we don't. [[14.00]] We will remain in Europe, we will stay in Europe, and on 3 April we will defeat you, so that every day after that we will come closer to the 30-year promise you made to my father: European wages, European pensions, European prosperity. That is why we have joined forces, and that is why we have established the largest opposition unit in Hungary's history, because we can only succeed together, but we will succeed together. I want the thieves to pay me. Prosperity for all Hungarians! Destroy the Orbán system!
u2022-02-21-18	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State, has the floor. Here you go.
u2022-02-21-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. He gave his speech the title "Free country!" It is, isn't it? Let me ask you one thing, Congressman, if you really want a free country, what are you doing on the election list for eye-shooters? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] It starts with those who interpreted the rule of law with rubber bullets, cordons and water cannons. And what your personal relationship with freedoms is: the stranglehold that was applied to your forum. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]] And the fact that your Prime Minister's candidate is thinking about what candelaber could be used for. That's it. [[Intruder from the pro-government line: Shame!]] If you have a problem with our country's politics, it's a party, you shouldn't ask the government, you should knock on their door, that's your problem. Now, either you've been misinformed, or you're more likely to be deliberately lying. There is no compulsory vaccination in Hungary, the vaccination is voluntary in Hungary. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. Dr. Brenner Koloman: You can only order the employer!]] But if you've brought up the health aspects, I can't tell you that you've done nothing to protect yourself from the epidemic. Fake news has been wanted, see today's example, and vaccines have been campaigned against by petition or false news. As far as future health plans are concerned, I would like to inform you, but you probably know very well that if someone wants to pay for health care in this country, [[Interview from Jobbik: Viktor Orbán!]] Then he's your Prime Minister's candidate. How do you put it? He says he's more relaxed when it comes to health business than if it's not business. In fact, he said that only a drastic privateization can help Hungarian health care. That's your policy. [[Intruder from the pro-government line: Shame!]] They also openly talk about the need to pool hospitals and even justify it in some areas, saying that childbirth does not require a doctor. It's really stopping here. Why don't you ask the women and the mothers first? [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: What are you talking about? A lot of women don't have babies because of that.]] When he claims or asks where the money is and tells us that the government has done nothing to restart the economy, then what he claims is simply not true. The Hungarian economy grew by 7 percent last year, which is 2 percentage points ahead of EU growth. Families get their income tax back, they get their 13th month pension again, and people under the age of 25 get tax exemptions. We also protect families from inflation, which you have raised several times during recent meetings, in various ways: with a petrol stop, with public energy prices, with interest stops and a price stop for basic foods. I'm just saying quietly that you have never voted in favour of VAT cuts. You have either denied these measures or, worse, you have not supported them. So, if Jobbikon and Peter James were behind it, there wouldn't be a tax refund, a tax reduction, but there wouldn't be a interest stop. With parliamentary provocations, threats and loud speech, Hungarians cannot improve their livelihoods, but with timely government decisions. I must say that Jobbik has come a long way in recent years. They were a movement supported by Gergely Pongrátz, and they became a demoted division of the post-communists. We, who have watched this here, have often felt that we are watching such a lousy soap opera. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Were you worried?]] And all the time we knew they'd end up together. Of course, they denied it at the beginning, they explained that they asked for it, but in the end they only signed for Ferenc Gyurcsány. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. Dr. Brenner Koloman:]] Gábor Vona said he sold the soul of Jobbik. And the thing is, you, Peter James, didn't even try to get it back. When the great list of Gyurcsány is published in the next few days, the names of post-communist politicians and the names of better politicians will line up next to each other. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] So they joined in everything and resembled what they had once been created against. What would you think of yourself ten years ago? Guard vest down, red star up! [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks, let's make the list of agents public.]] I could say they're gonna fall under the bench of the two chairs, but the thing is, it happened here a few weeks ago. [[Defiance from the pro-government ranks.]] So they've done their duty, but they need to know that you won't be needed there from now on. And if it turns out at the end of the story that a national party has been placed at the feet of the left with Jobbik shrinking significantly in terms of his support, then someone will have to take responsibility for that, Mr. Group Leader, personally. It's gonna be a tough moment, and believe me, even the clown peck won't help at that moment. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks. Intercoms from opposition lines.]]
u2022-02-21-20	If you've been yelled at, gentlemen, we're moving on. I give the floor to Mr. István Simicskó, Head of the Group.
u2022-02-21-21	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We have arrived at the spring session of 2022. Since the change of regime, the electoral law and our multi-party democracy have worked by holding parliamentary elections every four years. On 3 April this year, the President of the Republic issued the parliamentary elections in Hungary. Therefore, I think it is important that we look back calmly at the period, look at where we started, what heritage we had to start from, and where we have come in the last 4 or even the last 12 years. Obviously, as a result, if we carry out this assessment, let us try to come to conclusions as to what is expected if the elections take place one way or another. Over the past 12 years, the current Hungarian government and all of us have faced many challenges. The Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments left behind a legacy that required an incredible effort from all of us, as it was an indebted country, hundreds of thousands of foreign exchange-credit families getting into trouble, problems, 12% unemployment, low child-bearing willingness, cutting down family subsidies, austerity, bad economic policy, and taking away 13th month's pension in 2010. On the move, as the Fidesz-KDNP government started its work from 2010, I would refer here to the red sludge disaster or to the record flood on the Danube, or even to the management of the migration crisis, or to the pandemic, which was part of the rescue on the one hand, on the other hand, the restoration, the guarantee of security, and in any case the conditions for the well-being of the Hungarian people were guaranteed by the Hungarian government with an appropriate economic policy and the security policy with which, among other things, we were able to stop the migration wave at the southern borders of Hungary. Meanwhile, Hungary, we can say that the Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör, has said that he has a 7.1 percent economic growth. On the other hand, the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments can show a negative 7 percent decrease. We've made the reduction in the overhead. It's a huge achievement. Extending employment, creating a million new jobs, building up and expanding the family support system, which can help a lot of families in Hungary today, building border fences, raising wages in various social groups, armed, law enforcement agencies, health care in doctors, nurses and now in education. Childbearing has also increased in recent years thanks to the Government's Family Support Act, and even the Child Protection Act guarantees the rights of parents to continue. Ladies and gentlemen, What is expected if in 2003 Could the left possibly win the election? It is obviously a bad idea to think about this, but let us look at those statements, if we do not see the programme very much, but also statements from the candidate for Prime Minister of the Left, which are certainly remarkable and thought-provoking, let me say, also shocking. I tell you honestly that, as a Member of the Parliament of Újbuda, when I first heard from Imre László, mayor of Újbuda on the left last year, that he praised Hitler at a public board meeting and then almost named a street about Mengela, I thought this was a very bad joke. But what I see now is that the candidate for Prime Minister of the Left has moved himself to the point where he has repeatedly stated that he would first conspire with the devil to defeat the Fidesz-KDNP and Viktor Orbán as a Christian person, a man of Christian national commitment, and then insult social groups to the blood, make devising remarks about women's abilities, obviously hurting rurals enough and even listing fidesz Jewish ministers and even gays. So it's incredible what we've heard and heard in the past. [[14.10]] But the most shocking thing this time was that I literally quote the Fascists and the Communists in his alliance, right, separately, but he represents it. Well, I thought you couldn't say that, and it's a shame to have a candidate like that on the left, and it's worth thinking about. Of course, in such a case, you can pick up the classics, St. Kamill, who said that all you have to do is think good, say good and do good. Péter Márki-Zay, the candidate for Prime Minister of the Left, has a serious problem with the first two. Dangerous thoughts, dangerous statements, only dangerous acts are expected if the left wins. God forbid he won't win. Hungary goes forward, not back. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-02-21-22	Mr. Róbert Zsigó, Secretary of State, has the floor. Here you go.
u2022-02-21-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, The title of your statement before the agenda . The stakes of the parliamentary elections, and if I would like to reply briefly, I could say that the stakes of the election are the future of Hungarian families. The government's goal is to make it easier to have children, raise children and start a family in Hungary, and we all remember that this was not always the case. Prior to the change in government in 2010, the opportunities for young people with children were particularly limited. Having a child in Hungary was more of a financial burden than an appreciation. In 2010, the Hungarian people were at a low level in their desire to start a family and have children. This is no wonder, because the socialist governments abolished, among other things, the former home creation system, by which Hungarian families were pushed into foreign exchange loans, the family tax relief was abolished, the duration of the child was shortened by one year, the cost of the overhead was skyrocketed, and the measures were used to reduce families and Hungarian people. We all remember that in 2010 there was a family-friendly turnaround in Hungary. We have created a stable, complex, targeted and flexible support system, and we are also constantly expanding it, which protects and serves the basic unit of our community, the family. The government's aim is to give birth to all children in Hungary, to live safely and in their own homes, to help young people thrive at home, and to allow the elderly to live a peaceful, calm old age. Since 2010, we have increased the amount of support for families by more than three and a half times. This year, it represents 6.2 percent of GDP, which is about HUF 3500 billion, which is outstanding at international level. Families raising children, as has been said several times today, have been returned or their personal income tax paid back in 2021. The maximum amount of ged has already increased by two and a half times since 2010. The number of newlyweds, couples requiring baby shower support has already exceeded 203 000. We support family home creation. The CSOK has so far been used by 206 thousand families, with a total amount of HUF 656 billion. More than 100,000 families have applied for home renovation support since 1 January 2021. Compared to 2010, crèches operate in three times as many settlements as before. In 2022, the government spends more than ever 87 billion forints on social catering, which is a nearly threefold increase compared to 2010, and from the 2020/2021 school year, free textbook supply has also become full, and from January this year, no personal income tax has to be paid to working young people under the age of 25. As compared to the original plans, in February 2022, we returned the 13th month's pension to the elderly, which was taken from them by the Gyurcsányek. We remember that in November 2021 we were able to pay the pension premium of 80 thousand forints to pensioners and those who received pension-like contributions, which, by the way, was enabled by the successful start-up of the economy. In addition to what has been said, we maintain the reduction in the rent, we have introduced the interest rate stop, we have introduced the gas stop and we have also introduced the food price stop. Dear Parliament, There is indeed a high stake in the upcoming elections. The time has come to protect our achievements in the past 12 years by working together with the people, because every day it turns out that the left-wing program is the same as it was before 2010, according to the left-wing designated prime minister, it is foolish to pay the 13th month's pension, he also believes that it was foolish to abolish the visit fee and the hospital's daily allowance, and we should consume less electricity and gas instead of reducing the costs. On the other hand, we believe that families should be given all the support they can to move forward, as I said at the beginning, so the stake is the future of Hungarian families, among other things. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-02-21-24	At the end of the speeches before the agenda, I give the floor to Mr Máté Kocsis, Head of the Group. Here you go.
u2022-02-21-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Imagine that here Ferenc Gyurcsány launched a series of events called Ferenc Ferenc Gyurcsány. [[There's a rare blur in the ranks of Fidesz.]] It's very symbolic that the 2022 campaign is again about Feri being here. It's kind of like the underpass, market game, . Here's the Feri! Where's the Feri? But if we look at this thing less cheerfully, it tells us a lot about you that you, communists and fascists, are trying to help it back into power in a great deal of agreement, because it doesn't matter which party they turn on, or which party they point to, under each one Feri is under each glass, Feri is under each glass, if you will. That's why we remember between 2002 and 2010 what it was like when Feri was here, what it was like when Feri was here. We should also remind you that when Feri was here, we know nothing else about this program, this program has already been tested by the Hungarians, and this program has already been judged, it meant that when Feri was here, that they had taken away the 13th month pension from 2.4 million pensioners, they took away the 13th month's wages from those working in the administration, teachers, they took away all the existing support for home creation, family support, they reduced the price of the gas, they raised the price of the gas, they raised the price of the electricity, they raised taxes, and when there was a crisis, they committed the original sin that they didn't give to people, but they took away from them. They took everything they could from them, took all the support they could get from them, and on top of that, the country was still in debt, and a thousand billion. [[Towards the opposition: Don't smile.]] the municipalities, the families were also indebted and the country was plundered. That's when the Feri is here. You are deceiving each other here that this great cooperation that you represent will be good for the Hungarians. You have done nothing but conspire with Ferenc Gyurcsány here, Feri! Where's the Feri? While real cooperation, dear Communists and fascists, is nothing more than the 4.7 million Hungarian workers, the 7.1 percent economic growth. It was this government that gave back the 13th month pension, not to mention the numerous sectoral wage increases, the arms money, and you couldn't even imagine. [[Interventions from opposition parties.]] Don't let the fascists and communists yell. It is that families raising children in Hungary will receive a year's personal income tax back. That's what communists and fascists don't do. This government is also bound by the fact that young people under the age of 25 do not have to pay personal income tax. I have to say to you that this programme here represents in a worthy way what you are doing right now. Even though they try to trick the Hungarians, even though they start puppets in different positions, the rule of politics is that whoever becomes the largest group will not be you, they will not be the socialists, but Ferenc Gyurcsány will be. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] [[14.20]] Whoever has the greatest party, who is the most talented in politics, is not you, but Ferenc Gyurcsány, who will tell the next government not to give up. [[Zoltán Balczó intervenes.]] Therefore, the Hungarians have a very simple situation on 3 April: they have to decide whether to go forward with the government that supports the current government's families led by Viktor Orbán, which protects the borders of Hungary, reduces taxes, reduces costs, and helps people's everyday lives with financial measures, or to go backwards with you, Ferenc Gyurcsány, with Feri!, who is here so much that he hasn't come in this time. [[Zoltán Balczó: Soros is coming!]] Fascist doesn't yell... [[Defiance in the benches of the governing parties to the president, Daniel Z. Carpathian to the president: Is that okay? Noise in the room.]] Now the Hungarians have to choose between [[György Szilágyi: Shame on you to say that to Zoltán Balczó! Shame on you.]] I don't know if they're going forward or back. We will go forward, and so will the majority of Hungarians. Have fun, gentlemen. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-02-21-26	Excuse me, my better fellow Members, not with me, but with Péter Márki-Zay! [[There's a lot of noise and applause in the benches of the governing parties. György Szilágyi: Will you say that to Zoltán Balczó, Mr President?]] And Mr. Szilágyi, don't yell. If they're gonna put up with it in mid-B, there, maybe. [[Deterioration in the benches of the ruling parties.]] Here you go, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2022-02-21-27	[[Dániel Z. Kárpát: Stinky Communists... You are a bunch of Bolsheviks...]] Mr President, Dear House, Thank you very much for the floor. It seems that our better fellow Members have difficulty in digesting the situation. You know, honourable right-wing Members, we have been sitting here with you in Parliament since 2010 and, indeed, we have not used the same adjectives as your own candidate for Prime Minister. We have called you a honourable Member and a honourable Member. But your candidate for Prime Minister said that from here on out, [[He's pointing his hand from right to left.]] the fascists on the opposition side who are from here on out [[He's pointing his hand from left to right.]] And those are the Communists. We didn't say that about you. Your own candidate for Prime Minister said that, Your Honour. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] Before that, the DKs have said such things about you, and you have said such things about the DKs, only since then you have fallen apart, holding hands, and campaigning in the last few weeks and even over the years, so you can blame yourself for how you've put yourself in this situation. But if you object to the use of the word, you should turn to your Prime Minister's candidate. What was it Ferenc Gyurcsány said about the campaign period a few campaigns ago, when he evaluated the campaign on the left in the autumn speech? Then he said, about his own words, about his own promises, about his own words in his own campaign, that we obviously lied for the last year and a half, it's quite clear what we're saying is not true. In English, the left still ran into the election and why would it change in this; who has managed to get the fox off the hen theft? The left didn't change either, and he ran it so that it was perfectly clear to him that he was campaigning with untruths. Besides, Ferenc Gyurcsány also said that what could be done in secret in the previous months, so that the last few weeks of the election campaign would not reveal papers that we were preparing for, we did. It wasn't any different then, and it's no different now. I would also like to quote Ferenc Gyurcsány: you cannot say any significant government measures that we can be proud of. It is no wonder, then, that the left was campaigning with lies, and it is doing so now, since it has no measure to be proud of. That is why you never like it when we compare your performance and your own performance here in Parliament or anywhere else, because you know, together with Ferenc Gyurcsány, that there is no significant government measure that the Hungarian left could be proud of. Ferenc Gyurcsány told this secretly, behind closed doors, but the current candidate for Prime Minister of the Left said that the autumn speech was an honest confrontation, and that it was necessary to have this very determined and unmistakably honest speech. [[Dr. László Cook intervenes.]] Well, so admitting that they lied to people and destroyed the country in private, secretly, is an honest confession to you. What's more amusing is the fact that the Left Prime Minister's candidate talks about Ferenc Gyurcsány's sincere belief that he fought corruption. Well, if we look at the M6, say, the löszdomba dig tunnels or the valley bridge between the non-existent mountains, or if we read OLAF's report about metro 4 that says that one third of the money was stolen or cheated, it's hard to believe. At the same time, the head of many on the left may be on the left, because what Ferenc Gyurcsány wanted to hide, the current Prime Minister-designate of the left keeps blabbing and insulting people. He says, for example, that he's calmer when it comes to health business than if it's not business. He is convinced that there is a need for drastic privateisation and a need for drastic privatisation in Hungarian health care. He says it's not a devil's idea of a daily allowance and a visitation fee. It says that outpatient care could be centralised; inpatient care in small towns and in the vicinity of villages does not require emergency or obstetric care, and obstetrics generally do not require a doctor. He says that free health is an illusion, and market health is not from the devil; anyone who does not like it should go to India and have their eyes treated there. He also says that paying healthcare works well in other countries, and that it would also work in Hungary. [[Peter Ungár intervenes.]] He said to reduce the costs, that the form of the reduction in the rent that Viktor Orbán had in mind, I would not like to maintain it. He said to cut the rent that it's nothing more than debauchery. It would not fight higher petrol prices with a petrol stop, it would put people in smaller cars; and it would generally say that world market prices cannot be stopped at borders. He said that people should feel the increase in energy prices, and I could tell you what insulting comments he made, sometimes feeding with manure, sometimes keeping it in the dark. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] He was talking about mushrooms, simple, ignorant people. On 3 April, the Hungarian people will be able to comment on this. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-02-21-28	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Ádám Steinmetz to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2022-02-21-29	Dear Parliament, Mihály Varga, Fidesz; Bence Tuzson, Fidesz; Gergely Kálló, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Róbert Dudás, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; János Stummer, Jobbik; Gergely Arató, DK; Andrea Varga-Damm, independent; Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik; János Bencsik, independent; Dóra Dúró, independent; Anett Bős, DK; László Varju, DK; László Hajdu, DK; Zoltán Varga, DK; Anita Kőrösi Potoné, Jobbik; István Apáti, independent; Peter Ágh, Fidesz. Tamás Mellar, Dialogue; Krisztina Hohn, LMP; Zoltán Varga, DK; Lajos Korózs, MSZP; Brenner Koloman, Jobbik; Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP; János Halász, Fidesz. Andrea Varga-Damm, independent; Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik; Tibor Bana, independent; Dóra Dúró, independent; Tibor Nunkovics, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Tamás Csányi, Jobbik; István Apáti, independent; János Stummer, Jobbik; László Varju, DK; Péter Ágh, Fidesz.
u2022-02-21-30	Dear Parliament, Pursuant to Article 11 (1) of the Fundamental Law of Hungary, the President of the Republic shall appoint the election of the President of the Parliament. As announced at last week's meeting of the House Committee, the election will be scheduled for 10 March 2022. The election of the President of the Republic shall be preceded by a nomination within the meaning of Article 11 (2) of the Fundamental Law. The validity of the nomination shall require a written recommendation from at least one fifth of the Members of Parliament. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that every MP can recommend a candidate. For those who propose more candidates, each recommendation is invalid. I'll initiate the nomination procedure. Recommendations can be submitted on Tuesday, 1 March at 4 p.m. The meeting of the House Committee on the review of the recommendations will be convened on 3 March at 10.30 a.m. Dear Parliament, President János Áder sent a transcript to the Parliament on the termination of the ministerial mandate. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to explain this. [[14.30]]
u2022-02-21-31	Mr. László Fat, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Articles 9 (four) (c) and 20 (three) (b) of the Fundamental Law and CXXV of 2018 on Government Administration. Law 197. On the basis of Article 4 of the Act, on the proposal of the Prime Minister, I concluded that Éva Veresné Katalin Novák, Minister without portfolio, will cease to be responsible for the families, with effect from 31 December 2021. Budapest, 29 December 2021 Sincerely, János Áder is President of the Republic.
u2022-02-21-32	Dear Parliament, I declare that there have been motions by Mr Erik Fülöp, independent, László Sebian-Petrovszki DK-s, Ákos Hadházy, independent and György Szilágyi, Members of Parliament for the waiver of immunity. I've issued these to the immunity committee for examination. I would like to inform you that the immunity committee has submitted its proposal for a decision in all cases, so that the suspension of immunity will be decided on this day, in the course of decisions following the interpellations. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that no consensus was reached at last week's meeting of the House Committee on the proposed working schedule of the National Assembly spring session in 2022, and therefore Parliamentary Act 13. Pursuant to paragraph 6 of Section 6 of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the working order. The proposed working schedule was available to my fellow Members on the website. Now we're going to have a mechanical vote, so I'm gonna need everyone to place their cards in their voting machines if they haven't already done that. If the House is ready to vote, I will ask the Parliament and adopt the proposed working schedule for the 2022 Spring Session. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the working schedule for the spring session by 121 votes in favour, 24 votes against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the government has submitted a legislative programme for the spring session, which interested parties have been able to learn on the IT network. The State Audit Office presented its recommendation to this effect, which is also available on the IT network. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I note that the visible majority of this House has adopted the agenda. Dear House, Due to the fact that the Christian Democratic People's Party and the Jobbik Movement for Hungary have become the same number of their members, the notaries decided on 8 June 2020 with a draw on the order of the speeches. HSZ 17/B. Under paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Article, the order of the speeches varies from one ordinary session to the first floor of the group entitled to speak, and the other group is moved one way back. In view of the fact that the number of political groups is still in place, the Jobbik Group is ahead of the KDNP group in the course of interpellation, oral and immediate questions during the 2022 Spring Session. Ladies and gentlemen, Now, at 2:34 p.m., we move on to interpellation negotiations. [[It's a short break. Several Members are leaving the Chamber.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to leave the Chamber quickly if you have anything to do outside the Chamber and, above all, quietly. I give the floor to Dániel Z. Kárpat, who, as a representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister. On behalf of Prime Minister Prime Minister, the Minister of State of the Ministry of Justice with responsibility and competence will respond to the interpellation. Congressman's got the floor.
u2022-02-21-33	Mr President, Dear House, In relation to the pro-government signs and ratings given in the hour before the agenda, we were subjected to secondary shame. It is quite amazing what the Bolshevik-style group leader of the Fidesz-KDNP allowed himself to do in a way that defies sweepers and attics. I could talk for a very long time about the Hungarian Prime Minister demanding the world quota, about who was shouting on his knees, and I could talk about who left the Trianon Memorial or who was taking a very leading role in the Liberal Internationale. [[György Szilágyi: That's right!]] I could talk about record weak forints and fast inflation, I could talk about the incredibly wide mass of people receiving a pension of less than HUF 100,000, or I could talk about who is fighting migration in words, while hundreds of thousands of migrant workers are being recruited to Hungary. It is a shame and a shame that Fidesz and its prominents have become a windcock in the history of politics, and it is an even greater shame that these people dare to teach anyone in Hungary, because there is now a much less funny subject. One of the most repulsive crimes in the history of Hungarian politics is suspected, as a secretary of state and the connected executives have supposedly dragged tens of millions of families at risk of eviction, and have systematically slaughtered these families for years. The brutality of the government in this direction has already been demonstrated in the months of the emergency. You have been able to do the disgusting thing, in an unprecedented way at European level, that, while European governments have tried to make up for lost wages, in Hungary, 33 percent and 50 percent of executive bans have been applied to small pensioners and minimum wage earners, even though you have had the proposal to relieve our countrymen of the burden at least temporarily. Our questions are clear: did the government calculate how much money did Völner and his executive team damage the Hungarian people? Question one. Second, can you tell us how many families have been put in direct danger? The third and perhaps most important, Mr Secretary of State, what do you have in mind about the compensation of those affected? Fourthly, from what source do you intend to compensate these people? Furthermore, the last question is quite poetic: is there a person in the country who really believes that we can talk about a corrupt-looking secretary of state's network and sole responsibility in a person? A government with banks, assisted in more than 18,000 evictions, is obliged to give a meaningful answer, and I look forward to this meaningful response. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-02-21-34	Répássy Róbert, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2022-02-21-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, The first minute of his interpellation was not the text described, he added it afterwards, so he deviated from the interpellation. I can't answer that. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Are you really not saying anything about it? Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. Dr. Brenner Koloman: That's for the president to decide, Mr. Secretary of State.]] No, I'm gonna decide that because there's an interpellation written down, and it's different from interpellation. [[Noise, clarity, interruptions from the opposition benches.]] So I can't answer that part of what you've added to your interpellation. [[Gergely Arató: There are no text written for you, so you can't answer!]] What I can answer most simply is that the Ministry of Justice has never had jurisdiction before or now, at present, for specific enforcement actions. The court shall exercise legal oversight over specific enforcement actions. You probably know that, by the way. So the Ministry of Justice has no say, no say in whom enforcement is ordered against, and how that implementation is carried out. Only the court has a say in this. As regards helping the authentic, I would like to explain to you the steps that the government has taken over the last few years in terms of the situation of foreign exchange lenders. In 2010, the Parliament decided to postpone the implementation of the decree on the evacuation of the apartment. In 2011, we adopted the so-called end-payment law, under which foreign exchange lenders could repay their debt at a reduced rate. Nearly 170,000 debtors made use of the possibility of repayment. Also in 2011, the National Assembly adopted the so-called exchange-rate barrier law, in which the number of entrants in the exchange-rate barrier exceeded 170,000. This measure exempted foreign exchange lenders from paying interest of more than HUF 50 billion. [[14.40]] In 2014, the next measure was to classify the exchange rate gap and the unilateral amendment of the contract as unfair conditions, thus putting the debtors in a positive position in 1.8 million litigation proceedings. The settlement law was adopted in 2014, the Forinting Act was also adopted in 2014; in 2015 the private bankruptcy law was adopted by the Parliament, and they are currently receiving assistance in private bankruptcy proceedings. [[Tordai Bence: How many?]] The authentic ones. [[Tordai Bence: How many? Dániel Z. Carpathian: How many are in it?]] The forinting... [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: How many are in it? Tordai Bence: How many?]] I'll find him. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] In private bankruptcy, a total of 6219 people were involved, 2352 procedures were initiated. And I would like to draw your attention to the forinting that, at the moment, HUF 341 could be repaid by those who participated in the forinting of the euro at HUF 256. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian spread his arms.]] Honourable Member, the government has therefore done everything in its power to help the situation of foreign exchange creditors, so the statement you have made is obviously a bluff, a bluff. Of course, debtors still have all the help available, such as the eviction moratorium, which has been extended widely throughout the Parliament. Now, in view of the emergency situation, we have introduced a maximum interest rate, which will help again, otherwise not only foreign exchange lenders, but everyone with a residential loan will help. So the government took these steps and helped people in debt traps. Please, honourable Member, acknowledge this government's activities. Thank you very much. [[Defiance in the ranks of Jobbik and Dialogue. Intruder from Jobbik's ranks, Clown! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-02-21-36	In return, the congressman has the floor.
u2022-02-21-37	Mr President, Dear House, It is a shame and a shame that a secretary of state who worked here at the time advertises to his government that these people were looted at the market rate. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]] 256 forints. Mr. Secretary, how many forints did these people take their loans? 155? 160? [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] You made a deal with the banks. [[Intercoms.]] [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]] 256 forints. Mr. Secretary, how many forints did these people take their loans? 155? 160? (Interjections from the ranks of the governing parties. ) You made a deal with the banks (intercoms.) (Interjection from Jobbik: That's right!) , on paper they agreed not to settle the situation of the victims, forinted at the market rate. Don't you explain to me that after that, you ruined the exchange rate of the forint even more. It's true! [[Bence of Turdai: Shame!]] I do not dispute that from you, this dubious glory. But 18,000 evictions, Mr. Secretary. You have made a deal with the executives, and you have allowed families to be thrown on the street on a quota in Hungary, while the Justice Commission Sub-Committee on Foreign Exchange Loans, led by their own people, put it on the table in 2012, which we also demanded, a plan for HUFling at the rate of admission. You've been neggling this for ten years. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] They've robbed these people. Shame on you! After April 3rd, here too. [[The president's gonna turn off the congressman's mic.]] We'll clean up the ruins for you.
u2022-02-21-38	If I understood correctly, the congressman wanted to say that he would not accept the answer. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place between the decisions of today's sitting. Zita Gurmai, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
u2022-02-21-39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Secretary, The year was a strong start in the Justice Department's house. More and more information has come to light about the corruption scandal in the highest government circles. Pál Völner, Deputy Minister of the Ministry, regularly and occasionally accepted millions of forints from the former President of the Executive Faculty, in exchange for which he influenced the development of executive appointments, obtained diplomatic passports from the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who should be recorded for the sake of the facts! Gave it to the president of the faculty who had been arrested in advance since then. The scandal continues to swell, since György Schadl had arranged for Antal Rogán's chief of staff to pass his exams at the University of Pécs law school. It's becoming more visible, and the Fidesz privileged are free to do anything. Madam Secretary, let's go back to your former deputy, because it's an example of corruption that a secretary of state is taking bribes in front of the Justice Department building, according to the news. But in spite of all the obvious actions that have taken place, you didn't know anything about it. The minister who is also responsible for the authorisation of secret surveillance, who was in daily contact with his deputy, doesn't know anything about it. If anyone had known that, you would have known that. In fact, they claim that no one in the entire government knew anything, not even about the search, but let's face it, it can be quite spectacular when the police are doing a coordinated search of three ministries at once. It seems like he's got some kind of stealth corruption in the ministries, because no one knows anything. And stealth corruption is very dangerous, suggesting that ministers are not masters of their own organization. They have no idea who or what they're doing, even when it comes to their own direct deputy. Dear Madam Secretary, This is a cause for serious concern, and it is therefore time for the Parliament to see clearly in this matter. Did you or did you not know about your Deputy Minister's corruption operations? If you didn't know what was going on in front of your own eyes in the next room, how can you take responsibility for an entire ministry? Based on the experiences of the referrals, the message of the street is quite clear: a country has had enough of the world of Fidesz privileged. Let's not forget, they're going on April 3, we're all coming to Hungary. Thank you for listening.
u2022-02-21-40	Don't disturb the Secretary of State, you're welcome to answer. Here you go.
u2022-02-21-41	Thank you very much. Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Madam Member, you are an old ally of Ferenc Gyurcsány [[Depletion in the lines of LMP and Dialogue.]] I think we remember each other from the National Assembly, and I was wondering if when your prime minister mentioned hundreds of tricks. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre interrupts.]] I wonder how you led this country, how you led the country in which a Prime Minister confessed to lying to you before the faction for many years. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You just said a word that hit my ear, you said there was stealth corruption. I would add that it was open corruption in your country, not stealthy, open corruption. [[Dr. Tamás Mellar intervenes.]] So your era, the Gyurcsány-Bajna era [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] was one of the most corrupt periods in Hungary. I think you know that, because in 2010 the electorate gave an opinion on this. It is no wonder, then, that he makes allegations that are false, on the one hand, and on the other, based on various newspaper articles and newspaper news. In this whole case you've mentioned, there's a criminal case going on, the prosecution's investigating, and the prosecution's gonna decide who to prosecute. [[Bence of Turdai: Are you under arrest?]] And, of course, after the indictment, the court will determine the responsibility. So what you claim is either true or not; that you are right and that there is some criminally-appreciated act in this proceeding will be revealed. Everyone is equal before the law [[Bence of Turdai laughs.]] The position of the Minister of Justice is that the law applies to everyone, so whether it be the Secretary of State or the Socialist politician, he must answer the law in the same way. I therefore ask you to wait for prosecution with at least the claims made by the authorities in the criminal case. The same is the case with the Parliament, the Parliament is not in a position to give its opinion on these matters. However, I would like to remind you that the secretary of state has resigned immediately. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] This consistency has not yet been seen in the Gyurcsány-Bajna era, since you are now, for example, supporting a candidate for a parliamentary representative against whom there is criminal prosecution, supporting a suspect I do not know how this fits with what he has said. They obviously feel that you can either support a suspect or feel that you can accept campaign support from people who are subject to various legal proceedings. When you say that there is stealth corruption, I can say again that it is rather open corruption in your party alliance that has come to your head; I ask you to take some time to do so. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-02-21-42	Congresswoman's got the floor for a minute. Here you go.
u2022-02-21-43	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Well, obviously, he just didn't answer what I asked him. The office that you are now occupying was not so long ago an eloquent place for government corruption, so there is a very good reason to talk about corruption. [[14.50]] Well, let's go to the D.A.'s office. Well, I don't see that much. Can't György Simonka sit in the room with us today or Happy Stephen or Flórian Farkas? So much for the independent prosecutor's office. Now, second, if I take it from your words correctly, then the Minister of Justice did not know anything, the member of the government to whom the secret observations belonged, who was in contact with Pál Völner yesterday. It's not a very serious statement, no matter how you look at it, so stealthy corruption is a very dangerous thing. Mr. Secretary. Unfortunately, your government is doing everything it can to keep this form of corruption going. Obviously, I cannot accept that answer. And for the record, when Csaba Czeglédy was experiencing a problem, [[The president's ringing the bell.]] You'll have to do it right away. [[The president's gonna turn the mike off.]] In handcuffs...
u2022-02-21-44	Madam Congresswoman, please note on another occasion that your time is up. The congresswoman did not accept the answer. Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice. I give you the floor.
u2022-02-21-45	Dear Secretary of State, My first question is, though it is not written in the interpellation where the Minister is. Did you not feel it was your job to come to Parliament, when all opposition representatives would like to ask him personally about his role in the Völner case, and what role does he play in the dismantling of the Hungarian rule of law? It's convenient to send in the Secretary of State, I know, but there are situations where, even if not legal, it would be a moral duty for a minister to appear in Parliament. Because Hungary is not a rule of law; I know that you do not think so, but it does not change the facts. And the fact that Hungary is not a rule of law, not only in principle, is not only a political issue, but it is a very important question of pockets and meats, because today, when the unbearable price increases are pressing the Hungarian people, when they have to think about what they are buying in the store, when pensioners are counting that they will have enough money at the end of the month, it does not matter that the EU funds that are due to us will reach Hungary. The abolition of the rule of law damages the Hungarian people twice. First of all, they steal the money they deserve, and this corruption gives them the opportunity not to get the funds they receive for useful purposes, education, health care, social purposes, but for the pockets of the Fidesz elite. However, there is also a danger that the funds due to Hungary will be withdrawn in the rule of law procedure, because they do not see that there is sufficient use of EU funds in Hungary. And who should convince the European Union, Brussels, that there is a rule of law in Hungary? Well, the Attorney General, the Attorney General in whose time his own Secretary of State, according to the otherwise extremely loyal prosecutor's office, is taking the bribes in front of the Ministry. You should defend the rule of law where, by the way, Fidesz criminals are free to run; where there is no procedure when it is absolutely clear, like in the Elios case, who, and what crime, has been committed, I could also say that it is completely dark in this particular case; and where, at the same time, they are sending the NAV to Gábor Iványi just because his activities clearly show how hypocritical you are when you talk about Christianity and how hypocritical they are when you leave the poor people. In this they are exactly the same as the Communists, and they also persecuted Gábor Iványi and his church for the same reason. I must therefore say, Minister, that your activities and the activities of the Ministry of Justice are a disgrace to Hungary. I would like to ask you, as Secretary of State, that the Minister feels personally responsible that Hungary is not a rule of law. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] What was the role of surveillance... [[The president's gonna turn the mike off.]]
u2022-02-21-46	Unfortunately, it's time for Congressman to go. If you hadn't spent your time talking about things you don't belong here, you'd have had time to explain your question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2022-02-21-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I was just looking at your biography. [[Bence of Turdai: And Gyurcsány!]] and for six years there was Ferenc Gyurcsány [[Defiance and applause in opposition ranks.]] and Mr Gordon Bajnai State Secretary [[Gergely Harvesto: I'm proud of it!]] So, as Secretary of State of the Gyurcsány, Bajnai governments, you are undoubtedly an expert in corruption. Honourable Congressman, I can tell you, as I told Gurmai Zita, that you are talking about a procedure that lies on the desk of the investigating authority and the investigating authority is doing its job in it. In this case, the Hungarian Public Prosecutor's Office is the investigating authority, and the investigating authority will determine the facts on which an indictment can be considered and then the court will determine the responsibility. However, as a Member, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there have been cases where other Members of Parliament have been suspended from their immunity, and there have been cases where responsibility has been established, when it has not been established. So please be careful with these allegations. As regards the position of the Minister of Justice or the Ministry of Justice, the Minister of Justice has clearly stated this on a number of occasions. The Minister's position is that the law applies to everyone, everyone is equal before the law. Even if you prosecute your State Secretary, the Ministry of Justice can do one thing: cooperate with the investigating authority and assist the investigation within the framework of criminal proceedings. After that, there are no cases in the Ministry of Justice related to the former State Secretary, since these enforcement cases were transferred to another authority, the Parliament decided to do so by means of a legislative amendment. Honourable Congressman, Returning to what you said, I would really like to ask you that, remembering the events of 2006, when you were State Secretary, please judge whether it was a rule of law that was applied to protesters on the streets: people on the ground were kicked by policemen, opposition protesters on the ground. You think that was a rule of law? Would you be the most appropriate advocate of the rule of law here in Parliament? So, please, have so much self-criticism so that at least those who played a role in the activities of the then government in 2006 do not speak, and at least defend the integrity of the good guys, if any. I don't know how this matter is settled within the Alliance, obviously there is a way to mediate, but I feel that the events of 2006 have been a serious violation of the rule of law. The fact that the now loud human rights organisations did not object to this and did not bring the matter to Brussels at the time is a serious disgrace to these organisations. This is a grave disgrace to these organizations! It is not simply that human rights organisations have claimed that human rights have been violated, but that there have been subsequent criminal proceedings, and that the courts have condemned, for example, officials, policemen who have committed abuse and who have used violence. So I must say that there is a paper on the fact that the rule of law was damaged at the time, so I ask you to use this argument more modestly against Hungary. Anyway, it's a political decision, nothing but revenge for the Child Protection Act, and it's all about the rule of law. That is the government's position, and that will be the decision of the people in the referendum. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-02-21-48	The congressman has the floor.
u2022-02-21-49	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, There are few more powerful symbols of your government's lying hypocrisy than the answers from the current State Secretarys of Justice. For four years, we've been listening to your predecessor lecture on the rule of law and corruption, and we've seen how it ended. I'm protecting the Secretary of State from doing the same. As far as the rule of law is concerned, Mr State Secretary, you know you're lying that this procedure and its development have been going on for over a decade in the European Union, when you haven't even dreamed of a lying hate campaign that you're currently conducting in the name of a referendum. So I must say, my dear Secretary of State, that the fact that you are stealing EU money and that you have abolished the rule of law costs more than a million forints to all Hungarian citizens. You refused to answer that, so I cannot accept your answer.
u2022-02-21-50	Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister's Chief of Staff. I give you the floor.
u2022-02-21-51	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, One of the biggest corruption scandals in recent years has revealed that the key actor in the Völner case, György Schadl, who is under arrest, has acquired several valuable downtown real estate properties, and that the Faculty of Executives of the Court, which he has led, has dealt in real estate transactions with Minister Rogán's chief of staff. [[15.00]] I'm sure you do, but it doesn't hurt to confirm that he's the one who had to spell his law school exam. (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.) The capital immediately took action in the case, and the commission of inquiry was initiated to find out the truth about how György Schadl could obtain valuable properties in the city of Belváros and Erzsébetváros at a low price, without any substantial tender. When the opposition initiated the same initiative in the V. district led by Fidesz, I supported this initiative, the Fidesz majority voted against the motion. It is not surprising, since it is not in their interest to see clearly what real estate dogs and corruption channels were operating in the downtown only during the period referred to as the corrupt Rogán era. It is in our interest, however, to find out. That's why I turned to the Fidesz mayor for information in the public interest and filed charges for misappropriation. However, the Völner case is not only outrageous and outrageous because of that. According to the investigative documents, the arresting György Schadl repeatedly refers to a politician above Völner, who is so typical of the system of national cooperation called my master. Although we do not know exactly who this farmer might have been, the investigative material has the names of Toni, Barbie and Adam, I quote. Mysteriously, he stays out of the investigative materials to see exactly who is covered by the names Toni, Barbie, and Adam. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches, among others: Csárdi! Dr. Bence Rétvári: It's you! You're the Toni! Dr. Toni!]] Therefore, I think that everyone should be interested in what the answer is. And by the way, to my fellow Members, my wife's name is Mariann, Antal Rogán's wife's name is Barbara. Do you understand? ! [[Moore in the pro-government benches.]] Please, the thing is, everyone knows exactly who these names are, or at least they're highly likely to cover. But, Mr. Secretary, did you have an internal investigation into the case at your cabinet office to find out the details of the chief of staff's exams, of the President of the Faculty of Executives of the Court's real estate? And do you know that if the assumptions are unfounded, then who is the government member to whom György Schadl referred as my master? Thank you very much for your reply.
u2022-02-21-52	Thank you. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Csaba Dömötör responds to the interpellation. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2022-02-21-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I would like to point out, first of all, that Hungary is a democratic rule of law, and therefore the laws apply to everyone, which must be respected by everyone. And the fact that the court bailiffs are being investigated is proof that the authorities are doing their job independently of politics, the prosecutor's office and the independent court have the power to decide on the consequences. With regard to your suggestions, please allow me to draw your attention to the statement issued by the Central Detective Attorney General at the beginning of February, which basically contradicts what you have said. It says here that, contrary to the speculations in the press and social media, the investigative document indicates that the two arresting suspects of the case called each other. So they didn't call each other that, but they called each other Master. There is no evidence suggesting a criminal offence that other than an already suspected official of the government would be involved in the case as a perpetrator. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to draw your attention to an important difference: until the former Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice has resigned as soon as there is suspicion of a crime against him, nothing on the left ever has consequences. The left-wing leaders in Kispest did not resign even after it was discovered that clear corruption techniques had been reported. To this day, they're in place, they're all politicizing. Then there's the City Hall case where they talk about a commission system and the fact that there are financial sharks circling the left-wing factions. As I understand it, and I understand that you are the representative of the constituency where City Hall is located. Why don't you have a single word in this case? Not a single one! [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] Otherwise, the City Hall building would be squandered in the same way as the TV headquarters, which is also located in this constituency, had already been made once, so that the Hungarian state paid the amount it received for the whole building as a rent in a few years. There's a suspicion that City Hall would do the same thing, by the way, in the same circles. I could also mention that instead of being permanently excluded from their ranks, they also support as individual candidates a tax criminal who has already been convicted and is currently being prosecuted. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: And why is there no judgment?]] And you're marking him. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Why is there no judgment?]] It also shows, honourable Member, that action on the right has consequences, and nothing on the left has any consequences. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-02-21-54	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman if he'll take the answer. You have the floor.
u2022-02-21-55	Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I totally understand that they're stammering and they don't know what to do with the situation. Répássy told Robert that the investigating authority was doing its job. Yeah, he's doing his job, and the result of that is the indictment that I quoted both before my agenda and during my interpellation. They say that everyone is subject to the law, and everyone is equal to the law. Then tell me, if so, how can György Schadl be arrested in advance, while Paul Völner is on parole. With all due respect, you can't give me answers, because corruption transcends your governance to such an extent that you practically can't answer them. In light of this, I think it is no surprise that I will not accept the answer. Thank you very much.
u2022-02-21-56	Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the answer. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our sitting today, between the decisions. Dear Parliament, Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance:, Why did the government release inflation? It's an address. Congressman Bence of Turdai has the floor.
u2022-02-21-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. All of us living in this country feel how much prices have run out of control, inflation is devastating, and in January the rate of price increases was close to 8 percent. A significantly higher price increase was only in the bad '90s. It is clear from this that the government of Viktor Orbán, Mihály Varga and György Matolcsy, with the help of two financial agents, has made the country a complete slope. It is becoming more and more difficult to make a living, for all those who live on a salary or pension every month, with increasing stress at the end of the month, they do not know that they are coming out of their budget at the end of the month. 8 percent of the official inflation rate is close, but the cost of daily living has increased even more: the price of food is 10.1, including food oil is 33.4, flour is 31 percent, margarine is 21.2, bread is 18 percent, poultry is 17.2 milk is 16.9, cheese is 15.8, pasta is 15.1 percent, pastry is 14.9, work food is 11.3, restaurant food is 11.2 and sugar is 11 percent higher. Fuel prices increased by 22.5 percent, household repair and maintenance products by 17.1 percent, tobacco products by 10 percent; durable consumer goods by 7.9, kitchen furniture by 15.7, room furniture by 13.9, television 8.8, used cars by 8.2 percent more than a year ago; and, for example, house repair and maintenance charges by 16.3, vehicle repair and maintenance fees increased by 10.7 percent. The cost of living has been blown out, and the government is practically doing nothing, the Fidesz government has abandoned the people. The price of some products has been frozen to make it possible for Viktor Orbán to have it, but there have been only two consequences: one of them is that fuel dealers, small businesses, Hungarian-owned SMEs, and more often they acquire cheap, vile imports, thus destroying Hungarian producers. Why not reduce the VAT on basic foods? Why hasn't the child, the family allowance, the old-age pension minimum been raised for 12 years? Why do they only give a humiliating wage increase to teachers, which is practically equal to zero? Why is pensions raised to a lower degree than inflation? How can the government do this? Will you finally take responsibility, are you willing to take a stand against inflation, or will the Fidesz government abandon people? I look forward to your reply.
u2022-02-21-58	Thank you. Dear Parliament, State Secretary András Tállai, Deputy Minister, responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Deputy Minister. [[15.10]]
u2022-02-21-59	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Obviously, you should know that the rise in inflation is not a Hungarian specialty. After the crisis, this is an economic law. This is what Europe is struggling with. There is inflation in all countries of Europe, there is price increases; not only in Europe, but also in the United States, there has been a 7.5% increase in prices. Honourable Congressman, In Hungary, inflation is not the highest in the European Union. There are countries, including the region, where inflation is higher. [[Bence of Turdai: Sign?]] For example, inflation is 8.5% in Belgium, 7.6 percent in the Netherlands, 8.5 percent in Slovakia, but measured figures show that it is 9.2 percent in Poland and 9.9 percent in the Czech Republic. So trying to believe that something was wrong with the Hungarian government is not true. On the contrary! You should know that crisis management is a serious government task. Your government, your political ally, who ran this country at the time, couldn't deal with it. He couldn't handle unemployment, went up to 12 percent in the 2008-2009 crisis, and there were over 600 thousand unemployed. Now there are no more unemployed, and now there are fewer unemployed than there were before the crisis. However, the decline in economic growth was twice the size of the crisis at the time. By the way, one year after the crisis, economic growth in Hungary is already 7.1-7.2 percent. Do you know how much it was at the time of the crisis? It was minus, not an increase in the economy, but a decline. And the treatment of inflation was also quite different at the time, for which the Hungarian people paid a very high price. The inflation was high, it was about 5 percent, and the government's response was that he took the 13th month's salary and took the 13th month's pension. It has not given people to overcome inflation with income growth, to have more money than the increase in inflation, as the current government does, but has taken it away. Therefore, it must have taken years, and this was already resolved by the Fidesz government, so that the country would return economically to the path of increasing income, increasing economy and lower inflation, thereby increasing the level of real income. By the way, to talk about a trend: income was already 3 percent higher than inflation in 2013-14, the difference was 4.4 percent in 2015, 7 percent in 2016 and 2 figures in 2017. Revenues were 8.3 percent higher in 2018 and 7.7 percent higher in 2019. The coronal virus didn't break this trend either. In 2020, when there was a serious health problem in the country, economically, it was 6.2 percent. S was also 3.5 per cent in 2021, based on January and November data, when it was a low point. Honourable Congressman, It is not true that the Hungarian government has not taken any action against inflation, nor have I had time to say the concrete anti-inflationary measures. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-02-21-60	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman to accept the answer. You have the floor.
u2022-02-21-61	There are only two problems with Mr. Secretary's explanation. One is that inflation has run faster and earlier in Hungary and peaks higher than in other countries when looking at the EU average; do not try to cover with a monthly average for each country. But it is a much more serious problem that Hungarians have nothing to pay for rising prices. If we look at the free-spendable income, Hungary is fighting Romania for the second-to-last place across the European Union, and Bulgaria alone is the only one standing ahead. If we look at the minimum wage in the region, the second worst place in the net minimum wage is Poland 110 euros higher than Hungary every month. They're just so low, especially in the public service, because you didn't raise them, only before the election, you start using wage increases. Our downfall is decades old. And if there's nothing to spend on, there's a problem with fast prices. So you could have listed the government's actions against inflation if there had been. The result of your lousy economic policy is that we are here in the country. I don't accept the answer.
u2022-02-21-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman did not accept the Deputy Minister's reply. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place between the decisions of today's sitting. Dear Parliament, Mihály Balla, a representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-02-21-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Over the past few days, irrefutable evidence and footage of the Soros network's institutional operation of double standards against Hungary has been published. The foundations: Hungary's Government, with the support of the majority of its citizens, implements a policy that rejects the imperial aspirations in Brussels, does not allow LGBTQ activists near our children, and says no to the acceptance of illegal migrants. To counter this, the fight in the field of the rule of law continues to work. His main fighters and servers are NGOs sent by George Soros. You have testified about your assets these days. Andrej Nosko, former director of the Soros Foundation, recognizes the existence of double standards in the aforementioned recordings, i.e. if the Hungarian Prime Minister were a socialist, the press dominated by left-wing journalists and the European Union would have a different attitude. If the government had unconditional acceptance of the ideas of Brussels bureaucracy, everything would be fine. In the time of the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments that brought our country to the brink of bankruptcy, they felt that everything was going well. The most surreal point of unveiling is when activists attacking our country find Hungary a particularly good place to talk among themselves. Moreover, the project manager of TASZ and the director of Open Society Foundations, the Soros Foundation in Budapest, also talks about the fact that NGOs can operate in our country completely safely. Dear Secretary of State, Over the past 12 years, the fight against double standards has become a permanent task of government members, as well as of politicians and intellectuals with conservative values. The mechanism of double standards was also launched when the media law, the Fundamental Law and the fundamental laws were adopted. Now it's time for the upcoming April elections. With the rule of law, the European Union has produced a political, power and ideological blackmail instrument. With regard to institutionalised double standards, the members of the Soros network have now revealed themselves inexcusably. It's out of the bag. How long can they continue this morally questionable campaign against us? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-02-21-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Répássy Róbert, State Secretary, responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2022-02-21-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, On the one hand, I would like to point out that the Government considers that a political decision has been taken in the so-called rule of law case. This is a political pressure exercise, the sole purpose of which is to divert Hungary from the application of the Child Protection Act, the virtues of the Child Protection Act. In addition to what you have listed as evidence of double standards, I would like to share some data, some information with the Honourable Parliament, which proves the existence of double standards in the European Union's practice in Hungary. We should, of course, focus on Brussels bureaucrats, who, in cooperation with NGOs or NGOs, turn these opinions against Hungary using their opinions. Just one example: in the so-called rule of law report, the sources of NGOs are referred to three to four times more in the case of Hungary than in other Member States. I could say that the main source of the rule of law report is the opinion of NGOs, not facts, but the opinion of certain organisations. This is comparable to the reports on the rule of law in the countries of North Europe and the Benelux countries. [[15.20]] Again, I would like to give you examples probably of all the examples I cannot give you in my answer: there are some findings, such as judicial salaries or judicial independence. It is obvious here that while in other countries examples of judicial salaries or independence do not strike the Commission, the bureaucrats in Brussels turn them against Hungary. For example, in Finland, the government may suspend or even acquit the Attorney General. The Hungarian practice, in which the Attorney General and the Public Prosecutor's Office are independent, is not common in Europe at all, in many cases the Minister of Justice may order the prosecutor's office. Thus, under such rules, Brussels bureaucrats leave without a word. This is also very noticeable in the case of migration. We know the problem that the Commission does not finance, does not support the Hungarian physical border lock, but does so in other countries. Otherwise, we think it is right to support, provide financial support, talk about Spain, Greece or now the Baltic States, but not in Hungary, Hungary's efforts are not supported by the Commission. Not to mention the withholding of so-called financial aid: the Commission is withholding aid for the coronal virus pandemic. In the case of Hungary and Poland, these subsidies are withheld for specific political reasons and ideological reasons. In other cases, there is a possibility of withholding this aid, but they are only reservations relating to technical payments. There could be plenty of these double standards. His question was how long we could prevent this or by what means we could prevent it. The referendum on 3 April is such an opportunity, because on 3 April, voters can decide how we want to protect our children, not Brussels bureaucrats. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-02-21-66	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask the congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2022-02-21-67	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Of course, I accept your answer, also knowing that we could have opened up much more details on this subject, since we saw that the European Court of Justice made a political decision when it condemned Hungary. It is also included in this decision that it has made a decision quickly, a political decision in a case which should have taken a much longer period of time in the case of the rule of law. Moreover, this is one of the most serious decisions that this court has made in recent years, decades. I think, too, that our decisions on illegal migration, due to the Child Protection Act, also seem to influence this decision. Judgment seems to be part of the process that [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] on the part of the European institutions, we can see that they are pushing for a federal Europe. We see the future of Europe in the strong nation states. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-02-21-68	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, László Szászfalvi, representative of KDNP, submitted an interpellation to the finance minister: It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2022-02-21-69	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, At the beginning of 2020 the spread of the corona virus has put many countries around the world in a very difficult situation. On the one hand, health care during the pandemic and protection against the virus had to be organised, on the other hand, the economic shock and relapse caused by the situation had to be addressed. The Hungarian government responded by example to the situation, organised the protection against the epidemic, redistributed resources, and provided all material and material conditions for this. Dear Secretary of State, The Fidesz-KDNP government, as opposed to previous left-wing governments, has achieved significant results over the past twelve years, based on support for families, tax reduction policy, investment and employment. Today Hungary has a strong, well-developed economy, and despite the crisis, it has a balanced fiscal policy. The crisis has not been able to shake our development either, as, continuing the policy of tax reduction, from 1 January 2022, employers' taxes on work could continue to decrease, so businesses can spend more resources, more money on wage increases or further improvements. Dear Secretary of State, It was not so long ago that the left led Hungary into a financial collapse. During the Gyurcsány government, unemployment was extremely high, 12 percent in Hungary, a month's pension was taken from the elderly, the home creation programme was abolished, families were driven into foreign currency loans [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Put it on a list.]] They forced the municipalities into bankruptcy. On behalf of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, I hope that this will never happen again in Hungary. Dear Secretary of State, In 2021 there was a record high, 7 percent economic growth in Hungary and, of course, we want as many of the results of this increase as possible. This is why it was decided by the government that children's workers should receive their personal income tax paid in 2021 and that young people under the age of 25 will receive their first tax-free salary. On the basis of the above, I would like to ask the Secretary of State how tax cuts can help the lives of Hungarian people and Hungarian families. I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-02-21-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary András Tállai, Deputy Minister, responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Deputy Minister. I would also ask my fellow Members to use the lounge, which is available. You have the floor, please.
u2022-02-21-71	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, From the very first moment, from 2010, the Fidesz-KDNP government continued its policy of tax reduction, and this is still the case to this day. This has very serious results, since one of the least personal income tax paid by the working Hungarian population is now one of the lowest in Europe. Companies pay Europe's lowest corporate tax with a company tax of 9%. As you have said, the rate of the social contribution tax has been significantly reduced since 2016, from 27 percent to 13 percent now. At the same time, the interesting thing about this tax reduction policy is that tax revenues have doubled since 2010: the public budget is now HUF 16 000 billion from public costs. This was a taboo until Fidesz started, instead of focusing on economic growth and job creation and job creation, it was incredible how tax reductions could achieve higher tax revenues. I think that is no longer a question, and the economic policy of the Fidesz-KDNP government has proved this to the full. As regards competitiveness, Hungary today has the 13th most competitive tax system based on the OECD's international tax competitiveness index. This means that the tax wedge has decreased by 12 percent in the last 12 years, from 53.1 percent to 41.2 percent. This is the biggest reduction in the European Union. At the same time, the VAT rate, which indicates how much VAT does not flow into the state budget, was above 20% in Hungary in 2010 at the time of the change of government. [[15.30]] Thanks to the economic whitening measure, including the introduction of the EKR, the online cash register, which has been marvelled by the results of Europe, the online account system, the online VAT system and the online money system, it is now 8 per cent of this tax. So it is not only about the government reducing taxes and creating a better opportunity for families, it also creates better financial conditions for employers on more favourable tax conditions for investment, development, but also increases tax revenues with its own instruments, the whitening of the economy. I think that this tax policy, the tax reduction and the policy of whitening the economy have proved its effectiveness, and Hungary is now ranked 13th in the world ranking, with a very good ranking in the world competition as well. There is nothing else we can do after 3 April, and we will continue with this tax reduction policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-02-21-72	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2022-02-21-73	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply, of course I accept that. I think that this measure, the government's measure of tax reimbursement, is a historic event, since this has not been done in Hungarian economic history. The Fidesz-KDNP government has created a family-friendly Hungary, providing outstanding support for Hungarian families, families with children and children. Dear Secretary of State, The statement by Péter Márki-Zay, the candidate for Prime Minister of the Left, that the Left has achieved the government measure in which Hungarian families receive tax refunds is quite simply ridiculous. I would like to point out that in my constituency, nearly 8,000 parents received their taxes back for some HUF 3 billion. That's why we're still working. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] to keep Hungary a family-friendly country. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-02-21-74	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Deputy Minister's reply. Dear Parliament, Independent Congressman Andrea Varga-Damm has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:. Who takes responsibility? It's an address. By responding to the interpellation, Prime Minister Miklós Kásler, Minister of Human Resources, who is competent and competent according to the subject. Minister Bence Rétvári, Minister of State, granted the right to reply. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2022-02-21-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I'd appreciate it if you'd listen. On 28 January 2021, I asked Minister Kasler a written question in order to answer me who could receive the vaccine against the coronal virus. In your reply, Mr Secretary of State, I would like you to listen to me, and you replied that vaccination against the coronal virus concerns citizens who have not been infected in the last three months. It also stated that the Summary of Product Characteristics adopted during the authorisation procedure for each vaccine included the indication for each vaccine and the contraindications. The decision on individual vaccination should be taken by the doctor, taking into account professional considerations. In reality, however, the person who wants to be put in charge fills in a questionnaire according to the protocol introduced by the government about his or her own health condition, which, as a layman, does not replace the health assessment to be carried out by the doctor. Based on the vaccination system known in the last year, it can be concluded that the individuals to be vaccinated had not been tested prior to vaccination, that they had been infected in the last three months, and that the requirements for indication and contraindications had not been applied by doctors, i.e. that there was no examination of the vaccinees according to these criteria. Prior to vaccination, there was no consultation between the doctor and the vaccinated person in order to assess whether the person to be vaccinated was included in the indication, and to assess the characteristics of the vaccine, the contraindications could be determined. In fact, by obliging workers from different fields of expertise, regardless of their infection, disease, health status, to take vaccination, they were exposed to long - term threats that have an insurmountable impact. Numerous decent biochemists have reminded us in the last year: in medicine, the principle of caution must apply and, above all, the principle of not harming a person must always be carefully weighed against the potential risks and benefits for a person. Unfortunately, this principle does not apply in Hungary during vaccinations. My question, Mr. Secretary of State: who takes responsibility for the administration if vaccinations were given to persons who were in the inextricable area and resulting in a health problem, and who takes responsibility if the person was vaccinated with a vaccine whose properties would have shown that the vaccine was contra-indicated and the person who was vaccinated had a health problem? Dear Secretary of State, I already know that I'm going to get a pretty demagogic answer from you, that the vaccine saved life, that vaccination could avoid further contamination, but the fact is, Mr. Secretary, that statistical data [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And the history of the last two years has shown otherwise. Thank you very much.
u2022-02-21-76	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The interpellation will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. I would like to ask my fellow Members, before I give the floor once and for all, to take a seat, very high ground noise in the room. Please do this. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2022-02-21-77	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] After 2020, after 2021, but in 2022, the Hungarian left does nothing but try to coordinate people against vaccines. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea keeps interrupting.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You also published videos based on all kinds of fake news on Facebook in order to draw attention to yourself, so you still have people in doubt about vaccinations, and they are doing nothing else now. They continue to maintain their proposal, which would still withdraw the administration of Chinese and Russian vaccines, while we are well aware that many of the representatives of the left have given themselves one or another vaccine because they know that they will protect it from serious consequences, but at the same time they are politically maintaining their proposal for a Parliamentary resolution completely contrary to this. They never apologized for the Kamuvideo, even rewarded the Kamuvideo maker by re-launching the election. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and All vaccines used in Hungary, and Hungary has one of the world's largest offers of vaccines, are effective and safe. At the same time, whether in a parliamentary decision or in a petition or in a press release or in social media, the left is constantly attacking and still attacking vaccines, as one of your backups has said, because they believe that if the epidemic has bigger, more serious consequences, your political chances of overthrowing the government and taking over power are better, honourable Member. That is why they said words about vaccines that are human experiments, that are untested, that it is a mistake, that it is a crime, that experimental rabbits are Hungarian people, and that one of the politicians called left-wing politicians said that the disease is better than vaccination, honourable Member. As we have said many times, the rennet doctor decides to do this examination, or the general practitioner or the doctor in the hospital who will give it to you. The exact details of the vaccinations can be read by you, because, on the one hand, which are registered together in the European Union, the European Commission's website describes those that can be read on the website of the OGYÉI, the National Institute for Pharmacy and Food Health in Hungary. In addition, there is a public information on the vaccineinfo.gov.hu website, and you can find a vaccination kite on the koronavirus.gov.hu page. [[15.40]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Obviously, every medical treatment, every intervention, every medicine, every vaccine alone carries risks. We need to consider what is at greater risk: if someone does not inoculate himself, if he listens to such left-wing siren sounds and does not inoculate himself or if he gets vaccinated, and if he does, there may be potential consequences. The exact writings were created and became public from the first second so that every citizen and every doctor who does vaccination can read them. You can read the most detailed descriptions, and the doctors can read it. We published the most important statistics on the virus and vaccinations together with the information published in one of the prestigious international newspapers in order to draw conclusions from it. We have nothing to hide with this, which is why from the first second we put the complete description of the vaccinations on the OGYÉI website, together with all the contraindications, and that is why we have taken down the most important statistical numbers of the Hungarian vaccination in an international standard. If there hadn't been as quick vaccination in Hungary as it was, there would have been about 9500 more victims of the coronal virus epidemic, and if there hadn't been Eastern vaccines, then in the third wave there would have been about 4,000 more people with our countrymen who would have had a chance to survive. The questions you asked were also examined by the Constitutional Court, and you also made a clear decision last December 22nd, in which you did not give you the truth, but the government. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-02-21-78	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I'll ask Congresswoman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2022-02-21-79	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't accept the answer. I would like to introduce myself to Bence of Rétvári after four years: I am Dr. Andrea Varga-Damm, I was not left-wing [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: It's never too late!]] And all the things he told you about who did what, none of it was me. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Didn't you make videos on Facebook?]] So I think that even though you graduated from law school, you still have a problem with text skills at your age, because the problem is that what you're saying wasn't an answer to what I asked. I wasn't talking about the vaccines, I was talking about the vaccination process, I was talking about the vaccination process, I was talking about giving the vaccine to people who couldn't because their underlying disease would have ruled it out. I have one thing for you, Mr Secretary of State: you will have to account for all the thyroid patients who have been vaccinated blindly, and you have a lot of problems since then I will give you an example, but you must have failed to see that, in the September 2021 session, a French Member has submitted to the European Parliament a motion to provide the European Union with a basis for compensation for the side effects of vaccinations.
u2022-02-21-80	I'm waiting for your answer, Congresswoman.
u2022-02-21-81	So there's a reason for my questioning. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2022-02-21-82	Dear Parliament, The congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I would like to inform you that, according to our agreed agenda, the decision will take place between the decisions of today's sitting. Dear Parliament, It's 3:42 p.m., and we've reached the end of the interpellation trial. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work by taking decisions on the agenda. Please take your seats and check that your card has been placed in the ballot counting machine. Dear Parliament, It is up to you to discuss and decide on immunity issues. I would like to inform you that there has been a motion for the waiver of the immunity of independent MEP Erik Fülöp on 16 December 2021 39.Bpk.1750/2021/3. I'm a member of the Nyíregyháza District Court on a private charge of defamation. I gave this to the immunity committee to examine it. The immunity committee is H/18272. Mr Erik Fülöp presented a proposal for a resolution on the immunity of Members of Parliament. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before taking a decision, I give the floor to Mr János Hargitai, Chairman of the Committee, who intends to give oral reasons for the committee's proposal within a five-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. President.
u2022-02-21-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, We've got four private immunity cases ahead of us today. Allow me to add a few additions to this type of case on the last one. I am doing this because I hope that I will speak for the last time in this session as Chairman of the Committee on Exemptions, although, given the creativity of some Members, it is not certain that such matters will not come in the coming days. Turning to this particular case, the District Court of Nyíregyháza approached us in its transcript to suspend the immunity of Parliamentary Congressman Philip Erik, a misdemeanor of defamation. Based on the facts, I can see that the main character of the case is a stray dog. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] Who is the most sympathetic person in this story; some individuals, animalists and the congressman. Among the facts, I see private individuals taking in a stray dog, feeding it, but not being able to raise it permanently, so they turn to animal rightskeepers to ask for help from animal defenders. There's gonna be a report, it's probably done by the animal defenders, there's a poster war on the street, and, of course, the whole story is going to be on the Internet, and the congressman comes up with a comment on this story appearing on Facebook. What is the specific thing that he expressed in his comment, I cannot describe this to the Parliament, unfortunately, because it was not in the documents. It must have been worth it if the reporters filed a complaint against the congressman in private. The District Court of Nyíregyháza requests that the Member's immunity be suspended in order to proceed with the proceedings. This case, I think, is a typical story. In the long term, I would always suggest to Parliament that in such a case, the Member's immunity should not be suspended. The immunity committee unanimously decided on this at its meeting today, and we propose to the Parliament that in the matter in question the Member should not suspend his immunity. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-02-21-84	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Philip Erik if he would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] Mr President, Mr President, it is clear that you do not wish to make use of the opportunity to speak. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I would remind you that the committee has taken a position that the Member's immunity will not be suspended by the Parliament. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. So I ask the Honourable Parliament to suspend the immunity of Members of Parliament Philip Erik. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament has not suspended the immunity of the Member by 3 votes in favour, 146 votes against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, László Sebian-Petrovszki, DK, Member of Parliament, received a motion to waive his immunity on 28 January 2022 13.Bpk.470/2021/12. I'm the judge of the District Court of Békéscsaba in a private charge of defamation. I gave this to the immunity committee to examine it. The immunity committee is H/18273. Mr László Sebian-Petrovszki, Member of Parliament, submitted a proposal for a resolution on his immunity. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before taking a decision, I give the floor to Mr János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee, who intends to give oral reasons for the committee's proposal in a five-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. President.
u2022-02-21-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would also like to point out here that our proposal is the same as what the immunity committee is doing on private charges. This practice should be reviewed by the next Parliament, because this is not one of the typical cases, as the previous one was considered typical. What's this about? The District Court of Békéscsaba shall appeal to the Parliament, requesting the suspension of the immunity of László Sebian-Petrovszki MP. The rating here is also a misdemeanor of defamation. In the light of the facts, I see that the Director General of the National Blood Supply Service is filing a complaint against DK's party director, who accuses the institution and the Director General himself, in public, on YouTube Channel, of selling blood plasma at a price. [[15.50]] Obviously, these are serious claims [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: That's right!]] which would normally be subject to a judicial procedure. The indictor, the private accuser, has a right to think that this is the way to go, if you will, to the National Assembly. However, following this unbroken, I would add, it is not always the case of good practice, as it is a private accusation, that we propose to the Parliament today that the parliamentary assembly should not suspend the immunity of the Member in the case in question. [[István Hollik applauds.]]
u2022-02-21-86	Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr László Sebian-Petrovsk if he would like to speak. [[On the signal of László Sebian-Petrovski:]] Congressman, you have the floor in a five-minute time frame. [[Crying from the pro-government benches: Dr. Agnes Vadai: Relax.]]
u2022-02-21-87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I think we've got a minute or two to explain what case we're talking about here. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: No, no!]] Because I'm not sure it's clear to everyone. First of all, I would like to thank Dr. Andrea Bayerné Matusovits for suing me for proving my claim with documents, so that I have the opportunity here and also in the media to explain how and how he dealt with blood plasma as Director General of the National Blood Supply Service. Let's stick to the facts. What's this about? Blood plasma, which is taken from citizens when they donate blood with blood, can be sold by the Blood Supply Service. It's a very expensive thing, it can be sold for a lot of money, it has a world market, it has a world market price, it's measured at a gold price, because it's an important component of the pharmaceutical industry, it's an important raw material. The problem is that the excess plasma is sold on the world market, the problem is that it was concluded in 2017 and extended to another three years in 2019 without any tenders and without any publicity, which, at that time, was suspected of selling the plasma that we would otherwise take from Hungarians at a lower price than the world market. We can say that this is suspicious, but DK has decided to sue these contracts because the National Blood Service refused to hand over these contracts by requesting data in the public interest. What do we got? The contract that was extended by the Director-General at the beginning of 2019, i.e. at the end of the previous contract, is the contract, but it is about 30 euros cheaper to certain companies than the world market price for it. This, please, was made or decided by Director General Andrea Bayerné Dr Matusovits. [[Máté Kocsis: It's not true!]] I would say that I would record that, of course, I did not claim that he was the intellectual author of this, by the way, the Hungarian state and the taxpayers. [[An uproar in the pro-government benches. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Don't explain.]] adversely affecting a contract, but you may be executing someone else's decision. However, the fact remains that for years the Hungarian state has sold blood plasma below the price, with documents and lawsuits, causing losses of about one billion forints a year. Obviously, if there is a billion HUF loss in the state, it is one billion HUF in someone else's hand. [[Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi applauds.]] That is what I wanted to say in detail, honourable House, and that is why I have proposed it. [[Noise from the pro-government benches. Interjection: Sit down.]] How can this be done, but at the same time these are the facts. I was talking about the facts in this particular press release. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2022-02-21-88	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai standing in his place:]] I would remind you that the committee has taken a position... [[Dr. Agnes Vadai:]] Congresswoman, would you mind... [[He's jogging the bell. Máté Kocsis to Dr. Agnes Vadai, say it bravely in court.]] If you don't mind, Congresswoman, I'm in charge of this meeting. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: No!]] Have a seat. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Why do I have to take a seat?]] I would like to remind you that the committee has taken a position that the Member's immunity will not be suspended by the Parliament. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Like this, like this!]] I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. [[Máté Kocsis to Dr. Agnes Vadai: Why don't you sit down?]] I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to suspend the immunity of Parliamentary MEP László Sebian-Petrovsk. Please vote now. [[It's constant noise. Vote.]] I'm gonna make a decision: [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Dr. Agnes Vadai: You're sneaky and cowardly!]] Parliament... [[Why didn't you save Simonka? The president's gonna ring the bell.]] I declare the resolution: the immunity of the National Assembly László Sebian-Petrovsk [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Did Zsolt Bayer call?]] Suspended by 114 votes to 35 with three abstentions. Dear Parliament, A motion to suspend the immunity of independent MP Ákos Hadházy was received on 3 February 2022 8.Bpk.1238/2021/3/I. I'm a member of the Pécs District Court on a private charge of defamation. I gave this to the immunity committee to examine it. The immunity committee is H/18274. Mr Ákos Hadházy presented a proposal for a resolution on his immunity. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before taking a decision, I will give the floor to Mr János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee, who intends to give oral reasons for the committee's proposal. In a five-minute time frame, Mr. President, you have the floor.
u2022-02-21-89	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, This private charge is the same thing as before. [[Deterioration from the pro-government benches.]] My proposal, of course, will be the proposal of the immunity committee. The Pécs District Court is seeking Parliament for the suspension of Mr Hadházy's immunity. The rating here is also a misdemeanor of defamation. One of the facts is that the former Mayor of Budapest, Prime Minister's Chief Advisor, is filing a complaint against Congressman Hadházy, because the Member publicly stated in a case that István Tarlós would not be a decorative citizen in Budapest, but a prison sentence. As a matter of fact, he raises the case of subway procurement, in which the Mayor did not carry out the kind of practice that the Member would otherwise have expected. The Member always has a strong position on legal matters with regard to veterinary qualifications, as is the case in this case. But here, too, you have to see that he's a lawmaker. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: The Justice Department is full of lawyers!]] conflicts with an institution in the system of implementation. That's how I said the resemblance to the previous case. This is also the case that I would say to a next immunity committee, that you should consider such private prosecutions more nuanced than what has emerged here in Parliament. Of course, I also think it is important, because it is a matter of Members, that agreement between factions should be the basis for a more nuanced assessment. Since this is not the case yet, the immunity committee has unanimously decided on this matter at its meeting today, so that we do not suspend the immunity of the Member on the matter. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Speak to the Sebian! Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Very funny!]]
u2022-02-21-90	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Mr Ákos Hadházy is not in the Chamber, so obviously he does not want to take the opportunity to speak. [[Noise. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] Dear Parliament, please remain patient for a little while longer. Dear Parliament, It's time for a decision. I would like to remind you that the committee has taken a position that the Member's immunity will not be suspended by the Parliament. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to suspend the immunity of Members of Parliament Ákos Hadházy. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament has not suspended the immunity of Ákos Hadházy by 6 votes in favour, 143 votes against and 1 abstention. [[16.00]] Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, Member of the Parliament of Jobbik, received a motion for the waiver of immunity on 11 February 2022 11.Bpk.51.792/2021. on a private charge of defamation by the Central District Court of Pesti. I gave this to the immunity committee to examine it. The immunity committee is H/18275. Mr György Szilágyi presented a proposal for a resolution concerning the immunity of the Member of Parliament. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before taking a decision, I give the floor to Mr János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee, who intends to give oral reasons for the committee's proposal in a five-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. President.
u2022-02-21-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, As has been said here, he is turning to Parliament in the transcript of the Central District Court of Pest, proposing the suspension of the immunity of Congressman György Szilágyi. The rating here is also a misdemeanor of defamation. In light of the facts, I can inform the Parliament that on 4 August 2021 a public event took place in front of the Keleti Railway Station, where Jobbik's Prime Minister's candidate, the party VI. His district deputy mayor and an LMP Member of Parliament attended and recorded the events there with the camera of the journalist, Reporter of Wild Drives. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Journalist?!]] In this series of events, the Member of Parliament, Szilágyi, steps in when he senses that the journalist wanted to address Jobbik's President on a child pornography issue. The reason for this was that in 2019 there was a candidate for the municipality of Gyula for Jobbik, who was involved in that case, so when the journalist wanted to ask the president of Jobbik about it, György Szilágyi, who was also there as a representative, said to the journalist that he was a female-beater because he had beaten his wife several times and that his wife had initiated a restraining order against him. Obviously, the journalist resents that, there's only one way to go, technically, your private accusation. That's how we get the case before us. At today's session, following some of our previous practices, the Committee recommends that Parliament not suspend Mr Szilágyi's immunity in this case. I still have a little time, I just repeat what I said, that I think that a next Parliament in private cases, based on the proposals of the Committee on immunity, but creating a kind of consensus between parliamentary factions, should be looking at how we can judge private prosecution cases more nuanced, breaking up with the practice of defending Members in any case. This is not the function of private accusations and immunity, the Parliament is actually protecting itself from unnecessary harassment. Today's cases were also where the harassment of the National Assembly was not even raised in the case of the private accuser. The need for enforcement by the private accuser must be as important to the Parliament as it is to protect its own work from unnecessary harassment. So I think that the practice in Parliament needs to be corrected, but that will be the task of those after us. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-02-21-92	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, who wishes to take the floor. Here you go, five-minute time frame.
u2022-02-21-93	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to say one sentence about the case. I want to thank God I wasn't born to be Zsolt Bede, so I'm not in the service of Fidesz. Thank you very much.
u2022-02-21-94	Thank you. Dear Parliament, It's time for a decision. I would like to remind you that the committee has taken a position that the Member's immunity will not be suspended by the Parliament. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties. Csaba Dömötör, Bence Tordai interrupts. The president's ringing the bell.]] I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to suspend the immunity of Congressman György Szilágyi. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament has not suspended the immunity of Congressman György Szilágyi by 7 votes in favour, 138 votes against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, In line with our agreed agenda, decisions are now being taken to accept the responses to the interpellations that have been made today. Z. Kárpát Dániel, representative of Jobbik, I/18211. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 113 votes in favour, 36 votes against and 1 abstention. Gurmai Zita, MSZP representative, I/18213. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 116 votes in favour, 35 votes against and 1 abstention. Gergely Arató, representative of DK, I/18207. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 117 votes in favour, 35 votes against and 1 abstention. Antal Csárdi, representative of LMP, I/182018. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 117 votes in favour, 34 votes against and 2 abstentions. Bence Tordai, representative of the Dialogue, I/18217. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 117 votes in favour, 35 votes against and 1 abstention. Varga-Damm Andrea is an independent representative of I/16540. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 116 votes in favour, 19 votes against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, In the absence of a committee agreement, on the basis of the motion tabled by the President, we now decide on the Commission's discussion and decision-making of the proposals. I ask the Honourable Parliament to invite the designated Judicial Committee to submit the Parliamentary Report on the activities of the National Remembrance Committee in 2020 B/17876. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament asked the designated committee to take its decision by 118 votes in favour, 35 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, I ask the Honourable Parliament to ask the designated Economic Committee to address the activities of the Economic Competition Authority, B/18123. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament asked the designated committee to take its decision by 118 votes in favour, 34 votes against and one abstention. [[16.10]] Dear Parliament, It follows a series of 5/2018 on the establishment of parliamentary committees, the election of its officials and members. decision to amend a parliamentary decision. S/18268 put forward by the President You can find out more about this on the website. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the content of the personal proposal put forward by the President. Mr. Messenger!
u2022-02-21-95	Dear Parliament, Point 1. 5/2018 on the establishment of committees, election of officials and members of the Parliament Section 2 of the parliamentary decision is amended as follows: Parliament elects Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP, instead of Dr. Zita Gurmai, MSZP, vice-president of the committee. Point 2: This Decision shall enter into force upon its adoption. Budapest, 21 February 2022
u2022-02-21-96	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept S/18268. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the personal proposal by 149 votes in favour, 1 vote against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the decisions, and now I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. (Sunning: 16.12 16.14) President: István Jakab Note: Dr. Winner Vinnai and Sándor Szabó)
u2022-02-21-97	Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats. [[Noise.]] Thank you for your understanding. Dear Parliament, Péter Jakab and György Szilágyi, representatives of Jobbik, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What do you think of this, Prime Minister?" It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr Gergely Gulyás has given the Prime Minister the right to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2022-02-21-98	Mr President, we would like to wait for Prime Minister 2022.
u2022-02-21-99	I would like to inform you, Mr President, that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:. What do you think of this, Madam Minister? It's an address. Due to the absence of Minister Répássy, Mr Róbert, State Secretary, was entitled to reply. I ask the congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Congressman, you have the floor.
u2022-02-21-100	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I wanted to ask Madam Secretary, but, as we know, she has been running away from the questions ever since the Pegasus case exploded, and since the Volner case exploded, she refuses to answer the questions even more exponentially. Secretary of State, the Ministry of Justice could give a strong opinion to the prosecution. My first question is that you have not noticed what double standards the prosecutor's office is applying in the light of its own practice, when people accused of public crimes, if they are related to Fidesz, are somehow dealing differently with ordinary citizens who, if they commit similar crimes, are much more serious with them. We remember to give you just one example, István Happy, who is sitting in your ranks, was still voting in today, in the corruption case of István Happy, who was involved with him in this corruption case, everyone was arrested in advance, and it was only István Happy, who was not arrested by the prosecution. Then, when we are talking about the biggest corruption case in the history of Hungarian politics, and we are talking about an incredibly mean and filthy Deputy Minister who has fallen to the lowest level and the likely crimes committed by him, Pál Völner will not be put into custody in advance, even though the other players in the case are under arrest in advance. I think, by the way, I said that it was a nasty and dirty matter, because in this case money was taken from the lowest, from the people against whom enforcement is in place, most of these people did not come into this situation because of their own fault, but, for example, it was a foreign exchange loan, and they took away a life's work, and Pál Völner received more than 80 million forints from it, and put it in his pocket. What do you think, Mr. Secretary? Shouldn't you think that Paul Völner should be arrested in advance? Because just as there shouldn't be double standards, there aren't two Fidesz. This is the real face of Fidesz. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2022-02-21-101	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Robert Répássy, Deputy Minister.
u2022-02-21-102	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, You have never been stingy with the adjectives that if you had to classify people, I would like to mention to you that you have called your current party sorority nero here in Parliament. And he said with regard to accountability and imprisonment, that there will be no real accountability here until only a few ninety-year-old people are symbolically punished, not until we dare say that Ferenc Gyurcsány can no longer live in a villa held by his father-in-law from the Jews, and that the Tiny Clan cannot be the eternal identity of our national airline. Jobbik doesn't have enough to put the guilty in jail, we want total accountability. May the National Assembly deprive the murderers of the wealth they received from their bread-payers for spilling the blood of others. Then, if Ference Gyurcsány is removed from the villa of Szemlőhegy, then if Comrade László Kovács does not get a greasy job in Brussels for the years spent in socialism, then if the prosecutor asks Béla Biszku to die, then we can say that the accountability has begun. Honourable Congressman, I don't know how you can account for your conscience. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: You will answer!]] Now that you're working in the party alliance, you're asking for the voter's support for the victory of the man you used to say such things about. So I never thought you'd become Ferenc Gyurcsány's ally. Of course, it's your decision and your party's decision, but I still think that when you want someone to go to jail, you might want to think a little more carefully about what you've said in the last few years. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] Over the last few years, he's wanted all his allies to go to jail, and now he's going to run with you in the election. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You're a little confused about the... Interview from the benches of Jobbik: Tell me, please.]] Klára Dobrev recommended you to the primary representative. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Congressman, that's what your word is worth. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Zoltán Balczó: Secretary of State, answer the question. Answer the subject. Intercoms in Jobbik's benches.]]
u2022-02-21-103	Dear Parliament, If I may, I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi. You have the floor in a one-minute time frame. [[16.20]]
u2022-02-21-104	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you've had 12 years. You should have been accounted for. And I never would have thought of you, by the way, to protect an undersecretary accused of a corruption crime. This man has gone into corruption, he's taken over 80 billion, which means he's put 80 million in the department where you're working right now. This was taken from poor people, the money was taken from troubled people, and here you are... Now you have the nerve to stand up and protect this man? ! You should be the most... As Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, you should be the one who beat the table the most to put this man in jail because you're now an accomplice, making this man an accomplice when you're protecting this man. And you can rely on anything, it's the most serious act of corruption, a Deputy Minister involved in a corruption scandal, and you're still defending it. Shame on you. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Grow a spine, Robi! Grow a spine. Applause for the opposition. Z. Carpathian Daniel: What happened to you?! Grow a spine.]]
u2022-02-21-105	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State in return. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2022-02-21-106	Thank you very much. I've just introduced you to who has become an accomplice, so you've become an accomplice to a lunatic Nero. [[Defiance and interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] in your words. In your words, he became accomplice to a man whose immunity was suspended by the National Assembly, whom the D.A. had not otherwise prosecuted, was interrogated, and he would be on this man's party list in a few days' time. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: You don't dare answer, do you?! Uncomfortable!]] So, Congressman, I think you should look in the mirror. [[György Szilágyi: What about Pál Völner?!]] Look in the mirror, Congressman. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. György Szilágyi: What about Pál Völner?! Zoltán Balczó: Secretary of State, so it was a waste to return to Parliament!]]
u2022-02-21-107	Thank you for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, [[Z. Carpathian to Dr. Robert Répássy: Grow a spine...! Shame!]] Congressman, the agenda is closed. Now, Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Very up-to-date." [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Oops, oops! Not a little bit. A lot.]] Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr Gergely Gulyás has given the Prime Minister the right to reply. I ask the congressman, he accepts the person who is responding.
u2022-02-21-108	Yeah.
u2022-02-21-109	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-02-21-110	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Minister, not for the first time, although I am unfortunately the only one speaking in the very important matters of Szekszárd and his region, and I would like to settle three matters with the Minister in which the decision of the Hungarian Government and the assistance of the Hungarian Government are absolutely necessary. The first is the question of the M9, which we have discussed with you twice in the last year, and you have promised me twice here, within the walls of the House, that a solution will be found that will not adversely affect Szekszárd and its region, so they will not take the trail of the M9 motorway, and you also promised me the last time, several months ago, that a decision will be made. I would expect your reply to have made a decision, because we still do not hear anything about it, and the Fidesz MP is silent on the issue. The other is the matter of the swimming pool in Szekszárd. I do not know that you are aware, Minister, that Szekszárd is the only county seat that has not had an indoor swimming pool for almost seven years. It's not because István Horváth, as mayor, announced that they were building a new swimming pool, that the old one had been closed, that the new one could not be built, that the money was halfway there, that the money was gone, and now the city itself is telling us that they can't do anything about it, or that the government will take over this investment, or that Szekszárd will continue to be ashamed that he doesn't have an indoor swimming pool as a county seat. And the third is the Elios case, Minister, because they left us on the side of the road, because for 750 million forints they changed the lighting, where people fall and fall, people are crashing themselves, in the middle of the pedestrian crossing, because the quality of the lighting is so good, and Szekszárd will not have 750 million forints again to correct this messed-up, stolen investment. I would ask the Minister, in these three cases, people living in Szekszárd and its region can count on the Hungarian government. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]]
u2022-02-21-111	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2022-02-21-112	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, In the case of M9, I can only repeat myself, so there is a debate on the trail, this debate has been held here and with you several times, and that is an obstacle to the conduct of the debate, we are not from a different point of view, there are other points of view than what the Member represents, but no decision has been taken in this matter. In the case of a swimming pool, I can say that I am very sorry that such a situation has arisen. As far as I'm concerned, this is an investment within the municipal framework. If the state can help in this, even by providing additional resources, then, of course, we consider it essential that Szekszárd also have a swimming pool, so was the objective. In recent years, if you look at national development, it is very impressive how many places we have been able to open a swimming pool that offers the opportunity to swim from the youngest to the oldest, either in swimming or in a leisure program, and it is more painful if there is a county seat where for any reason the construction or renovation of the swimming pool has not been completed, especially if there is no swimming pool that can be used at the moment. So I can only offer you the government's help in this, since we have helped you everywhere, of course the government is committed to sport, committed to the national swimming programme, which we have supported specifically on the proposal of the Swimming Alliance, and in this Szekszárd deserves to be among the first. And in the Elios case, as far as I know, there's a warranty claim. If this is justified and legal support is needed, then we are available. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-02-21-113	Thank you very much for the Minister's reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2022-02-21-114	Thank you very much. I hope the Minister doesn't want to deal with warranty claims personally, because there are too many lamps for that. Your colleague said that the Hungarian government had nothing to do with this investment. I'm asking you, Minister, you know that, not warranty. They stole that investment and installed lamps where they couldn't be seen even if they were working. The whole thing, the way it is, has to be thrown out and rebuilt, it can't be done without a government source. I have not yet received a satisfactory answer to my first question from you; nor to my other question, which is most important, and believe me, Minister, that 60,000 people are watching these answers now, because there is a parliamentary election, and it really concerns the people who live there, who they can expect from them. This answer is unacceptable, what you are saying about the M9 because, although you did speak of a dilemma the other day, you said that there would be a solution that would give me or my question the right answer, and the decision will be made, and now you say that there will be no such decision. Finally, in the swimming pool case, please be clear, Minister: the Hungarian state takes over the leftover Szekszárd [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] (The president bell rings) And finish the town instead? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]]
u2022-02-21-115	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. You have the floor.
u2022-02-21-116	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, There may be a misunderstanding about my first answer, and I didn't say that it was a decision because it wasn't, so I can only repeat my previous answer. As regards the case of the swimming pool, let us first examine the case, not that it needs a swimming pool, because it must not be disputed, not that it needs financial assistance, because from what it says, I assume that this is necessary, but that the municipality must provide resources to complete the investment, the state must take over, these are technical issues. The point is, we agree that no county seat can be used without a high-quality swimming pool. In this, the government will help the people who live there; if necessary for lighting, then, of course, in that too. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-02-21-117	I thank the Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, László Varju, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question:.. How many Völner cases have distracted you from the real problems of the country? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Deputy Minister András Tállai responds. I ask the congressman, he accepts the person who is responding.
u2022-02-21-118	Yes, thank you.
u2022-02-21-119	Yeah. You have the floor.
u2022-02-21-120	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Last time we met in December, we tried to warn you that the time for misconception is over, and action must be taken, because 7.4 percent inflation threatens the livelihoods of millions of Hungarians. It's been two months, you didn't do anything, in January it all became 7.9 percent inflation. We could almost ask you with curiosity what you have been doing here at the title of government. But the truth is, we know you better than to get an honest answer to such a question, because every morning we find dirtier details about the jewel of your corrupt government system, the Völner-Schadl scandal, every day we learn more and more details. Mr Secretary of State, I do not mention that in a normal European country, after such a major scandal, in which the involvement of your fellow ministers would arise, Judit Varga or Antal Rogán should immediately have asked for a clarification of the situation. [[16.30]] They didn't. They do not, but at the very least, in this situation, it is necessary to have a fair and expected examination by voters. Instead, you're hiding from a meaningful debate. But perhaps we were right to expect you, under the influence of guilt, to turn to the election campaign and still achieve some real government performance. So, Mr Secretary of State, I have no choice but to ask you how many cases like the Völner scandal have you worked to remove in the last few weeks that you have not had time to govern. I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2022-02-21-121	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Minister András Tállai. Here you go.
u2022-02-21-122	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I'm honored that you're asking the Minister of Finance about the Völner case, the prosecution procedure, the administrative procedure, but what I can tell you is that the Ministry of Finance, the Secretary of State of the Minister of Finance, will not be able to answer these questions. And to suggest that this case has distracted the Ministry of Finance from its work, I can tell you that it has not been distracted by the Ministry of Finance. It will carry out its implementation of the budget. It concludes that it provides resources to combat the Covid epidemic and provides resources to resuscitate the economy. It concludes that the debt does not exceed 80 per cent in any way and does so to ensure that the country has an acceptable budget deficit on an EU average. And the Ministry is also doing its job, and there is no distraction from the fact that it collects tax revenues from the NAV, and it collects significant tax revenues, while government tax policy also belongs to the Ministry of Finance, and the essence of it is the tax reduction that we have implemented, the whole country can feel. And he's also doing that the Treasury is paying state payments, wages, incomes in time, and the public sector employees are getting it. I think that the Ministry of Finance's work, that it has been neglected or that anything else has distracted us, cannot be criticized. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-02-21-123	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. I'll ask the congressman if he'll take the answer. You have the floor.
u2022-02-21-124	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I'm starting to feel like you guys are totally at peace with the idea of election defeat. [[Defiance from the pro-government ranks. Gergely Gulyás applauds.]] because with the economic policy that you have reached, rather than admitting the mistakes of the government's economic policy over the past period, the essence or outcome of which is a record shortage, record fuel prices, record government debt, it all stays on people's necks. We have all been waiting for substantial economic action, and it has not happened in recent months. But during this period, which you spoke about, Hungary became the poorest country in Europe, Hungary with the least consumption, Hungary with the most corrupt country, only Bulgaria could be prevented. [[Miklós Soltész: Subway 4.]] But it's your fault, and it seems to me that you've been distracted by something, Mr. Secretary of State. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Valley Bridge! Miklós Soltész: Subway 4, City Hall, Chain Bridge!]] Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2022-02-21-125	Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Mr. Deputy Minister. You have the floor.
u2022-02-21-126	Honourable Congressman, The thought or feeling of defeat has come to you, even though there has not been a choice, because during the pre-election, you were crimping here, so that Klára, so Klára, will be Prime Minister, and now you must realize that Klára told Peter that you were unfit to be Prime Minister, and that you must support this man. So you should be friends with that idea on April 3rd at 9:00 p.m. And as for the record gap, your deficit, even though it wasn't a crisis, was higher than the current government during the crisis, because you had 9 percent, and now it's 7.5 percent. The price of fuel is envied by neighbouring countries and protested in Slovakia in order to introduce the same fuel stop. The same is true of public debt. What you have listed here is not true of any of your words about the current government's economic policies. Thank you. [[Interjection from the pro-government ranks: That's right! Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-02-21-127	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes and Krisztina Hohn, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Who takes responsibility, Prime Minister? It's an address. In his absence, Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, has appointed him to respond. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2022-02-21-128	I'd like to ask the Prime Minister personally. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2022-02-21-129	I would like to inform you, Mr President, that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Krisztina Hohn, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "Why can't people count on the government?" It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, has given him the right to reply. I'm asking if you'd like to accept the recipient's identity. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2022-02-21-130	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Minister, You must be aware of the problems of Budapest and its agglomeration area. I'd like to ask you a specific question about Nagytarcha. I don't know how you heard from the press that a group of Nagytarchai recently held a protest in the settlement. Unfortunately, the problems that affect them affect not only them, but also several settlements of the agglomeration. Such as the fact that healthy drinking water does not always flow from the tap, their roads are very bad. I've been contacted by a number of people over the past few years because of this, that they're looking for some kind of help. Another problem is that the body of representatives disbanded itself in October 2020 and since then no municipal elections have been issued because of the pandemic situation, but the inhabitants do not understand why this could not be done since then, if parliamentary elections or referendums could be issued, why the local elections were not held. We know that there is such a government decree, and I am aware of it, but they would like to see a change at last in their settlement, not satisfied with the work of the mayor and the body of representatives. I have to ask you, when are you going to help the problems of the agglomerations, the roads, the waste water eruptions that are typical. The population of Nagytarcsa has also multiplied, which usually helps a settlement to develop, but the infrastructure has not developed properly. That's why the sewage pipes are overloaded, there's often a water pressure problem, there's sewage eruptions coming out of the sidewalk and there's sewage coming out from here and there. It's also common in Kerepes, unfortunately. It is very important that the problem of those living in the agglomeration is finally taken seriously. Today, there were also two Commission meetings, which unfortunately did not accept either of our proposals, which could have been forward-looking in this case. So I'm asking you, when are you going to take any meaningful steps? Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2022-02-21-131	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office. Here you go.
u2022-02-21-132	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As far as the issue of municipal interim elections is concerned, I can say that it may also be said that there was consensus that, until now, the election was not the luckiest. There is no doubt that the next month's viral forecast is much more optimistic than ever in previous months, but perhaps we also agree that the parliamentary election campaign would not be the luckiest two or three weeks before the election. As the parliamentary election runs, we will immediately allow the representative referred to by the government decree to call for local elections, and they can be held everywhere in May. Where the nomination is still required or the nomination procedure has not been completed, this may be postponed to June, but it will depend only on the legal deadlines. We can trust that, from summer onwards, elected everywhere, then elected municipal leadership can work in an interim election if necessary. As for the issue of the plumbing network and agglomeration, it is probably a bigger issue than being able to answer it in 45 seconds, but there is no doubt a legitimate suggestion that the replacement of the plumbing network will be the next few years, one of the biggest tasks of the decade where this is needed, or where the water pressure in the agglomeration or even in the Balaton Highlands has increased significantly due to relocations. This is what we plan to use a large part of EU funds for. [[16.40]] So, if I may ask you to act in your own groups or allies in order not to compete abroad in order to harm Hungary and this country, by not calling on European Union funds in a timely manner, but perhaps to join together for common goals, and then to use European Union funds for such purposes, we would certainly be more effective. I ask for your help, Congresswoman. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-02-21-133	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return.
u2022-02-21-134	Thank you very much for your answer, Minister. I'm glad you answered my questions. The only thing about joining forces is that I have been trying to work together here for four years, and in one case I have succeeded when the legislative amendments to the adoption were put into the legislative proposal, which I am very happy to do, but it is a pity that this was said at one of the last meetings, since Hungary's development is in our common interest. Thank you very much.
u2022-02-21-135	Thank you, Congresswoman. You have a rejoinder, Minister. You have the floor.
u2022-02-21-136	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, even after interest in the Hungarian village, it was as if a representative woman had been successful, which is also correct, since more than 99 percent of the small settlements in the Hungarian village programme were won, so virtually all applicants could win. You brought up the adoption as an example. I believe that if all opposition representatives of the Hungarian Parliament could succeed in two or three cases, we would be much better placed before the public in the relations between the government and the opposition. So I hope that in the next term we will be able to work constructively with the opposition in a similar way, not only one Member or a few, but also a wider circle, even if there are worrying signs. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-02-21-137	Dear Parliament, Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What's going on? It's an address. Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, was entitled to reply because of his absence. I would like to ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Minister himself for an answer. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-02-21-138	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, What's going on? While we're sitting here arguing, dozens of armed tax detectives are invading Gábor Iványi's association, the homeless Charity Association that helps tens of thousands of people survive or help them escape poverty. You are accusing Gábor Iványi of fraud, the Evangelical Brotherhood in Hungary, which you are robbing in a fraudulent way. You owe billions to the Hungarian state, Gábor Iványi, the Fidesz government, and you will send the armed tax investigators to them. In 2011, your shameful law of ecclesiastical law deprived the church of the Evangelical Brothers' Community in Hungary, and in spite of the fact that by 2017 not only the Constitutional Court, but also the European Court of Justice, did this illegally, and you have done billions of HUF to the Church of Iványiek, which you have to reimburse, you have not been willing to settle the legal situation. You are lying to Christians, and you are truly working to help the poor in a Christian way, and you are pursuing a political vendetta against it, only because Gábor Iványi would have accepted the joint presidential candidate for opposition, and because Viktor Orbán declared personal revenge against him, because while he had previously held him high, Gábor Iványi remained, who was, and Orbán betrayed his principles, betrayed his constituents, and, as Gábor Iványi has often said, he has built an inhuman, extremist system that works against the poor instead of raising them. I understand that you're conducting a vendetta, but I'm asking you how you have enough humanity left to stop the NAV and finally give the Church of Gábor Iványi the billions of forints you owe them. We're very curious to hear your answer.
u2022-02-21-139	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2022-02-21-140	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Where Gábor Iványi has his opponents, seek this man within their own house, for someone has vetoed him to be your candidate for head of state. I understand your angry outburst here. When the six parties and one civil society organisation sat down there and their candidate for Prime Minister, and someone then vetoed against the proposal of their candidate for Prime Minister, you should have spoken there, honourable Member, not here in front of Parliament. This is not a political issue you're talking about. You had a political debate about whether or not you considered his nomination politically good. What you're talking about is a simple administrative issue that public authorities have to deal with on the basis of equality of law. I can tell you how much extra funding Gábor Iványi received from our wallet, EMMI, between 2012 and 2020 in addition to the normative one: he received HUF 2.5 billion in surplus to help people who need it. They are not the only ones who have received it, and, fortunately, there is a lot of charity in Hungary, so please don't underestimate them either. Do not speak in your speech as if there were only one charitable organization in Hungary, when, thanks to God, other ecclesiastical or non-choral, Maltese, Catholic, Reformed, eco-menical aid organizations are also doing so. Perhaps you could acknowledge them, not just one of the others, honourable Member. So if you're looking for where Gábor Iványi is, so to speak, his opponents, don't go looking for him here, not at the NAV, because they're just doing what the laws tell them to do. You haven't said a single piece of legislation that would have been violated, because you want to make a political match out of it, which doesn't involve any kind of politics. In addition to the normative support, we provided them with HUF 2.5 billion in eight years. Those who need help, whichever institution goes, will be helped by the State in the same way, but we only ask that everyone adheres to the laws in the settlement process and in the payment of utility bills in the same way. Whoever does this will find a partner in the Hungarian state as long as we are in the government, and we will also provide additional support. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-02-21-141	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2022-02-21-142	Secretary of State, you're a pathetic distraction. The problem is that we stand next to the Church of Gábor Iványi because the other churches receive their support, but they receive 1.5 billion forints less each year than they deserve. You're not going to comply with the court's judgment. You're running a political vendetta against the Iványi Gábors, which is why you need a political stand for them. I would like to tell you that the representatives of all the parties of the united opposition are on Dankó Street right now at Iványi's, so this wedge-beating tactic is not going to work out for you. If they were really Christians, if they were Democrats, they would immediately be out of the field, on their knees, apologizing to Gábor Iványi and paying the billions of forints they deserve. On the other hand, you are enemies of good people, enemies of churches, enemies of the poor, and therefore you rightly deserve to fail on April 3rd if you cannot change your behavior so much.
u2022-02-21-143	Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Mr. Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2022-02-21-144	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, There's no lack of confidence in you, I must say. That language of love was very kind of you, what you just said. Honourable Congressman, I continue to say that if you are looking for Gábor Iványi's thugs anywhere, you should contact them within your own party family or Gyurcsányi's cooperation, because that's where it happened. As far as the trial before the international court is concerned, honourable Member, the procedure has been carried out, and it has not established a summary, we have sat down, we have agreed, and since then cooperation between the Hungarian state and the sister community has been functioning accordingly. Once again, you want to turn this into some kind of scandal, political capital, honourable Member. We provide these subsidies for everyone, but regardless, everyone has to pay utility bills and public charges in the same way, there is no difference. As I said, we helped them operate with an extra HUF 2.5 billion in eight years. I believe that this shows that the attention of the state has been outstanding to the people they care for. Thank you very much.
u2022-02-21-145	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr.Barna Pál Zsigmond, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of State in charge of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman. [[16.50]]
u2022-02-21-146	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Within a very short period of time after Gergely M. Mayor Christmas's entry into office in 2019, several people previously linked to Bajnai were transferred to the City Hall. The Bajna has also played a significant role in the Christmas campaign, so the awards began quickly in the form of real estate dogs in the capital, in which they reached the sale of the Town Hall. Bajnai denies negotiating the sale of City Hall even though it is clearly demonstrated by recordings. According to public recordings, former Prime Minister Gordon Bajnai's men, Deputy Mayor Kiss Ambrus and Csaba Tordai, Chief Counselor of Christmas control the capital. According to press reports, a system has been set up to recover 8-10 percent of the value of the property sold as commission, and the system is managed by Deputy Mayor Kiss Ambrus. In connection with the planned sale of City Hall, Mayor Gergely Christmas came from total denial to full confession, and it turned out that Bajnai was actually the former Prime Minister and related people behind the planned real estate sale. From these events it became clear that the leaders of Hungary's most corrupt government, Gyurcsány and Bajnai, rule the Town Hall and want to take the country's leadership again. The left continues in the same place where he left off in 2010. The people of the Bajnai-Gyurcsány government have returned, which is why the City Hall is full of corruption cases. There's nothing new under the sun, there's a lie in the blood of the left. In view of what has been said, I respectfully ask Minister, such a left has been able to manage the State's wealth in a responsible manner. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-02-21-147	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister.
u2022-02-21-148	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, The situation is indeed peculiar to the fact that we have seen often in recent years that prominent players on the left are trying to lie to someone without a foundation. But the fact that someone is trying to lie to himself is the first one, because we can hear exactly what he said at a meeting, how he talked about the commission system they operate at City Hall, how he told us that six hands reach for the commission system in the case of the six parties, and what operating system it provides or provides at City Hall. So we know this case. It is also quite shocking to know that all those who participated in the City Hall's sale attempt were awarded a reward, which probably remained experimental because the media pointed out in time that the Gergely Christmas would even like to sell and sell their own jobs. We don't know what the motivation is, there are different explanations. I just want to draw attention to the fact that nothing has changed. We remember precisely that between 2002 and 2010, the most corrupt period of government in Hungary came during the period of administration of Péter Medgyessy, Ferenc Gyurcsány, and then Gordon Bajnai. And we can also see that, to this day, people who were involved in government work at the time and who did not pursue corruption in government work, or who, according to certain suspicions, even promoted it, have now appeared in the capital, because there was a victory on the left. So we have to assume that where the left appears, these figures will appear, along with the dividend system and corruption. It's better to avoid that. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-02-21-149	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2022-02-21-150	Thank you for your answer, Minister. What's happening at City Hall is truly worrying, the Demszky-Legian era is coming back to us. But not only is corruption making the corridors of City Hall loud, but we can also see that nothing is happening in the city. All kinds of fake acts happen, bike lanes, wasp garages, facebooking, and practically two and a half years ago, the development of the capital stopped. So, on the one hand, they don't do any real work, and on the other hand, they want to privatize everything. We saw this after 1994, we saw it after 2002. For example, the left privatized public services, privatised public services, public utilities, which is why Hungarian people paid very high rents, the highest rent in Europe. Thanks to the fact that the Orbán government has bought back these service providers and has taken steps to ensure balanced market conditions, the Hungarian people today pay the lowest prices in Europe. It is indeed sad to see that the Town Hall will show us in small measure what would be expected if the left came to power in Hungary. Don't let that happen, never to the left again. Thank you.
u2022-02-21-151	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. You have the floor.
u2022-02-21-152	Thank you very much. Despite expectations, there won't be much debate between us. [[Defiance.]] I agree that a bad sighting of left-wing governance is all that happens in the capital. The capital didn't grow in much, the capital didn't grow in almost nothing in the years left behind. What we have more, we can list. There are significantly more scandals than before, there are significantly more homeless people in Budapest today, significantly more garbage in Budapest, and significantly more traffic jams. We can say that this is the result and impression of the two - year - old activity of the city administration. We know that those from the agglomeration have to spend about an hour and a half longer a day in their vehicle since the left came to power, and since they have painted bicycle lanes, for example, on the Grand Boulevard, where if you go through several times, you may be able to count one or two cyclists, but the vehicles are in long traffic jams, and then they pollute the environment. So no rational logic is leading the city in its decisions. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-02-21-153	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Congressman Csaba Gyüre, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What do you think of this, Prime Minister?" It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, has given him the right to reply. I'm asking you to accept the identity of the responder.
u2022-02-21-154	Thank you very much, I accept.
u2022-02-21-155	Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-02-21-156	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Minister, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, According to the well-founded suspicion of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, between May 2018 and mid 2021, Pál Völner occasionally accepted a sum of HUF 2-5 million as bribe money, amounting to HUF 83 million. This is a very serious corruption scandal of the last decade, but I think it's just the tip of the iceberg. But let us look at the situation in Hungary as regards corruption. Every year, there is a list of corruption perceptions that ranks all countries in the world. If we select the last one from this, 2021, we can see that Hungary has made its situation worse and is the last in the European Union, only Bulgaria will be prevented. By the way, Hungary is the most corrupt country in the EU. We are the 73rd in the world ranking, the Orbán government managed to govern the country from 46th to 73rd in ten years. We can see that there has been systemic corruption in Hungary. The main reason for this is that government parties with almost unlimited power and related business circles occupied almost all parts of public life and economic life, the public bodies responsible for control became NER's servers, politics affects criminal policy, keeping the prosecution in hand, there is no anti-corruption prosecutor's office in Hungary, we have not joined the European Public Prosecutor's Office. The dismantling of democratic institutions, the continuing gradual abolition of the rule of law, the amazing enrichment of NER knights, and the establishment of a legal system based on legal fraud can be observed. How do you feel about that, Minister, is that all right? Is the country's wagon okay? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2022-02-21-157	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister.
u2022-02-21-158	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, Given that in two minutes you have partially denied yourself, I am merely drawing attention to the contradictions that were seen in your speech. If the D.A. were to be hand-operated, it would hardly be possible that a Fidesz Member of Parliament and the Deputy Minister would be suspected of serious corruption less than four months before the elections. This fact alone renders the other allegations, which have been listed here for a long time, completely uncredited. What we see in several cases is that you refer to the prosecution's persecution of crime, crime and corruption, whether committed by a fidesz or opposition representative, or whether there is any quality of representation of a person who commits any crime. This is, of course, correct in our view, even if it involves a pro-government side. More eloquent evidence of the independence of the prosecution and the persecution of corruption can hardly be. You're talking about a list of corruption perceptions, but I'm going to put it in your favor, and you didn't say that this is a list of Transparency, because Transparency is the only one making a list of corruption perceptions. [[17.00]] 'Cause he's a former [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: He's looking at the nose of his shoes right now!]] Even in our debates during the period of constitutionalization, I never thought that you would quote the various statistics of György Soros, which, we know quite well, reality will not affect me to the slightest extent in a political debate. But I'm trying to get past my shock, and I'm just telling you that the rankings of the organizations funded by George Soros are not a meaningful activity, a real state, but a political sympathy of George Soros. I suggest you don't fully join this team. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-02-21-159	I thank the Minister for his reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2022-02-21-160	The Minister said that, in fact, corruption is not so strong in this country and that there is no systemic corruption. I'll give you a few names, if you'll allow me to highlight you here. For example, Flórian Farkas, who sits in your ranks, or I would highlight the name of Miklós Simon, or Rolandé Mengyi, aka Voldemort, György Simonka, István Happy and Pál Völner. Just some of the people who are sitting here now in general, I think none of them are here, and yet they're being prosecuted, suspected of a corruption crime, or there have been prosecutions against them. Mr. Secretary. Is there more down there? But it's just the tip of the iceberg. Where will we go in Hungary if we see this? Corruption in Hungary, the fact that it is growing stronger, has become incredibly strong over the last ten years, and we also see that there is no corruption prosecution, we do not dare to join the European Public Prosecutor's Office, and this leads to further corruption in Hungary. What do you think of that, Minister? [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-02-21-161	Dear Parliament, You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2022-02-21-162	I think that Jobbik would no longer only give up the sovereignty of the country, but also gave up its own sovereignty in its cooperation with the Democratic Coalition. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Worry about yourselves!]] In the past, it would have been unimaginable for you to support joining an organisation led by a person named Laura Kövesi, whose concept-based procedures against Hungarian politicians and DAHRs in Romania, you protested in the same way as we did, and you believe that this organization, which, by the way, is violating sovereignty, will do good in Hungary or anywhere else. I think you should consider whether you are on the right track to encourage Hungary to join an organisation led by a Romanian, former anti-Hungarian prosecutor. My fellow Member has not been able to resolve this contradiction, but he has just further confirmed that you have listed who, in the last 12 years, in more than 300-400 people who have been pro-government representatives, the 3-4-5 against whom the prosecutor's office or the court have identified suspicions or crimes. This shows that the rule of law works, and, of course, no one is acquitted of the crimes committed, no one enjoys impunity, and no one can be forgiven if he commits an act of corruption for you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-02-21-163	Dear Parliament, István Hollik, a representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:. What can we do to ensure that the past does not return? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr Répássy, State Secretary, Deputy Minister, was entitled to reply. I'm asking you to accept the response. [[István Hollik: Yes.]] Yeah. You have the floor.
u2022-02-21-164	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, The Hungarian people were right to think in 2010 that Ference Gyurcsány was sent away from power once and for all with extraordinary authority. It is a fact that with hard work, but what you can see today is that Ferenc Gyurcsány fought back as leader of the left, he is today the leader of the left, and he wants to get back in power today. So the left hasn't changed in 12 years, the same leader, the same characters, and the same method. That is why we should not be surprised that among the left-wing candidates there is Csaba Czeglédy, the lawyer of Ferenc Gyurcsány, who is a convicted tax criminal, and the Vas County Bar also suspended his membership, because he has committed not only a crime in the past, but he is still in the process of prosecuting him. When I said that the methods do not change on the left, this proves that Ferenc Gyurcsány first gave Csaba a nomination for MEP, thus preventing the work of justice from hiding behind immunity. They want to do this again, because they have made Csaba Czeglédy a candidate in the hope that he will get a parliamentary mandate, and the immunity that comes into force at the time of the adoption of the mandate prevents the administration of justice from acting against Csaba Czeglédy. My question is, therefore, how long will we tolerate the fact that the left is constantly obstructing criminal proceedings in connection with Csaba Czeglédy, citing a legal loophole. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-02-21-165	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Robert Répássy, Deputy Minister.
u2022-02-21-166	Thank you for the floor. Honourable Congressman, The situation described by you is entirely based on facts. So the party association led by Ferenc Gyurcsány launches a suspect in criminal proceedings in Szombathely, expecting its opponents to account for the people who have been prosecuted. Well, in addition to Csaba Czeglédy, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that another criminal suspect, László Bige, supports this party alliance. So it's not enough that a suspect is running for election, but your Prime Minister candidate is proud to say that he accepts the financial support of a suspect. What if it's not corruption? What else is this if it's not corruption? If you know that someone is being prosecuted, there's a moral part of that, obviously, that it's worth recommending to the electorate a person who, by the prosecution, is already facing criminal charges, because there's already been an indictment here, so we can't just talk about an investigation. So one of them is a moral problem. But there is also a legal problem: is funding coming from a suspect legal? I therefore believe that these issues should be addressed after the elections. The question of how to prevent it is that it can be changed by law. It is necessary to elect parties to the Parliament that will stop it. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] This method. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-02-21-167	Thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2022-02-21-168	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I agree, Mr Secretary of State, that we cannot expect renewal on the left, and this is proof of Csaba Czeglédy's candidacy. But the Secretary of State is right, there is also the role of László Bige in this circle. I'd like to make my next suggestion. In order to control harmful processes, the government temporarily announced a stop policy, interest stop, gas stop and food price stop. My proposal is to supplement this on April 3rd with a next stop, Gyurcsány, but this should not be temporary, but permanent. I think that with Gyurcsány hitchhiking, this process can be permanently stopped. Thank you very much.
u2022-02-21-169	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Deputy Minister shall be rejoined. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to respond. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, László Varga, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: When will the resources needed for the operation of Miskolc be returned? It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr Gergely Gulyás has given the Minister the right to reply. I'm asking if you'll take it. [[Dr. László Varga: I accept.]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-02-21-170	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, The municipal elections have significantly re-arranged Hungary's political map, elected mayor and majority body in Hungary from among the politicians of opposition and today's opposition parties in millions of Hungarian residences. After a few weeks of actual break, the government immediately considered what to do: declared war on the municipalities. [[17.10]] Under the cover of the Covid epidemic, the already declining municipal revenues were further cut with austerity; it took away the car tax from the municipalities; it reduced the local business tax with inadequate compensation; I am referring to cities with a population of more than 25,000, which did not receive adequate compensation, especially Miskolc. What was, however, completely incomprehensible during this period was the abolition of public public transport support in rural areas. This affected the city of Miskolc by HUF 500 million a year. In 2019 the city received this amount, not in 2020 and 21, and it is not planned to be traced back this year, despite any previous promises. I would add that the previous Fidesz city administration did not pay the public transport company MVK Zrt. a public service fee of some HUF 4 billion, and in Hungarian your political community owes this to MVK Zrt. It actually likes movie metaphors, so let me tell you, I owe you a note for your part. By adding up these amounts, they owe Miskolc and Miskolc about 5.5 billion on public transport. I'd like to ask you, Minister, when your debt will be paid. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2022-02-21-171	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go.
u2022-02-21-172	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I'd say we're living with a setback, but it's worse, and I'm gonna have to make a counterclaim. The fact is that if I follow your logic and it belongs to the political community under which, even if the political power leading a local government is being raised, Miskolc's debt in 2010 when the socialist mayor left his office was HUF 36.2 billion. That's what we let go of, HUF 36.2 billion of debt burdened Miskolc. If I count 5.5 billion, they owe us more than 30 billion. When are you gonna pay for this? Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-02-21-173	Thank you, Minister. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2022-02-21-174	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. You gave a pretty cynical answer to the Miskolcs, Minister. They have obviously rearranged the responsibilities and powers of the municipalities during this period, but they have also taken away a lot of revenue from the municipalities; they have also taken away health institutions and most of the education; they have maintained well-known high schools and primary schools in a different way, and this has been extremely harmful in the life of county seats, including Miskolc. But it doesn't matter. Obviously, these new opportunities will be returned to the county seat after the change of government. The investments that you have brought to this city are accompanied by a serious question mark, and you have also set up a Prime Minister's Commissioner, such as the Ellipsum Bath, where the operator has reported some 52 errors, there are now warranty works, and there are also serious static questions about the Castle of Diósgyőr. So we're gonna have to clean up these investments after the change of government, it looks like, and we're gonna give back what's coming to the Miskolcs. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] , including public support for public transport. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2022-02-21-175	Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2022-02-21-176	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that if I follow your logic and you consider it cynical, then this is also self-critic in this respect. But as far as Miskolc's affairs are concerned, indeed, local government-state responsibilities and powers have changed. This does not change the fact that in 2010 the local industrialisation tax revenue of Miskolc was HUF 443 billion, which was close to HUF 800 billion in 2019. Not to mention that we left nearly HUF 2 billion in Miskolc with the 1-percent business tax rule, and Miskolc is one of the ones from which the Hungarian state did not receive a penny: this means that small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in Miskolc did not have to pay the tax. This meant only and only expenditure to the Hungarian State, because we gave compensation; Miskolc, for example, received compensation of HUF 1.35 billion. We're discussing developments in Miskolc. For the investment in the castle, you mention that there was an extra cost of about HUF 1 billion due to a static problem, but there, for example, we are carrying out a 13 billion investment, of which 12 billion is available; the additional costs were previously committed by the municipality. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] If there has been a change in this, we will be constructive partners with the municipality and we will try to negotiate so that the investment in Diósgyőr can take place. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-02-21-177	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Today's last immediate question will be heard. Gyula Budai, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:. Decent of representing the Hungarian people a criminal suspect? It's an address. Due to her absence, the Minister authorised Mr Répássy Róbert, Minister of State, to reply. I'm asking if you'd like to accept the recipient's identity. [[On Dr. Gyula Budai's mark:]] Yeah. You have the floor.
u2022-02-21-178	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Katalin Cseh, member of the European Parliament of Momentum, is deeply silent in the opposition press on his corruption case, while following my announcement the investigation of the Public Procurement Authority and the investigators of the NAV found that the intervention of a Czech enterprise could result in a round-the-clock bill, i.e. the purchase price of nearly HUF 1 billion paid by the Hungarian buyer has fully migrated back to a member of the business network linked to Katalin. The European Anti-Fraud Office, OLAF, and the Hungarian Competition Authority have also conducted a search of the members of the company network linked to Katalin, Czech Republic, and filed a criminal report on the crime of fiscal fraud. Katalin Cseh, who, despite his daily lance for transparent economic competition at equal odds, has become famous for having received more than HUF 4.8 billion of EU funding thanks to suspicious tendering manoeuvres in the printing business network linked to his name. So we can see that there is no renewal on the left, no two lefts, no new faces, no new methods, because under the leadership of Ferenc Gyurcsány, the people of the failed past are trying to return to power. It is sad that not only moral but also serious criminal liability can be included in the daily line of the left ringing the alarm bells of the rule of law. Dear Secretary of State, In view of what has been said, I ask that you are worthy of the representation of the Hungarian people by a person suspected of committing a crime. Thank you very much, I look forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-02-21-179	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Robert Répássy, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2022-02-21-180	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, The fact that he is worthy of representing the Hungarian people is clearly not my answer, but the Hungarian people will wisely decide that. It is indeed typical that the left, led by Ferenc Gyurcsány, starts Csaba Czeglédy in Szombathely, accepts financial support from László Bige, and, as he said, Katalin Cseh is in the queue, so the members of such a beautiful selection will start on the other side, who are ignoring the fact that they are involved in current matters, and not only would they take responsibility, but they would ask for the voter's trust even further. So the difference between words and actions is enormous, but let's not be surprised, Ferenc Gyurcsány leads this electoral cooperation, who, as he said, lied at night and at night, so the current party alliance is characterised by the same idea. I would like to say to you, Mr House, that the budget fraud mentioned by the Member is the Btk. 396. According to Article 3 of the Act, it is punishable by imprisonment of up to 3 years, but if it is committed by causing a greater disadvantage, it may be punishable by imprisonment of up to 1-5 years or by imprisonment of up to 2-8 years if it causes a serious financial disadvantage; not to mention if a crime is committed in an alliance or in a business, because in this case it may be punishable by imprisonment of up to 5-10 years. So, of course, we don't know exactly what happened, and the investigating authority will determine that. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In any case, it is not a small criminal case. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-02-21-181	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I'll give the floor to the congressman in return, please.
u2022-02-21-182	Dear Secretary of State, I would, however, like to point out to my fellow opposition Members that four authorities are investigating the corruption of Katalin, Czech. He's investigating the NAV budget fraud. OLAF, the European Anti-Fraud Office, is under investigation, which you refer to so much. [[17.20]] The Hungarian Competition Authority is under investigation, a search was carried out and a complaint was filed in this case, also due to fiscal fraud. And now the Public Procurement Authority is also looking into it, because there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that the contracting authorities have participated in the public procurement procedure and that the tenderers have participated in the tendering procedure in the same economic interest group, and that the same Czech company has always won it, and as a result of the public procurement procedure, it has taken the EU funds. That is why nearly one billion forints were paid to this Czech company, which, by the way, is conditional [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] He transferred this money back to another company in the economic interest of Katalin of the Czech Republic. It would be worth considering, honourable opposition representatives. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-02-21-183	Thank you very much, Congressman. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-02-21-184	Honourable Congressman, Today we have talked about cases that prove that the left has double standards: they hide their own affairs, their own affairs never have any consequences, and they accuse the government side of what they have done. I therefore believe that the election of 3 April will also explain and answer this, since the most serious suspicion, the most serious accusation, is directed against people who are otherwise engaged in political activity and are running for elections. Therefore, it is not enough for us to give our views here, but we trust that the voters will also give their views on these people. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-02-21-185	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the immediate questioning. Now we're gonna ask the questions. Dear Parliament, Ádám Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: - Will you agree to the promised development of Marcali Hospital until 3 April and is now decided? Yes or no? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-02-21-186	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, As the voice of the proud citizens of Somogy, I have spoken in Parliament 116 times in the case of the hospital in Marcal, this is now the 117th time. In order to develop our beloved hospital, we also started collecting signatures, which more than 4,000 people have already signed: young people, women, men, Fidesz voters and non-Fidesz voters alike. Our health is not a party political issue. And perhaps thanks to this, the 1546/2021 was finally born in August. Government decision that billions of HUF will be spent on procurement of assets and the development of the institution. You finally realized that you made a big mistake, that integration with Kaposvár failed. Dear Secretary of State, On 1 January, the director of the partially independent hospital in Marcal was directed to you because he cannot answer any questions about the institution on his own. With respect to this, I ask you to answer the questions of Somogyi with respect. As an independent budgetary institution, how many forints is the budget of the Marcal hospital this year? Jute of this amount about HUF 95 million for the CT acquisition promised by Attila Móring József eight years ago? Jute of this sum for the re-opening of your obstetrics gynecology and pediatrics class? Will the waiting lists decrease? And will you begin with the hospital's promised and now decided developments until April 3rd? Secretary of State, yes or no? Or is this just another failed election promise like building a hospital helicopter landing track? Let's wait for an honorary answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-02-21-187	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2022-02-21-188	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, First of all, I would like to assure you that a country was sympathetic to you when, in your presence, your own candidate for Prime Minister said that, in their own parties, communists and fascists are represented separately in our alliance. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] I think a lot of people felt sorry for you in this situation. But not only do you say that on the left, but you also say that 45 percent of hospitals will be closed. Are you, as a representative in a left-wing alliance, shutting down the hospital in Marcal? Yes or no? They're closing 45 percent. Is the Marcali among them? Imre László made that clear. Then they said they'd be calmer if the health business wasn't. If you didn't shut down the hospital, would you privatize the marcal hospital from the left? [[Dr. Adam Steinmetz: No.]] It should also be accepted that there should be no emergency or obstetric care in rural cities. After discussing who was a fascist and who was a communist on the left, they also discussed in which settlements the emergency and obstetric care will be closed? Because you say how important these benefits are, and then your candidate for prime minister, who will be number one on the list of you, all of you, that there is no need in small towns and villages, and there is certainly no emergency or obstetric care. These questions should be decided by yes or no among themselves. But since we saw what the left did when he was steering, he actually closed them and privatized them, so we know what the answer is. Thank you very much for your words of appreciation for the HUF 2.6 billion development. Thank you for your compliments on the work of Attila Móring József, for making the hospital in Marcalan independent. Thank you very much for your support for this, and here we have a very nice cooperation on a local matter, represented by Mr József Móring here, and you have also represented it. From this development, the equipment park for professional services, mobile diagnostics and IT development are being renewed, and public procurement is already under way, as in the previous period, since 2012 [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] 677 million HUF of development has been completed. This can now be increased to a very large extent. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-02-21-189	Thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, would you like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question:, Is only eight thousand people really affected by the compensation for the disabled? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2022-02-21-190	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr President, Fellow Members! You know that there are only a few more days left for the disabled to ask for the $500,000 alms that the government has offered them as a price of pain; I have put this in quotes, of course. In short, in 2018, the Constitutional Court took a decision stating the following in relation to the disability pension, which was more precisely abolished in 2012. I am opening a parentheses, and I note that the only European country I know is Hungary, where there is no invalidity or accident disability pension; parentheses are closed. The Constitutional Court found that the previous amount of care was not taken into account for the persons concerned, that the length of the service period had not been taken into account, and that their income at the time determining the rate of contribution had not been taken into account and that the rate of recovery had not been taken into account. For the record, no one has defined what this improvement means since then. I would also like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that the answer to a written question shows that roughly 8,000 people are involved in this. For the record, at the time of this transformation, only the III. There were 196 thousand disabled in groups. Interesting now, this nearly 8,000 people. As I recall, and in recent years, I have experienced this, say, in the South-Heves region, that hundreds of people have been affected by the loss or reduction of their care, even though, let's say, their condition has not improved or even deteriorated for many of them. What's the truth? Is 8,000 people really involved in this issue? What happened to the others, Mr. Secretary? How many asked for the HUF 500,000 allowance, and what about those who refuse to accept it? Thank you very much.
u2022-02-21-191	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2022-02-21-192	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You have spoken of people with disabilities, honourable Member, but I would ask that if you really care about the fate of these people, then when your own candidate for Prime Minister uses this word as a pejorative sign, which is not what a good person does, and so you judge people, you should speak up even when our candidate for Prime Minister uses that word the way people who are sympathetic rarely use it. What we see is that he already thinks parents are insane, who fear their children for gender propaganda and our elderly compatriots when they die in the coronal virus epidemic, as if it could be a positive thing in any way. If you do not speak out for those people, at least speak up for people with disabilities, and not only for their financial benefits, but also for the way your own candidate for Prime Minister talks about them. [[17 .30]] Honourable Congressman, You yourself said in Parliament a few years ago that in the years after the change of regime, a large number of people got involved in disability pensions, but in the long term, there can be no perspective for a society on [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] that if there are fluctuations in the labour market or because its health has decreased somewhat, the only escape route is to go to the disability pension. I would like to commend you to your own words, perhaps somewhat contradicting your words today. What is the reason for the number difference, honourable Member? If you read the decision of the Constitutional Court, you can see that the decision does not concern everyone you have said, for whom invalidity benefits have been established, and that the amount of that decision has been reduced. That's why the target group is smaller than you think, so it's only about 8,000 people and not a hundred grand in scale than what you said. You know that there was a notice notice here, and also a direct request, the statement on the Treasurer's website to establish the contract notice and compensation can continue to be found, so everyone who thinks they are involved in this can and can submit it to the rehabilitation authority responsible for their place of residence in the previous months. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-02-21-193	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Varga, a representative of DK, would like to ask the Minister of Finance: "Is it really that helpless against inflation and food price? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2022-02-21-194	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, It's gonna be math, and you're not gonna like it, you're not gonna understand it, or you're not gonna want to understand it. Let me start right away with a devastating figure: in January this year, prices in stores increased by 7.9 percent; you know, this is another inflation record, and the last time we saw it was during the global economic crisis. This is a clear example of the fact that you have lost control of economic processes and, above all, of prices. You probably didn't notice the alarming rate of food prices, because the Fidesz luxury elite, which eats truffles, foie gras, salmon, caviar, oysters and lobster for breakfast, wouldn't hit the ground either, we know very well if inflation was above 500 percent. The problem, Mr. Secretary of State, is that the reality of the privileged few has completely been cut off from the everyday life of the fair majority, because it does matter to us, to them, that compared to this time last year, margarine is by 21 percent, dairy products by 17 percent, cheese by 16 percent and pastry by 15 percent, but at least such a great increase is expected on the fruit and vegetables front. Consider the large price of tomatoes, which has increased by one and a half times in one year, but cucumber is now 26 percent more expensive. And I'll give you a piece of data that you'll understand: it costs 24 percent more potatoes than it did last year. I would like to remind you that none of these products were covered by their campaign action, you know, the so-called price stop, which is about noticing until the election at least that you have lost control of food prices. There is nothing more talkable than that their pretend action was only valid from the moment of birth until the election and only for a few products, since if the elite can keep their power on 3 April, it will not be interesting again for four years how the majority lives. I know that the Hungarian reality of our world, the fair majority, is very far from yours, the luxurious world of helicopters and yachts, yet I have to ask: are they really that helpless in terms of inflation and food price increases? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2022-02-21-195	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Minister András Tállai.
u2022-02-21-196	Dear Parliament, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. inflation alone is not a problem, we know that very well. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Zoltán Varga intervenes.]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This also moves the economy at a given moment. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Zoltán Varga: I told you he wouldn't understand!]] Do you know who said that?
u2022-02-21-197	Congressman! It's not a conversation.
u2022-02-21-198	Do you know or don't know who said that? [[Zoltán Varga intervenes.]] Then I'll tell you, you said it on a commercial channel. Now, if you know that inflation alone is okay, then you should also know what steps the government has taken to make families, people, feel less about it. You heard about the gas stop? They envy the surrounding countries. [[Zoltán Varga: Ask the wells.]] You heard about the food stop? Do you know what they're doing to the food stop? They're laughing at me. A few million people get six or eight types of products cheaper. Did you hear about the interest rate stop that anyone with a loan doesn't have to pay a higher interest rate? Have you heard about the reduction of the rent, that the minimum cost of energy is in Hungary? What are you talking about? ! Have you heard that two and a half million people received HUF 3271 billion as a 13th month pension? Have you heard that 1 million 400 thousand people have now received 610 billion back as tax refunds? And you've heard that 86,000 people have received 276 billion as weapons money? Have you heard that 40,000 young people are affected by the fact that reducing people under the age of 25 means 140 billion per year? That's 1500 billion forints in lower voice plus February only to say that the government didn't do anything? ! If you know that inflation alone is okay, then you also know that the way to beat inflation is to have more money, to have more income, to be able to pay the price increase, unfortunately, is because we don't want it. By the way, in terms of regional inflation, Hungary is in a better position than the neighbouring countries, and no such measures have been taken there, I ask you to note this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-02-21-199	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. By changing the model of higher education, we have to understand outsourcing, loss of autonomy, corruption, small kings and blackmail? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2022-02-21-200	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. The question could be answered quickly: yes, that is what it meant for the government. We can tell you that higher education is in crisis because of Viktor Orbán's government. Dear Secretary of State, As one of the meanest government measures in the past period, you have outsourced and put the entire Hungarian higher education under political control on the basis of lies, only five state universities remain, and there are no state-reserved universities left in the countryside. In addition, you have concluded contracts for the provision of tasks by which the most important decision-making powers of the university senates have been removed, and these decisions concerning the future of universities have been taken into the hands of foundations led by Fidesz party soldiers. The development resources coming from the taxes of Hungarian citizens are also being allocated not directly to universities, but to foundations led by Fideszes. In practice, you have proved that what you have said here in the last few months in the course of many debates has proved to be a lie, and you have virtually destroyed the autonomy of the university. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's not true!]] It was an open blackmail process. At the meeting of the committee, one of the pro-government representatives said that anyone who misses a model change would miss development resources. You have proven this, as we are witnessing a blackmail: Minister Palkovic has also blackmailed the Budapest University of Technology and Economics, according to the leaked news, and we can see that the university receives an unrealisticly small amount of money, only HUF 2.7 billion from the state. My questions to the Secretary of State about why the university senates didn't get the required rights, the required decision-making rights. Why don't universities get the funds directly? Why is Budapest University of Technology and Economics receiving so little funding? And is it true that, with such harsh means, they are trying to hide in the background that Minister Palkovic has put the Budapest University of Technology under political pressure? [[Nacsa Lawrence: They're not true!]] Before you answer, I can tell you, Mr Secretary of State, that, after the change of government, we will restore university autonomy. Thank you for your attention.
u2022-02-21-201	I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás János Schanda, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2022-02-21-202	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It is wonderful that the left is criticizing the strengthening and more competitiveization of universities, which did nothing when he was in government, for Hungarian higher education, and even if it were up to you, then today all Hungarian young people should pay for his studies, and that is what you are planning to do, and what they even said to Hungarian young people when they were in government in Hungary, that they could leave. That's what they've been down to, Mr. Congressman. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] Of course, we're not surprised at that, because you're actually disdaining those who've been trained with years of hard work. The Socialist Bangoné also lied about her diploma [[Zoltán Varga: Lajos Kósa!]] But in the fake tournament, Miklós Hajnal Momentum was also on the move, who still doesn't understand why it's wrong to boast about something he didn't work for. In his case, there is no consequence of referring to himself as an economist, even though such a degree is not known. Honourable Congressman, And you have now entered the same left-wing Fake News factory, as you know perfectly well that the Senate of universities could decide on the institutional change of model. 87 percent of the Senate members of the institutions asking for a change of model supported the transformation of their universities, and the University did not take such an initiative. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[17.40]]
u2022-02-21-203	Thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question:, has he launched an internal investigation into the Volner-Schadl case in the relevant ministries? It's an address. By answering this question, the Prime Minister has appointed Minister for Justice Judit Varga, who is competent and competent on the subject. At the request of Minister Répássy Róbert, the Secretary of State will answer the question. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-02-21-204	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The biggest corruption scandal in the last 12 years raises a number of questions [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The case of subway four?]] e.g. the level of involvement of ministries in this. For example, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs gave a diplomatic passport to György Schadl, which, according to the D.A.'s office, was completely unjustified. Question is, we've started an investigation into who else received an unwarranted diplomatic passport. So, according to the wiretap, these are not speculations that the Ministry of Human Resources is involved in the de-greasing of certain friendly requests. In addition, the business of Pál Völner reached the Ministry of Innovation, according to which Attila Steiner was knocked at the State Secretary for a tender. The above tender was also intended to be channeled to Minister János Süli Paks, and there was also a search. There should also be an internal investigation into applications for recent years. And I'm not even talking about the court wallet that led Judit Varga, which is foam on the cake. Dear Secretary of State, At least five of your ten ministries are involved in this case. And maybe now he'll be preparing an answer that the government has nothing to do with it, because the prosecution will reveal everything. But that is a very bad answer, because criminal proceedings can go on for years, and the Secretary of State does not want these cases to remain completely unsolved. Is it? Dear Secretary of State, Has there been an internal investigation into the Völner-Schadl case in the relevant ministries? If so, there is a result, and what is it? If it didn't start, why didn't it? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2022-02-21-205	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Robert Répássy, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2022-02-21-206	Thank you for the floor. Honourable Congressman, You quoted from a public document in criminal proceedings and made statements on this basis. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this prosecution has not yet been completed and that the facts will be established in criminal proceedings. So not just the responsibility, but also the facts, will be found in this prosecution that there has been a real abuse. All I can tell you is that if there's been an abuse, it will, of course, invalidate the cases or decisions in which there's been a crime. I'm sure you know that this has the same effect on an ongoing case. But until these investigations are completed, we can't say that it's an illegal decision on any of the cases. So I'm asking you to respect the fact that the independent prosecutor's office is doing its job, the investigating authority is doing its investigation, and then they're gonna decide to prosecute, and based on the indictment, the court will determine the responsibility. In such a case, the ministries can do one thing because they asked that they conducted an investigation in the ministries, that the ministries cooperate with the investigating authority within the framework of the Criminal Procedure Act, which means that, at the request of the investigating authority, the ministries provide appropriate data and, if any, the investigators draw the appropriate conclusions from it. So there is no investigation that you would like us to be accountable for, or that is not possible, because the prosecution is going to be conducted, and the prosecution will examine the facts, and eventually the court will determine it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-02-21-207	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Sándor Font, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question: - Will the Government continue the Hungarian Village Program, which has proved to be extremely successful so far? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-02-21-208	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, CHAPTER XXI Perhaps the biggest task of the 20th century is to develop rural areas and improve the quality of life of people living there, to create attractive and locally accessible jobs for young people, as well as to provide infrastructure and services. For this reason, the government has placed particular emphasis on the development of the Hungarian countryside in recent years. One of the most outstanding tender options is the Hungarian village programme, which was launched in 2019. The Hungarian village program has been one of the biggest proofs of the government's commitment to the development of the Hungarian countryside for many years, as there has been improvements in the small settlements of the region, which are the 21st. They provide living conditions that meet the requirements of the 20th century. Of the 29 settlements in my district, 25 settlements are below five thousand people, which are thus entitled to participate in the announcements of the Hungarian village, and I am pleased to note that all 25 settlements have been able to implement their development ideas, which could thus be realized in an extremely wide area. Thanks to the complex programme, a drastic increase in the quality of basic services has stopped not only the reduction of the population, but also the growth of the population in many places. Our aim is to make our communities young and to make sure that we are able to provide the right environment and opportunities for people living in the region. Every development, every new idea, every awarded application helps to make the region more beautiful, better and liveable for every generation. Dear Secretary of State, In relation to what has been said, I ask that the government continue the program of the Hungarian village, which has proved to be extremely successful so far. I ask this in the light of the fact that I made the last speech of our four-year parliamentary term, which is now ending, in the interest of the settlements, but I will not hide it, I will not sell a bag cat, I am preparing to continue with the government. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-02-21-209	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State, Miklós Soltés. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2022-02-21-210	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I share your optimism, just because one of the opposition's leading politicians, Péter Márki-Zay, is primarily Ferenc Gyurcsány's man, and second of all, the Prime Minister's candidate talks about simple people in rural areas in the following way: he says ignorant people, he calls them stupid people, he calls them rude rurals; he says that if in a rural town Fidesz gathers his best men, they would probably not be able to decipher a crossword puzzle. And there is a long list of the terrible many expressions that he has done to people living in the countryside in recent weeks, months, and years. And not only do we reject this humiliating behavior and the demeaning behavior of rural people, but we have started rather the opposite for years. By the way, this has been demonstrated by how many country representatives we have here in Parliament. Our representatives don't go there, they know the problems of the people there. The result is the many decisions that have been made over the past few years. Since 2019, nearly a thousand billion HUF has been received for various grants in the framework of the Hungarian village programme. And this stopped migration in many places, stopped population loss in many places, and even reversed it; equipment, subsidies, investments in rural settlements that were unimaginable until then. In your constituency, only quickly listed: 20 sites of playground development, 28 roads development, 17 sites of cemetery infrastructure development, 20 locations of medical and protective equipment development, at least 5 medical offices were renewed, 5 new village care buses, 5 service apartments were built, more than 20 communities received community space development. It is also difficult to list all that has been achieved only in your constituency for 2.5 billion forints. It is perfectly natural that we will continue after 3 April with the program of the Hungarian village. Thank you very much for asking. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-02-21-211	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Tibor Bana, an independent Member, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources: . Why did they destroy the hospital in Körmend? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2022-02-21-212	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In 2012, Fidesz abolished obstetric gynecology and active internal medicine in Körmenden. They did so despite the fact that in a very short period of time nearly 5,000 people signed our signatures against this. [[17.50]] The fate of the hospital in Körmend, where I was born, has always been a matter of heart. There are more and more sources to hear outrageous and disappointing news about the institution. They're all about evacuating the O.R., taking medical instruments, surgical devices, machines from the wards. Workers and residents in the region are not informed about what will happen to the hospital, but there is every indication that there is a well - founded concern. I have stood up for the institution and its employees on several occasions because it plays an important role in health care. We can't let it get locked up or in private hands. Uncertainty about the hospital is outrageous. The people here deserve to be restored, and the hospital works properly. Fidesz constantly attacks Péter Márki-Zay, the opposition Prime Minister's candidate for health, while you were the ones who led Hungarian patients to the private sector by disrupting healthcare. In Vas County, too, more and more people have to reach into their pockets when they choose the private road, because the benefits in public health have become unavailable. For me, representation of the people in the area is my priority. If the citizens of the constituency of Körmend-Szentgotthárd honor me with their trust and I can serve them as individual representatives after 3 April, I will do everything I can to save the hospital in Körmend. Dear Secretary of State, Why did they destroy the hospital in Körmend, and what can you expect from the people in the region? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea applauds.]]
u2022-02-21-213	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2022-02-21-214	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You have undertaken a difficult task if you want to explain the words of the Left Prime Minister's candidate, as he said that the hospital daily allowance and the visit fee have been taboo since the referendum, as well as marketisation, and that is a big mistake. He also said that where paying health care was introduced, it worked well, and that it would work in Hungary. [[Tibor Bana keeps interrupting.]] That's what needs to be protected by what good it is to have to pay for entering the hospital. Then explain to the people there why it is good for them to have emergency, obstetrical care and say that you should not be in rural cities, and that you should not be anywhere near people living in villages. [[Tibor Bana and Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervene.]] How can you say the same and the opposite, honourable Member? He clearly said: "You don't need a doctor for childbirth. Let's have an obstetric ward in the hospital where there's no doctor. I'm more relaxed when it comes to health care business. What's left of the hospital would be privatized. How can you explain all this, Your Honour? Or what Imre László said, your health politician who said 45 percent of hospitals should be closed. How do you explain that, Your Honour? Hospital closure, the privatization of the rest, the closure of classes in the non-privatised, honourable Member, and besides paying health care is a difficult task. What did we do? We gave a billion forints to open up a noticeable development in the hospital, 24-hour emergency care, chronic medical ward, reconstruction of the surgical department, remodeling of the O.R. and remodeling of the O.R. level, the development of a one-day surgical operating room; the acquisition of modern machines, modern instruments, the provision of diagnostic, therapeutic and surgical backgrounds, the digitisation of X-rays, the acquisition of new ultrasounds, and the development of active surgery and everything else. This is a real development, what you represent, and that's retrogression. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2022-02-21-215	Thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. We will now continue our work with speeches after the agenda. After the agenda, Mr Mihály Varga, Minister of Finance, Fidesz Group, has applied for a post- Agenda address: Buda must also go forward, not back. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Minister.
u2022-02-21-216	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, First of all, at the end of another term of my work, I would like to thank Mr. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. The trust they gave me to the citizens of the district. I have always been proud to represent the citizens of Buda here in Parliament. The results of our joint work are renewed community spaces, kindergartens, schools, religious and cultural buildings. Eight years together, a lot of work together, meeting and celebrating. As a Member of Parliament, I could only meet the citizens of Buda during this time, cultural, religious, sporting events, the transfer of developments, various concerts, kindergartens, schools and important events at the University of Óbuda. This was a unique opportunity to talk about the most important issues affecting the districts. Annex II is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. I also confess as a parliamentary representative of the district, that the results of government work must appear in people's daily lives, in easier living, in safety and in the development of our narrower living environment. Our results clearly show that we are working for these goals. After a deep crisis, the economy restarted at record speed and achieved higher performances than ever before last year. This gave us the opportunity to strengthen Hungarian families after the crisis, starting with young people and raising children to older people. The success of the government's policy, of which only part is the good performance of the economy, is reflected in the development of all Hungarian settlements. Since the beginning of my work as a representative, more than 160 billion HUF worth of investment has been made and is ongoing in the 4th constituency of Budapest. These include school, kindergarten, health development, community spaces, parks, sports, leisure development and transport development. The nearly 50 projects that have been implemented have been launched during this time. For example, the Millenáris Windgate investment, where the depressing building of the former Ministry of Industry is located today is a nice public park. The renovation of the Klebelsberg Castle, the reconstruction of Gül Baba's turbe and its surroundings, the renovation of the Óbuda University's Kandó College, the construction of the new building of the Children's House School and High School, the construction of the Óbuda Meszkő Park, the development of the Csillaghegy Beach or the reconstruction of the Békásmegyer Market Hall and Heltai Jenő tér was an important development. It's a pleasure to have you on II. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. There are a lot of children in the district, so we took special care of kindergartens, schools, parks. Over the past eight years, more than ten kindergartens and schools have been renovated or started. There is also a source of transport development, but for the renewal of a number of community spaces and for the development of institutions for the life of faith or for sports development. One by one, these were intended to bring a positive change in the daily lives of those living here. Dear Parliament, I was talking about the results of the joint work, but it is regrettable that, on the left, gender was the main majority on the basis of the process of recent years; it was not tax cuts, it was not the system of family subsidies, it was not the reduction of wages, it was not the support of investments, it was not the protection of the border, and of course, in quotes, it was not the interest and price stop. It is quite difficult to tell whether the left has a programme, or whether they think that there is a problem with concrete promises. The previous municipal elections did not lack many-page programmes. It is a regrettable fact that not a fraction of these have been achieved so far, and in my constituency there has been nothing from the complete renovation of the Margaret Boulevard buildings, the announced rental program or the promised further developments. Ladies and gentlemen, A good choice of as many facts as possible and, of course, the candidates can be known. That is why I considered it important to mention the facts that do not receive sufficient emphasis in the noise generated by the left. I trust that voters will decide on performance, on the basis of results, on their responsibility for the future of their children in Buda, Obuda and the rest of the country. Thank you for your attention.
u2022-02-21-217	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP Bence Tuzson, Fidesz Group, State Secretary: . The country's largest high school investment to date starts with the title Dunakeszin. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2022-02-21-218	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would really like to talk about a very serious investment, but before I talk about it, allow me to share some ideas about the constituency. [[18.00]] We have talked about it many times now that it is indeed the region of Dunakeszi, Fot, God, Csomad, Csömör, Erdőkertes and Veresegyház, which is one of the fastest developing regions of the country. This is not only due to its agglomeration, not only because the population has grown in recent times, but indeed there are people here, traditionally people who like to create, join together and do something together. And, you know, it's just that if someone moves into this area, after a while, they take over this mentality, the mentality of unity, the mentality of power, and together, if we act, then serious things can be created. And, yes, there have been major road improvements in this area, the road connecting M2 to Route 2, for example, there have been a lot of school projects, there are 15 school projects that have been completed in the past period, and eight are still in progress, and sports investments have also been made. And since our last meeting, a number of decisions have been made regarding school development, such as the Christian school in Fót's support for planning the new building of that school. But there is also significant progress in the area of transport development, there is an old desire for Csömöri to create a new node at the intersection of Laki út, and there is a need for roundabout traffic, and now the municipality has 190 million HUF support, so this investment can also be implemented. It is very important that we have always considered supporting investments that satisfy people's needs and that strengthen quality of life in the region. And this is how an investment will take place, which is indeed Hungary's largest high school investment so far. A new campus, a student quarter, will be realized, which will consist of two schools: a high school, a high school that will have two classroom classes, and a vocational high school will also be implemented, which, in addition to giving high school education, will be able to meet the needs of the surrounding companies, businesses, and professional training. It will be a school that is very rarely seen in Hungary and may serve as a model, since the cooperation of the two schools and the related institutional system will be a very serious institutional system. There will be two sports halls, two very serious sports halls, sports courts with separate runways, the two buildings will be connected by a large dining room, which will be suitable for almost a conference centre, 450 people, and the specialty of this institution will be that there will be a performer in it, so it will be a performer who will be able to receive 120 people. And in addition, there will be a serious swimming pool in the city, a 33-meter swimming pool that may be suitable for international water polo matches, so it will also be in line with international standards. It will be 25 meters wide, so it will be as big in size as it will be for water polo matches, so we can use it in international matches, and all its equipment will be so that it meets all international standards. (The chair is Dr. István Hiller, Vice-President of the Parliament.) In addition, the location of the school is such that it can serve not only the Dunakeszi, but also the students of the settlements in the area, as this is the country's largest school district, the most students are here, so we need to ensure that everyone can get here. Access from Göd must therefore be ensured, accessibility must be ensured from the direction of Fót, even by bicycle route, so the school's location is such that the school can be reached on the road in a few minutes, but also on a bicycle road. Overall, this investment is an investment that is Hungary's largest high school investment, has not been the same in Hungary, and can serve as an example for the whole country. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-02-21-219	Good evening. Thank you very much. We will continue our work with further speeches after the agenda. Congressman Gergely Kálló, the representative of Jobbik, can speak in five minutes with the title "Our Affairs." Here you go.
u2022-02-21-220	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On the morning of today, I was asked what country we could wake Monday morning, the next morning, Monday morning, after a possible opposition victory on April 3. Before I tell you what I said to the questioner, I would like to introduce a little of my two-year parliamentary work on my proposals for amending the budget. Since I am a Member of Parliament, I have made 86 budget amendments for the settlements of my district: four pieces for Iváncsa, four for Kulcsa, six for Nagyvenyim, four for Rácalmás, 12 for Pusztaszabolcs, 7 for Perkata, 26 for Dunaújváros, 6 for Ercsi, 6 for Adony 6. What did these proposals contain? The development of roads, the renovation of buildings, the renovation of castles, so that we can develop tourism, the demolition of roads that have been waiting for you for a long time. And do you know what, unfortunately, is common in this 86 amendments? That you weren't willing to support any of them. And why not? Because the majority in our district are already under a leadership that is politically unlikable to you. All this has been addressed by the fact that, for the second time, a special economic zone has been created in the country, with which they have been an extra burden for us. Now, here's my answer. On 4 April, after 4 April, we will live in a world where such amendments will be accepted regardless of party standing, if they are in the interest of the residents. You didn't accept us renovating the main road in Rácalmás and tearing down roads. We will accept that if this is the demand of the population. For example, you did not accept that the Szapáry Castle or Springer Castle should be renovated in Pusztaszabolcs or the previous one in Ercsi, thus making the settlements attractive to tourists, or giving it to people to enjoy it as a community house. You have not accepted so many of our sewage development proposals, you have not accepted the need to repair market areas, let us say, in Dunaújváros we will accept that if this is the demand of the population. They'll wake up in the morning to a world like this. We're going to put an end to the mister system, and we're finally going to redistribute the resources on a non-party policy basis. We will not threaten the mayors that they will only receive a TOP application, a program application for the Hungarian village, or anything if they join the governing party. Don't forget one thing, gentlemen. You, when punishing our settlements or punishing Dunaújváros, are not punishing the Member of Parliament, you are not even punishing the Mayor; you are also punishing your voters because the Fidesz suffers from withdrawal. We will surely eliminate this system. And let me have a flash-forward. Many people know that our district is more industrial, plants are located, production is taking place. And speaking of factories, let me remember two things. After April 4th, you can be sure that we do not allow, although we are not anti-developmental and anti-industrial, but we do not allow improvements that greatly affect the life of a settlement, but do not ask the inhabitants of the settlements about them, I think about the SK Innovation factory here. And let me mention another factory, which I have brought up many times in Parliament: ironworks. We will not go to the ironworks every four years and promise help, but we will always work for 4,500 Hungarian workers. In the last two years, I have only spoken for the ironworks 18 times within the walls of Parliament. You didn't do anything to make sure the employees didn't get paid in two instalments. You have done nothing to keep the collective agreement alive. But now, like before every election, you have to parade the vote. You don't have any credit. Thank you for the floor. I'll remain a servant of my district. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and DK.]]
u2022-02-21-221	Thank you very much. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, can speak after the next agenda for how long? It's an address. Here you go. [[18.10]]
u2022-02-21-222	Mr President, Dear House, Those who have followed Parliament's work as a credit-damaged bank victim may have faced the cruelest government in Europe, but this government has been able to move to a new level recently, now they are not even trying to answer the question, but the Bolshevik lie factory has been cooking two or three panels all day. There was one exception today, however, because there is a paratrooper in the government, I mean Secretary of State Répássy, who was here in the post-2010 period, and at that time he was trying to engage in professional debates with opposition representatives. He may not have been told every single answer, except for most of the changes in manners, and he certainly tried to explain the inexplicable. Today we heard from the government again, which irritates us and hundreds of thousands of Hungarians, who helped us after the biggest financial illusion of the century. On the other hand, we see that the whole problem was released from the bottle as a ghost in 2001 under a fidesz government, when the door to opportunities for unilateral treaty amendments was opened up, but we also see that, of course, not missing the extremely bad supervisory, incredibly bad Hungarian national banking and then government practice between 2002-2010, this monster clearly escaped after 2010. This monster was released by over 18,000 evictions during the regency of the Fidesz governments. Between 2006-2020, this disgusting and quota-based looting machine was insanely invigorated, as we can see that 3474 evictions took place in 2016, a year later more than 3600, 3200 and 3100 evictions were made in 2018 and 2019, which actually took place on quotas and could take place, as the government agreed with the executives and their teams to put how many people on the streets from their own home during a period of time, without any accommodation. In the meantime, we see that the government has also made a pact with the EBRD, otherwise it has also agreed with the Banking Association, and on these papers it has typically undertaken not to sacrifice a single forint to settle the situation of the victims and does not prejudice the banking interests involved. State Secretary Répássy was very proud to say today that they converted foreign exchange loans at the market rate of HUF 256 at that time, and how good that was in his view, because today the exchange rate of the forint has been reduced to HUF 340. And we say that already in 2012, the government had on the table a proposal for HUFing the rate of credit at the time of admission, in Hungarian, that if someone took up their so-called loan at 160 HUF, they should not use the market rate, but forint it at the admission korin. The fact is that not only did we right-handers say this at the time, not only did civilians say this, but there was a subcommittee of the Committee on Justice and Constitutional Affairs dealing with foreign exchange debt with Fidesz leadership and Fidesz prominents, and in this report, virtually fidesz people called on the Fidesz government to examine the possibilities of this. The investigation would not have been so complicated, as the Hungarian National Bank even removed the burden of the calculations from the government, so it was perfectly possible to see how much this solution would cost, or even in the dimension expanded by the end repayment, the possibility of converting these so-called loans at a reduced rate at least for the most fortunate. That didn't happen either. The collapse came, the evictions came, the people on the street on the quota came, and a pact came from a banking government that clearly papered that it didn't want to stand up for the people, the victims. In the meantime, we are beginning to understand why, because it turns out that a government secretary of state has supposedly set up a vicious criminal organization with executors who have pulled millions off families that are about to be evicted. It is very difficult to imagine a more stomach-stricken act, and we cannot now quote similar things from the European political history. We see that while in other countries, in all other European countries, this would have resulted in a clear resignation and the resignation of the Minister of Justice, in Hungary the Bolshevik lie factory is trying to translate and explain this. Therefore, I ask all responsible patriots not to believe the lie factory of the Fidesz Bolsheviks, not to believe siren voices, only in the Unity for Hungary and in the opposition unit can replace this abomination and finally bring justice to all bank and credit-damaged people in Hungary. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2022-02-21-223	Thank you very much. Congressman Balázs Ander, the representative of Jobbik, will be following:, Prosperity and freedom for South Somogy! It's an address. Here you go.
u2022-02-21-224	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, That's enough! Enough of the reign of the Nerseviks who are growing old from a young Democrat! Enough of the fact that before the change of regime, a more normal party secretary from what they're doing there would have been ashamed of himself, and the skin would have come off his face! We've had enough of what we've heard today, of being fascists and communists, while, by the way, they themselves are carrying out the cancerist doctrine that, indeed, those who aren't with them are against them, and are inciting this civil war mood, they've taken over this civil war obsession. That is enough, ladies and gentlemen, in South Somogy, that they are only inciting you to steal more, only to lie and heat hatred so that they can cover their thieving. It was enough for many people in South Somogy, too, that while their beneficiary agricultural barons may receive some HUF 15 billion of state aid during the NER period, our Árpád-era villages are raging. So, while the gold rain, while the public money billions get to the good friends of NER, the servants will continue to be Hungarian for the past 12 years. That is enough, ladies and gentlemen, for the holders of power to feel that they cannot be called to account. They have forgotten that they are servants, not masters of this nation. I've had enough of the fact that people have elected them as MPs, not governors. Ladies and gentlemen, Four years ago, I was talking about a lynological curiosity, the fish with the scruffy lips. It must be recalled: what are these animals? They farm around the back of the hippopotamus, around the back of the hippopotamus in the water, and consume their feces. If we imagine NER as such an all-eating hippo, eating hundreds and thousands of billions, then these rural NER kings, NER-sames, these scruffy-mouthed fish, it is true that they are no longer billions, only a few tens and hundreds of millions of people will drop out of the public money that would otherwise belong to the Hungarian people living in the rural districts, but they will also steal them. My fellow Members, we have heard the sound of trenches being buried, the walls being demolished among themselves, and peace be given to all honest people who love their country, regardless of party positions. That's why the union was born in South Somogy. I am honoured by the trust that manifests itself from the party-independent, left-wing or even disillusioned people from Fidesz. I can promise them what István Nagyatádi Szabó did for example, the bootsman, the first representative of the National Assembly of peasant origin, who said: I have stood up twice from the Velvet chair and went home to pick up, and if I am not needed, I will do it for the third time. On April 3rd, the people of South Somogy will decide that they need their representation here in the church of the nation. What I can promise you is that without compromise, I will represent the interests of South Somogy, that this wiped-off area will be put back there, on the pedestal that is otherwise due. Fellow Members! Dear Southern Somogy Citizens! Enough with the hopelessness! Enough with the disenfranchisement! Enough of NER rule in South Somogy! Justice and prosperity for South Somogy! Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2022-02-21-225	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andra, an independent Member, who is speaking after the next agenda, is entitled to the same rights as others, as an independent nationality. Here you go. [[18.20]]
u2022-02-21-226	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Today is the World Day of Mother tongue, and interestingly, no one in the great national pro-government community has thought of it today. While governments and international organisations respect their own language, their ethnic identity, they recognize it as a nationality, in Hungary, despite the fact that many people's mother tongues are bunyevacs, they preserve their culture and national identity, the Hungarian government refuses to initiate the recognition of Bunyevács as nationalities at the National Assembly. The Bunyevacs are originally the southern Slavic people of the Balkans, which later found their new homeland in the Baja-Szabadka-Zombor triangle in North Bácska. The Bácsá Bunyevacs have preserved their mother tongue for centuries, created its literary version, became national. During the census, bunyevac, the Monarchy, the two world wars, and even the popular democracy, created an independent category for both nationality and mother tongue. It was also a recognized language in Hungary, it was re-stenderd in Serbia about three years ago, and Szabadkán is an official language again, which was voted there by Hungarian representatives. According to the current order in Hungary, who claims to be a bunyevac at the census, it is automatically entered into the Croatian population in a way that does not belong to Croatian nationality in any sense. Hungary signed the Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities, adopted by the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers in 1995. The most democratic way in which our country deals with nationalities is formally, but if small-scale political games so wish, it cannot be a nationality without any real nationality, but it is divided into another without any basis. Regular monitoring of compliance with the framework agreement is carried out by an independent body, the Advisory Committee, whose members wrote in their fourth opinion on Hungary in 2016: those who claimed to be bunyevac did so rightly, the possibility was still to name any nationality, but it should be noted that those who claimed to be bunyevac added to Croatians. According to the Advisory Committee, this procedure is not compatible with the right to choose a free identity for the processing of data collected in the census, as provided for in Article 3 of the Framework Convention. Refusal of the fundamental minority rights of the Hungarian Bunyevács is also a clear violation of other points of the contract. They cannot teach their mother tongue, deny them the conditions necessary to cultivate their ethnic culture, and they are forced to be absorbed into Croatia; so that they are regularly stolen from them, the Croatians and certain local governments take on their own events, not only do they not recognize their own nationality, but they are still humiliated. The members of the Advisory Committee of the Council of Europe last visited Hungary in December 2019, when the fifth report was drawn up, and they continued to challenge the classification of Bunyevács as Croatians, even in point 54, saying that they strongly call on the authorities to respect the right to choose the free identity of certain persons who joined the Bunyevác community alone and not to associate them with another group with which they refuse to identify themselves of their own free will. In addition to this framework agreement, the rights of the Bunyevács are guaranteed by the Constitution and would, of course, also comply with the minority law. Since the Hungarian state has concluded an agreement with Croatia to classify itself as a croatian in the census as bunedovács, soccer or Bosnians, it is unconstitutional, therefore contrary to international treaties, it is null and void. In Hungary, too, in settlements where there was no evidence of the nationality, some people can establish a minority self-government within the framework of ethnobiznis even if they do not speak the language of the minority and cultivate its traditions. On the other hand, in settlements where Bunyevács have lived and lived for centuries in hundreds or thousands of numbers today, they cannot teach their dances, songs, languages, for example, books and newspapers in Bunyevac can not be found in the Baja City Library. There's going to be a census soon. The census sets out how national minorities can represent themselves in our country in the next period. There will be no point in keeping the census and asking about nationalities if the Bunyevac nationalism continues to claim it in vain, they will merge it into Croatian. I ask both the Members of Parliament and the Government to stop the humiliation of this national minority, to stop their violations, and in the event that the Hungarian Government does not change that, I will ask myself that the multitude of people do not participate in the census, he boycotts it, because if they are based on a lie, it makes no sense. Thank you very much.
u2022-02-21-227	Thank you very much. Congressman Ádám Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik, notary of the National Assembly, is this: What happens after April 3rd? It's an address. Here you go.
u2022-02-21-228	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, With one sentence, it'll be better. It will be better after 3 April, as Hungary is one of the poorest regions of the European Union, so my narrower country, Somogya. Hungarian salaries and pensions are far below the EU average, while Somogy wages and pensions are below the Hungarian average. After 12 years of Fidesz government, there are still a lot of poor people, for whom payment of yellow checks at the end of the month is a serious problem. What does the united government-shifting opposition offer them? By doubling the family allowance, by a marked increase in public wages, by increasing minimum pensions and reducing the minimum wage tax, we will help our poorest, most difficult countrymen to thrive. The new government will increase wages until teachers, police officers, health professionals and social workers are stopped. Yes, Marcali's area is also particularly affected by emigration. Believe it or not, every third citizen of Somogy earns his living abroad or in another part of the country, and parents and grandparents can usually only talk to their children and grandchildren on Skype. The new government will also have a priority objective to increase the life expectancy of Hungarians by improving health care, in order to reduce the otherwise astonishingly long waiting lists. Please don't sit up for Fidesz propaganda. We will not close the hospital in Marcal, contrary to the statement made by Secretary of State Rétvári, but on the contrary, when we hear the request of the people of Somogy, we will improve it. I would like to tell you that only the Fidesz has closed classes in the Marcal hospital in recent years. I'm going to go on. We're going to stop over-centralizing education. The institutions will be returned to the municipalities on demand. We provide teachers with freedom of teaching, we make the curriculum digital, and most importantly, we will give them competitive knowledge, reducing the burden on students, which will be able to earn decent wages with knowledge, becoming an adult. What has long been in the hands of the people here in Hungary: we are eliminating corruption, brazen theft, we are joining the European Public Prosecutor's Office. We're setting up an anti-corruption prosecutor's office so that politicians' families don't profit from the money we're getting from the Union to raise millions. The new government will protect Hungary from illegal migration by restoring the independence of the border guard. But we're also going to scan the tens of thousands of rich migrants that Fidesz let into the country with a big profit. We are taking action against all kinds of discrimination, because of its origin, world view, or even its insanity, no one will be at a disadvantage, and there will be no compulsory vaccination. We will immediately stop the pointless prestige investments, such as the construction of the MotoGP Hajdúnánási track. Instead of the unsustainable, empty stadiums, we'll be building gymnasiums. We will make sport funding transparent and performance-based, and we will not support the sport of foreigners from the Hungarian tax. We will start preparing for the introduction of the euro, and in the meantime we will fight inflation with a strong forint. We are reducing VAT to 5% on basic food and 27 percent on Europe's record. The Fidesz media authority will be eliminated, the propaganda and lies companies supported by state money will be eliminated. We will give a new constitution to the nation, which will be adopted by voters in a referendum. We are eliminating the suffocating atmosphere in Hungary, which we have been talking about and experiencing for years. [[18.30]] We provide legal certainty and a predictable environment for everyone so that we can move forward, not on the basis of unconventional loyalty to Fidesz, but on the basis of knowledge and diligence. After 3 April, we wish to do so and we offer this to the Hungarian nation. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-02-21-229	Thank you very much. Mr János Bencsik is next, he is an independent Member and he can give his opinion on the subject of civil Hungary. Here you go.
u2022-02-21-230	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Congressman Fidesz Ladies and Gentlemen who are now represented in a small number! I'm telling you, Hungary goes forward, not back, you replaced Széchenyi with Kádár. I really didn't expect much from you in this campaign, but the fact that you've managed to combine pro-state propaganda with the atmosphere of pub entertainers is that I really think it's a political history curiosity. Thirty years ago they started with Roxette's hit hit, 2002 Kossuth's space was still marked by the songs of the Kormoran, and now we have come to this nurturing reminiscent of his sturdy mood. This has become the promise of civil Hungary. Congratulations. You should be proud of this quality change. The opposition parties, the six-party opposition, would have had the opportunity to offer a more attractive alternative. At the end of last year, Péter Márki-Zay set up as his greatest hope. The head scratch in NER's witch's kitchen has begun how a seven - childed family father will be killed, with no corruption scandal attached to him. Then it turns out that there's no need for a character-killing campaign, and that's what the Prime Minister himself is doing. Since then, we have been watching any live videos of Márki-Zay Péter, making statements that are more absurd than they are. With this virtually all the Fidesz propagandaists have to do is watch and post these videos, with not a small amount of public-funded Facebook ads, so let's add this. But do you know what the saddest part of this is? The fact that we flew back about a decade and a half in time. In political terms, the country today is the influence zone of Viktor Orbán and Ferenc Gyurcsány, as it was in 2006. We threw 16 years of our lives out of the window, completely unnecessary. More specifically, one thing has changed after all, the quality, and this is not in the right direction. Politics comes with anger, and there has never been a lack of passion in politics, but it is unprecedented that a campaign can be pushed through in such a way as to have any meaningful message, program, or semi-serious promise from any side, it is enough to demonize the other side. Earlier, at least they took the trouble to lie to people. Now I don't have that either. We have no idea, but really, we literally have no idea what he wants to do, what this opposition would do with this country after twelve years of Orbán system, just as we have no idea that if the current set stays, then what and how do they plan to repay the more than a thousand billion HUF loan that was hired to distribute before the elections for the purpose of obtaining votes. Your offer is exhausted in the case of Orbán or lost Gyurcsány. That's their offer to the people, and that's how they got it. The voters are used to it, because you have made them accustomed to the fact that politicians should not believe, especially before the elections, because they promise grass and wood. Believe me, most people know that and priced it. But what people would expect is that if they're already lying to them about more money and everyone's going to live better, then at least they'll tell us how they imagine it, that they're at least making sure they have a plan. Not to make them believe that, but to at least preserve the rest of their dignity, I'm talking about their own voters. This is what this election takes away from people, their remaining dignity, so that at least every four years politics takes them so seriously that they put an offer on their table and lie to them about how their lives will be better. Do you know what's going on instead? I'll tell you what: there's a bar table slamming, there's bazaar yelling, mouth-smelling conspiracy theories and a crooked lynch vibe. This is your result. At the dawn of the regime change, crowds in this country went to vote in the hope that they sincerely believed that those who were honored with their trust would benefit them. Obviously, this illusion has since vanished, and people have been voting for a very long time because they are not looking for the good, but for the lesser evil. But now this choice will be the first in Hungary, when people no longer believe that they can hope for something from the lesser evil, simply want to punish the side they hate or disgust. 2022 will be the year of vote without expectations, out of anger, and for this terrible condition, you will be responsible, rested on your shoulders, and your political achievements on both sides of the parliamentary horseshoe. So with that thought, get up every morning and go to bed every night for the next 41 days, which is what's left of this election campaign. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2022-02-21-231	Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, an independent Member, who will be able to make his statement after the agenda, is the following:. Enough of the Covid dictatorship! It's an address. Here you go.
u2022-02-21-232	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Fidesz has built a vaccination-based society for the past year and a half. This is the aspect that precedes everything else. In the public sector, mandatory vaccination has already been introduced, so the government tells the public workers not to eat. Not a teacher who is a good teacher, who is loved by children, who have adequate professional qualifications, but who has been vaccinated. The person who chooses this profession and does his job well can not be a policeman in Hungary today, but who has been vaccinated. I would not be able to work in health care, in the social sphere, in public administration and so on, to list the entire public sphere, who is a good professional, but who has been vaccinated. The Hungarian Movement protested against this, we protested on the street, we marched before Viktor Orbán's office, and we raised our voice against this dictatorship in our demonstration before the State Secretary for Health and the State Secretary for Education. But what's even more outrageous is the way they're trying to force this vaccine on the kids. Our Hungary Movement in Hungary is the only party against vaccination of children. Here we are, ladies and gentlemen, that if anyone in one class gets a coronary virus, they will send healthy, uninoculated children to quarantine. Healthy children are not provided with online education, and parents are not entitled to supplementary leave. It's called coercion, it's called force. They want to force a vaccine on our children, the long-term effects of which no one knows, and what the government and its experts have told us so far, the vast majority of them were lies. It is not true that there are hardly any side effects or they last for up to a day or two. It's not even true that I'm protected for life by these vaccines. It's not true that anyone who's been vaccinated doesn't get the disease and can't infect anyone else. Gergely Gulyás said that a year ago. Now we know, we can see that all this was a lie. Just like Viktor Orbán lied when he said that the vaccine was a bulletproof vest, and the person who was vaccinated will be released from the virus. For everyone today, I think it has become clear that vaccination will not stop this epidemic. At the same time, the Hungarian government took the side of vaccine manufacturers against the Hungarian people and became the servers of multi-company companies. The fact that both in the European Parliament and in Hungary the Hungarian government has accepted without a word that the vaccine manufacturers have made open contracts to the elected representatives and do not take responsibility for the vaccinations is clearly depraved by the Hungarian government to the servers of the vaccine manufacturers. On the other hand, in view of the economic consequences of epidemic management, it is clear that the government could have taxed multinational trade chains, large tech companies, casinos, or the entire pharmaceutical industry, as they increased their income even when everyone else was struggling with livelihoods in Hungary and had to live with restrictions and closures. Our Homeland Movement is the only party that would lift any epidemiological restrictions. We need to get our lives back and treat Hungarian citizens as adults, who can decide what they want to do with their own bodies. [[18.40]] From the beginning, we raised our voice against discrimination, we collected donations before Christmas for the undisposals who lost their jobs, we collected signatures against closures and compulsory vaccinations over a year ago, we published the truth about the real consequences of vaccinations in continuous fact-finding videos and writings, we set up a corona virus research centre, we run free legal assistance services for blackmailed people, uninoculated people, we published complaints from the Constitutional Court regarding vaccinations of health workers, protection certificates, compulsory vaccination of workers, and we also held dozens of demonstrations in rural and Budapest. If, on 3 April, the Hungarian Movement is given sufficient authority and becomes an unavoidable political force in the next Parliament, then we can bring an end to the Covid dictatorship once and for all. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the independent.]]
u2022-02-21-233	Dear Parliament, Congressman László Varju, a representative of DK, can speak now:. What is happening in Újpesten? It's an address. Here you go.
u2022-02-21-234	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. I would also like to give a brief report on what is happening in my constituency on the day of the first Parliament meeting this year, as there have been developments that have justified this in recent months. The management of the municipality is tirelessly concerned with finding the opportunity to create resources and explore opportunities in the situation created after the withdrawal of billions of forints, as well as the opportunities for development. I would like to give some examples of the results that have been achieved. Since my last report, three of the most important cases have been brought to the stage of completion or started in the coming weeks and months, which I think are important. Soon the implementation of the Szilas Multisport Base will begin with the support of the Budapest Space_KÖZ competition. In the current empty area, a smaller reception area is established with benches and bicycle storages. A little further inside will be the reception building, with thermal insulation, plants, and solar panels on top. A reception building will be set up, where janitors, women's and men's lockers, washrooms will be equipped with barrier-free design, so that those who come to group training, as well as NGOs, sports associations, school groups will be able to change comfortably, shower and sports. There's gonna be a new gymnast with eight new outdoor gym equipment. During the construction, green surfaces are renewed, and 21 trees are added to the environment, and there will be ornamental pears and linden, if anyone is interested in this, as well as shrubs and perennials. The investment may be completed by the end of September. Furthermore, according to our plans, the renovation of Pácoló-Intarzia street, the so-called green main square in Szent István square, and the construction of a new park at the City Gate will also be completed this year. However, development in the Újpest clinic may be more important than that. It is possible to do this with the program - Healthy Budapest. Within the framework of this, the SZTK is set out in Annex VII to the SZTK. A brand-new loco center will be established on the first floor. There will be magnetic and massage therapy for rooms, gymnasiums, dressing rooms and service rooms. In addition, the website of the institution was renewed in February and online bookings were introduced. From March, the professional clinic uses a more modern medical software, and two automatic customer reception columns have also been installed. These have made patient administration faster, more transparent, and, at the same time, the visit to the institute in the epidemic situation has become more secure. The long-range survey started in April in radiology, and the waiting list for ultrasound and mammographical studies ended in August, with a total of 1124 people affected at the end of 2019. In addition, the building of the mental health and care provider in Nyár utca, the purchase of new equipment and IT improvements are expected. In addition, the top priority is to maintain the current excellent team and to invite additional colleagues to Újpest, which we do not look better than the fact that a new ophthalmologist has arrived and started working in the specialist clinic these days. Ladies and gentlemen, As you can see, Újpest also strives to develop in the face of the policy of the Orbán government that affects local governments, and is on the path that we have dreamed of together with the opposition parties, factions, civil communities and the Újpestians. And I have to say, who says the opposite on a flyer, a billboard, or even here in Parliament, I can say that the sky is blue, the grass is green, and Fidesz is lying. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-02-21-235	MEP László Hajdu, the representative of DK is the following speaker:. It has become almost impossible for the municipalities to create their budget. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-02-21-236	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, By the end of this month, municipalities will prepare their budgets. Budget-making is free when there is free money to plan a budget. In my post-meeting comment, I would like to talk about the conditions under which budgets are to be prepared, especially in those municipalities where tax power is to be measured. Of the 3200 municipalities, there are about 750 municipalities where withdrawal is stronger and less money can be used to organise a plan-like version of the budget that includes mandatory task provision, development and operation that can be achieved without credit, since they can't even get loans for development, not even for reimbursing development. The circumstances have been entered into the title of the material because during the 12 years since the administration of the local government has been assigned to this government, we have found that it is always more difficult to manage under worse conditions, there is a continuous withdrawal from the municipalities, and with permanent restructuring, such as the nationalization of public education and other measures such as the division of public administration and the breakdown of administrative services into government offices and municipalities, there has been such a disturbance in the management of the municipalities, or a cost for rural municipalities to travel miles and days for administration, even though a performer who had local knowledge could provide almost all of the local services. This is even more difficult with powers, since we have been distracted from the tasks of construction and settlement planning and land-sharing. Land sharing requires an on-site knowledge that almost makes you smile and ridiculous, but only laughs at it in pain. I believe that, under these circumstances, our revenues are also fundamentally limited. Our incomes are limited by the fact that personal income tax was immediately withdrawn by a hundred percent at the start-up, and then the withdrawal of the car tax took place at two paces, and then the withdrawal of 50 percent of the business tax up to a turnover of 4 billion. But the most serious thing is that this government has also introduced new taxes, which is called a solidarity contribution, which is the XV. in the case of district municipality, he grew up to HUF 1.5 billion. At the beginning, in 2016, it was only HUF 260 million, and the government now withdraws 1.5 billion forints a year. The explanation is that nationalized schools need something to support, and we're gonna pay for it. They took it from us with the wealth, but we'll pay for it. It's difficult to develop under these circumstances. Adding 3.2 billion is the withdrawal from the 2022 budget that could stay with us, since they are withdrawing their own revenue. Walking among the people and talking with them, Balázs Barkóczi, my successor, because after 20 years I finish my career in the Hungarian Parliament, in the legislation we hear from people that they want nice roads without potholes, beautiful sidewalks, panel programs, and they want nice green things. [[18.50]] Yes, that is what we would like, and the 3.2 billion forints that will be taken away from us as sarcasm this year means that all of this can take place only to a limited extent, and I must say that under these circumstances, all Hungarian governments must be smart and clever about how a balance budget will be made. This is not a customer-friendly municipal operation, but I believe that the local population is severely hit, not by the mayor of the municipality, but by the population living there. Therefore, on 3 April, I think that the voters know who to vote for. Thank you.
u2022-02-21-237	Thank you very much. Congressman Zoltán Varga, representative of the Democratic Coalition, is now following:, Fidesz ruined Debrecen's public transport. Here you go.
u2022-02-21-238	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, And that's true, and hold on, though I think they won't be surprised: the original sin in this case, like so many others, began with Lajos Kósa, in a failed story for the Debrecen. He is the one whose name is linked to many other failed investments, among other things his multi-year-long tram 2 project, which was so successful that even after ten years the new trams still scream in the turns because of a faulty design change, even though they grind, abrass, and get separate machines in the track and in vain. And while we're on the road, he's also responsible for the 12-year change of service in bus transport in Debrecen, when, let me put it this way, the State Volán was excluded from the tender possibilities in a delicate way, and instead came a consortium with an external company, which is otherwise controlled by György Kossa, whose name appears in numerous Orbán-wide threads, and can be found in the Board of the Foundation that owns the University of Debrecen. The consortium preferred by Kósa and here I would like to open a parenthesis: ITK, so this Kossa company has absolutely no public transport experience, because before it LCD displays were installed in buses, but this cannot be regarded as a public transport management, in addition to the public opinion, as they promised a profitable public transport service, cheaper travel rates, and a full exchange of bus fleets every ten years in addition to more space and flight density. After just a few months, it turned out that virtually one word of what was described in the tender was not true, nor was it true from the signed public service contract. The exchange of buses was first modified to 12 years, and now we see that there will be buses that will be replaced in 14 years, and that the price of tickets, lower capacity, and even more billions of forints per year will have to be paid to the municipality to ensure that the company or consortium does not simply fail. Today, of course, passengers have completely abandoned public transport in Debrecen, which, on the one hand, only increases the losses, as it is a vicious spiral, and on the other hand it has an exponential increase in traffic and cars, because somehow these people have to get from point A to point B, which, of course, makes Debrecent a capital of traffic jams, but let us not forget the exponential increase in pollution. Then now, during the period of the pandemic, the mayor carefully bypassed the public and the general assembly, the mayor issued a tender for a new bus purchase, where, of course, that not, once again, the company run by the well-known company György Kossa won. Maybe the only difference is that he's not only bought these buses now, he's got them all together in his own garage, he's put them together. The new public service contract, I don't have to tell you, will hurt the city for HUF 30 billion. And while the usual banging propaganda from Lajos Kósa and László Papp, mayor of Debrecen, is raging, we are used to how brilliant this acquisition is, while we can see that even before now, they will offer lower service standards for travelers in Debrecen, the new cars that have changed the Volvo buses to date are not even running with the same image or painting. Do you remember? I told you 12 years ago, Lajos Kósa in Debrecen promised to run buses painted on Debrecen's colors, and these old Volvo buses were really like this. These new buses run in all kinds of tiritarks, silver and butter colours, but that would be the least of the problems, but besides the horriable purchase price, the buses, which the buddy company has assembled, instead of the low-floor design, are called low-entry, which is a huge step backwards compared to the conditions of 12 years ago, as the platform in the passenger compartment not only reproduces the time of take-off and take-off, but the built-in platform is not safe for passengers, nor for mothers and children. Technically, the city of Debrecen purchased interurban buses to serve local public transport, and the Kósa team was so capable. All because, most likely, the Orbán-friendly company can only assemble these buses. The Koshas say it's good for the Debrecen for 30 billion forints. We think that after April 3, Kósa, his team and the entire Fidesz Joint Chiefs will have to deal with this business. Thank you so much for listening.
u2022-02-21-239	Thank you very much. István Apáti, an independent Member, spoke after the next agenda:. Nobody dares to look at the people living in Szatmár as a bird. Here you go.
u2022-02-21-240	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, In Szatmár there is the poorest district in the country, the district of Csengeri, which is also my hometown, because I come from a family in Jingers, and unfortunately the rest of the region cannot boast much stronger economic indicators. This is strange only because it is a classic and characteristically strong right-wing citadel, and Fidesz sees this hegemony in the electoral records for its own benefit, but unfortunately, people living in Szatmár are less experienced on their payroll, or they do not experience at all that they are a priority beneficiary of the last 32 or even the last 12 years. In the Mátészalka constituency, it was the last time in 1994 that a non-fidesz candidate obtained an individual mandate. Of course, we do not dispute that small improvements have been made, but there is still a real big, powerful development. And, of course, the area of Mátészalka, the bellery and the entire constituency are also plagued by many other problems, not only by the fact that, after a month's decent and hard work, in the vast majority of cases, an average employee does not receive ten twenty thousand, nor does he receive a net HUF 200,000. This is very, very difficult to make a living because, despite the government's success propaganda and lies, inflation rates for basic foods can be measured not in percentages, but in multipliers over the last two years. This places a huge burden on workers in a very low-income area. As we also see, a continuous political close-up must be fought to maintain the basic care of the hospital in Mátészalka. In the autumn of 2020, the obstetrics and gynecology department was closed this time, and then, politically speaking, it was struck at the last minute with a warning shot and a great effort to save obstetrics and gynecology, at least for now, with the great cooperation of the Hungarian Movement and the population. Since the centre of the region is also from a health point of view, it is essential to maintain the central health centre of our city in the long term. Of course, both the Mátészalkai and the bellery industrial park have free chemical values. In Mátészalka, very little progress can be seen, and the bell industrial park has virtually only free capacity, because there is absolutely no real, meaningful operation here. Last but not least, let me say something about two major investments, two investments that exist on paper and at the level of propaganda, but in reality they have not yet started. The first and the most painful is the construction of the M49 bypass road, which is about the same as the investment of Metro 4 in Budapest. In Budapest, the mayor's title was won in at least two or three elections with the false promises of the construction of Metro 4. [[19.00]] This is exactly the same M49 bypass road, it's been on the agenda for at least a quarter of a century, at least 25 years. The construction of the section between the Guardian and Oxytópös could begin at any time. And I don't know when it's gonna happen. They all look very well on plans and design tables, but in reality the actual physical execution has not yet started, although according to a 2006 Cottage Counting Data in Kocsord, in 24 hours 10 thousand vehicles passed through the settlement of Kocsord in exactly 10 340, which has increased to 16,000 by 2010, and since then it has been well over 20,000. From road safety to significant depreciation of residential property, there are a number of problems and the fact that the road has not started. It seems that while other areas have received this development, we will have to wait a long, long time. On 4 May 2017, the Prime Minister promised the people of the Jingler district the construction of the prison in Jingler. That would give at least 500 people a job, make at least 2,000 people a living. This, too, seems to remain a smoky plan; unfortunately, it is also necessary to wait for this investment to start for unknown reasons. We ask nothing more, my fellow Members, but to take into account that we are equal citizens of this country. We fulfil the same obligations, we bear and pay the same public burdens, we are entitled to the same rights and opportunities, because we are nothing more vile than those living in another region of the country. So don't you ever think of people living in Satmar as birds. Thank you very much.
u2022-02-21-241	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Anett Bősz, representative of DK, is as follows:, Érd and its region can only win with the title of the change of government. Here you go.
u2022-02-21-242	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and thank you for the opportunity. Ladies and gentlemen, This is one of the last times that we will meet in this Chamber before the parliamentary election, and I trust that one of the last times we will be seated with our allies in the opposition benches. I believe that we can change governments, and I know that this society really needs it. In addition to restoring the rule of law and democracy, in the opposition's joint programme, we are planning a number of practical steps for the country as well as for each region, which will make progress in the lives of all our countrymen. However, asking for the patience and understanding of the Érdians, the Turkish Ballinians, the Diósdians, the Tarnokians, the Salty Roads, and the people in this room, I would now like to report on an event that I rushed back to Parliament, which concerns all of us; and believe me, this note that I am holding in my hand will be given a great role in all the street forums. However, what is happening right now in Dankó Street at Gábor Iványi's house is unacceptable and unacceptable, it could not have happened in a democracy, in a rule of law. I come from Dankó Street, where church and social workers fill a number of state tasks, in many cases teaching the children of homeless, fallen social groups, caring for people whose dignity has been lost for a long time; and they give back not only their dignity but also their food, clean clothes, warm rooms, or a bed if anyone needs it. We could all learn from them out of solidarity and humility, from the service they provide. The sin of Gábor Iványi is that his church paid contributions when he had money, because he was deprived of the current power from more than a billion forints. Gábor Iványi has no crime. At the same time, I come from a room where, by the way, you won't believe it, but prayer-made benches were classified as crime scenes, and we were with my fellow Members to the people who were interfering with crime scenes. There were NAVs and policemen on the street as far as the eyes were concerned, because Gábor Iványi has been living day by day for years now; for there are churches in this country that please the power and those that do not. It seems that Gábor Iványi, after all those years, which, by the way, personally linked him to the Prime Minister's family, is no longer important to the two-thirds, but has become an enemy. But let me quote him, his words this afternoon. Because when we were sitting there at the so-called crime scene and they said that the Members were obstructing the crime scene, Gábor Iványi said that the representatives were the eyes of society, they had to see everything and show everything about what was going on. Well, we've shown you a little bit of what it's like to have a broken rule of law and democracy, what it's like to have equals and equals not only in church politics, but also everywhere, because the thing is that Gábor Iványi deals with people who have never been equal enough who have never been good enough to care about this system. But believe me, after the change of government, you don't have to be good enough for the government to care about someone. This opposition unit is very serious about the principles of equal dignity and equal treatment. Well, that's why we're going back to Dankó Street, and that's why we're going to help the Hungarian Evangelical Brotherhood in everything, even if it's a shame that they're taking their leaders in a chain of prisoners here in the election campaign. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your patience.
u2022-02-21-243	And now, in order to comply with all the regulations of the house, the congresswoman connects her thoughts to questions of Érd and its region in 40 seconds. That's what Congresswoman is doing now.
u2022-02-21-244	Of course, I can also tell Érd, Diósd, Törökbálint, Tárnók, Pusztazamor and Saltkút that if we can restore the rule of law, the democratic institutional system, the principle of equal treatment in this country, it will be better for everyone in this region, too. Because these issues are closely linked to the infrastructure and all other institutional obligations that have been missing in the last 12 years. We can restore this in the 1st constituency of Pest County if we change government. Thank you for listening.
u2022-02-21-245	Mr Péter Ágh, representative of Fidesz, applied for a post-meeting speech on the theme of the cities of the county of North Vas 2018-2022. Here you go. [[19.10]]
u2022-02-21-246	Dear House, In 2014, I started the parliamentary elections in an individual district with the aim of creating good and lasting things with the people who live there. In this parliamentary term, too, serious developments have been made throughout North Vas County since 2018. Today I would like to report before this House on events affecting cities, and the next time I will focus on the villages. Bükon's government decision allowed the main road through the city to be reborn and the area in front of the church was built, bicycle roads. The development of the park in front of the town hall created a real city centre. There is also a source for kindergarten and playground building. The spa has been enriched with a new medical center, a bath entrance, and the new center of the city is being built. Bükfürdő was served by the project dealing with precipitation water drainage and sewage. Nestlé is also making a high-value expansion. In Celldömölk, the market and nursery were renewed from a central source. By 2018, the new district office was completed. After the outside, the Berzsenyi High School was renovated internally. In the area of the village of Isákfa, sewage treatment was also solved. The city was also affected by a drinking water improvement programme. In 2019, athletes could take possession of the new table tennis hall. The Catholic Elementary School of St. Benedict has been expanded with a new section of the building. In 2020, Celldömölk was involved in the renewal of the Centre of Commons, kindergarten renovations, sports parks and running circles. State aid has contributed to the new investment of Wewalka, which employs many people. The rescue station has increased with a new ambulance. The government has made available the billion-dollar amount of funds that could be used to renew the main road through downtown. With government support, the renovation of the Benedictine Order was completed. One of the city's gates, the railway station in Celldömölk, also received a worthy appearance. The development of primary school was completed from 278 million forints, but the kitchen of Ostffy Square and the kindergarten was also delivered. There were serious road renovations on the street. Among other things, the state road to Bükörk Kőszeg has been renewed. The new solar power plant, built at the edge of the city, was handed over by President János Áder. In Rákóczi utca the bike path was completed, the Malomkert was beautiful. The government has provided hundreds of millions of resources for nursery and kindergarten. We were able to hand over the upgraded sewage plant. The new road and bicycle route to the border has been built in stone, with the support of the government the large-scale renovation of the city's road network and the construction of parking lots have begun. Government sources arrived at the establishment of the cemetery, the construction of a nursery and a new rescue station, the renovation of the city's significant symbols and churches. Our lobby work allowed the new fire department, the city major, the new market and the Boating Lake experience park to be built. Serious work was also carried out in kindergartens, Jurisich High School, Catholic and Lutheran educational institutions. Many monuments could have their old light back. The railway is also affected by a major development in Kőszeg. The connection between Szombathely-Kőszeg is also being prepared. In Répcelak, the new market was completed by 2018, and the complex development of the area next to the main road could be realised. The construction of the nursery must have started. There's a new ambulance at the rescue station. Chanigi Street has been renewed. We got the IC to stop again. From central sources, an outdoor fitness park was established. Répcelak was also affected by a billion-dollar network expansion. The city's big employer, the Liss Patron manufacturer, received government support. We were able to hand over the Radó house, which made the city centre even more beautiful. In Sárvár the Sárvár Arena was built using the government's support, the city's new indoor community space. The renovation of the main road through downtown was carried out by public investment, and the House of Music was completed. The government also demonstrated its partnership by triggering the former billionaire's loan of the bath, which was a great help during the period of the pandemic. The Boating Lake's environment has become more beautiful. There have been serious sources of rainwater drainage, bicycle road construction, road renovations. The new building of Szent László Catholic Elementary School has been built, the Gárdonyi Géza Primary School and the Care Centre have been renovated. The train station and medical offices were also affected by development. In addition, Sárvár received considerable resources for his nursery development. The city centre became the heart of the city, the renewed main square. The renovation of the new road between M86 and the centre of the city was completed, the cradle was built, and the application for the bicycle route to Szombathely was also supported. The church was also affected by renovation, a solar power plant was built, and there was also a source for the pediatrician's office. Building on the results of the last four years, our goal will continue to be to develop the region, as the county of North Vas must go forward, not back. Thank you for your attention.
u2022-02-21-247	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. Good evening, everyone. Good night.
