u2022-05-23-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good afternoon. Ladies and Gentlemen, The 6th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to everyone who's been monitoring our work. I declare that on 19 May 2022, Ms Éva Sebők, Member of the Committee of Parliament, informed me that the cause of conflict of interest against her had been terminated on 19 May 2022, so as from 20 May 2022 she can exercise the right to consult and vote, submit a motion and be entitled to remuneration from that date. I would like to inform you that Rebecca Szabó, representative of the Dialogue, announced on 20 May 2022 that the cause of conflict of interest against her will be terminated with effect from 23 May 2022, so that the Parliament and Parliamentary Committees can exercise their right to vote and to vote from 24 May 2022, to submit a motion from that date, and to be entitled to remuneration from that date. Dear Parliament, Lóránt Keresztes, representative of the LMP, applied for a pre-meeting speech. I give you the floor, Congressman, here you go.
u2022-05-23-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, For three months now, the toxic mining water has been pouring into the Sajó River in the Rozsnyo district. The Slovak government is in a state of paralysis and denial. Last Monday I was at the site in Rozsnyo district, and I went to the source of the pollution, the town of Alssajó, and I looked at the state of the river, and I followed the river all the way to the Hungarian border. Then, on Tuesday, I briefed you here in your speech before the agenda, and on several occasions last week I raised this issue in the Committee on Sustainable Development, and I spoke about the ecological disaster that will be achieved with regard to Sajó. At the same time, I specifically asked Minister Péter Szijjártó and asked Minister István Nagy to take the most decisive steps to resolve the matter as soon as possible, according to their own portfolio. Since then, I have been able to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that another week has passed, and nothing has changed, so that as much as 2.5 tonnes of pollutants per day go into the Sajó River. Last week I informed you that there is no evidence that any specialist would appear around the source of pollution, do any work there, or even prepare anything, and it is clear that they have not even found the source of the contamination. We can also see that the Slovak authorities have not declared an emergency adapted to the situation in order to be able to act at all faster. Since nothing has changed in the last week, I think it is appropriate to discuss this issue again in front of the public of the Hungarian Parliament, because it is quite clear that the protection of our common natural resources is our joint task. There is no opposition on this issue, there are no pro-government politicians, and we all have to act decisively here. That is why I was not pleased with Minister István Nagy's recent facebook comment indicating that he himself, Minister, was not competent in the territory of Slovakia. I think that we all feel our own responsibility on a matter like this, and indeed we are all competent, and we also need to act to do the most important thing, so we are preventing further pollution. On this issue, the Hungarian government has not only moral but also legal opportunities for action, and I would like to ask specifically what the government has done so far. Has the Sajó case been dealt with by the competent border committee? If the matter was on the agenda, please inform the public of the steps that they could take or formulate. If the issue was not on the agenda, explain why it did not include this extremely important issue on the agenda of the College. What urgent steps have been taken to prevent further pollution and to remedy damage under the Border Water Agreement? What has been the result of these, and what response has been received from the Slovak parties? If pollution continues and we can see that unfortunately this continues for the time being, according to Hungarian experts, what effect will it have on the domestic part of the river, and what concrete damage prevention measures have been taken or are planned to take to protect the domestic section of the river? So far, professional positions have stressed the importance of Sajó's sub-waters in diluting this contamination, but it is clear that this does not specifically prevent the introduction of pollutants, so that the amount of pollutants does not change. But it is a question of how these effects are expected in summer water periods, i.e. the effects of inflowing tributaries. I indicated to Minister István Nagy that we considered the issue important, and I felt competent enough to go to the scene. This is what I asked Minister Szijjártó and Minister István Nagy to take the toughest, most determined steps towards the Slovak authorities. And in this direction, I would also ask that the Hungarian public be informed, because it already employs a lot of people, what measurement results they have, what steps they take, what preparatory activities will take and what will take place in the coming time, preparing for the period or the situation where these specific pollutants will be measurable on the domestic part of the river. I would also like to thank all the citizens and activists in the Highlands who have drawn attention to this serious environmental disaster at the earliest, Mr Örs Russian, and I also think of Dr. Tibor Varga, a surgeon in Rye. They also launched a petition in the political life of Slovakia, to which Slovak environmental activists joined. So obviously this is a joint matter, a joint matter in Slovak internal politics, but it is a common matter for all of us in the Carpathian Basin to protect our natural resources together. That's why I'm asking everyone to put party politics on hold. At the same time, I ask the honourable members of the Government of Hungary to see the legal possibilities at their disposal and to make use of them in order to stop this shocking pollution as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
u2022-05-23-2	In response, I give the floor to Secretary of State Farkas. Here you go.
u2022-05-23-3	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, Unfortunately, it is not the first time we have experienced pollution on our Hungarian rivers, in the last decades the news has been filled with the idea that either the foaming of Rába or the disaster of the cyanide pollution of the Tisza has occurred at almost the same time. These were the most important and perhaps the most important issues of water pollution in the rivers of our country, and we are once again faced with a case where this serious pollution is concentrated not within our borders, but in water catchment areas outside our borders. As I mentioned, these pollutions do not usually stay in place, they pass through a river and can cause serious habitat damage on these river sections. Fortunately, the pollution in the Slovak section of Sajó is not detected on the Hungarian part of the river. Professionals are constantly monitoring and examining the quality of water and the status of aquatic life, and fortunately, no heavy metal pollution, odour, foaming or fish mortality has been observed in our country. As you asked, in March 2022 the Slovak Republic requested official information on the results of the Slovak side measurements, the measures taken and the possibilities for further dilution from reservoirs within the framework of the Committee on Water Management of our border water in relation to Hungary. [[13.10]] The Hungarian water sector ordered a second-degree water quality alert on 13 March at 10 a.m. on the river section concerned, since then there has been river monitoring, sampling at three points in Sajó, as well as at the Tisza above and during the penetration phase. During the contamination, iron oxide-containing material was added to Sajó in Slovakia. It is important to stress that this substance is not toxic. I personally witnessed the cyanide pollution in Tisza, and fortunately it was not nearly this issue, this severity. In order to protect the living world, our nature, we must take every opportunity to eliminate further pollution by the Slovak party, which is why we believe it is important that Minister István Nagy is expected to travel to the Slovak Minister on his first official journey within days, and he is expected to do so in a short time. The quality of Sajó corresponds to the limits set, the toxic metals measured from water are all below the limits of the domestic river, the pollution of Sajó in Slovakia is significant, because of the repeated dilution you referred to, which does not cause water pollution in Hungary beyond the limit. True, I have not personally been to this river, only one of my acquaintances reported this morning that his father has been fishing on Sajon for weeks, and he has found no particular dirt, i.e. death, or even good catch results. Of course, this is not a professional issue, it is just a simple human question. Contamination may be spectacular due to its color, and may cause confusion and taste changes in tap water, but this does not affect the cleaning processes of the waterworks in the first place. Ladies and gentlemen, Long-term permanent deposition can affect the life space of aquatic organisms, but this affects mainly sediment-living animals, as we have seen in Tisza in a significant part earlier period of cyanide contamination. As a result of the rainier weather, which is fortunately in northern Hungary, there is no small flood in the South Great Plain on the affected section of Sajó, and this has greatly diluted the flow of water, and not least the suspended matter content has increased, as is usually the case at this time, with a larger flood wave, the drift of drifts will begin on these river sections. Honourable Congressman, As a man living near the water, who I referred to earlier, because I live in the Tisza-Körösök-Kurca region, I can safely say that it is very important for me to protect the water and wildlife of our rivers and lakes in Hungary. As I have already mentioned, unfortunately, I have experienced cyanide pollution and the damage caused and, unfortunately, caused by living water in the coming period. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] To avoid a similar situation, we will use all possible means to find a solution with the Slovak party to clean up Sajó. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-05-23-4	Sándor Berki, representative of the Dialogue, applied for a pre-meeting speech. I give you the floor, please.
u2022-05-23-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr Speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, I can speak for the first time in the Hungarian Parliament. First of all, I would like to say that it is a great honour for me, because as a simple Hungarian Roma in rural areas, I also think that taking part in the management of the fate of my country is perhaps one of the most noble tasks. This time I would like to thank all those who have made it possible for me to be here today as a politician in the Dialogue. As a Hungarian politician of Roma origin, my primary task is to represent the Roma society, the rural and working people, the county of Nógrád and the town of Salgótarján, my narrower country, my home. I wish to do everything in my power to represent my fellow countrymen. Although I have only been a Member for a few weeks, I have been invited to the European Roma Week in Brussels, where, among other things, the Brussels funds for Roma inclusion must reach Roma people, Roma communities. The government's Roma strategy seems promising on paper, but we know that the paper can handle a lot of things. The question is what will actually be achieved from this strategy, and what will remain only a promise. We know that the current and previous governments have already developed a number of very well-sounding strategies and action plans, but the reality shows a very dramatic picture of the situation of Gypsy. In order to achieve real, meaningful results for everyone and to help the situation of Roma living in Hungary, I offer you my cooperation. Let's skip the past feuds. Let us turn to the future and hopefully our common goals. I think that the Roma issue is not a party- or right- and left-wing issue, but a common issue of Hungarian society, which must rise above party political views. I believe in the Hungarian people, I believe that they also see the Roma issue as a task that can be solved and solved jointly by a society. I know that the implementation of a truly effective Roma strategy will also greatly improve the situation of Hungarian society, as we are a nation. The people of Nógrád and Salgótarján are also part of this nation, which is why I plan to work closely with my fellow Members who have won individual mandates in the county of Nógrád. As a countryman, it is also important for me to develop the countryside, to catch up with the countryside. Nógrád is not only one of the smallest of the country, but also, unfortunately, one of the most demoralized counties in the country, even though he has unique talents. During the period ahead, there is a great deal of work to be done, and in order to catch up with Nógrád, these tasks must not be delayed. You can count on my support and cooperation to help our county develop every proposal with a better intention. That is why I would like to offer my assistance to my fellow Member from Nógrád county, who has obtained two individual mandates. Of course, in addition to my concern for the Roma and the county of Nógrád, I declare myself a proud Hungarian gypsy. As a member of the Hungarian nation, it is not a question that I want to represent and serve all Hungarians in my work in Parliament and beyond. I came here to work with you, to work together to find solutions to decades of problems. I hope that I can count on you for a similar partnership, for cooperation in the interests of our country. Thank you for listening.
u2022-05-23-6	In response, Secretary of State Károly Kontra has the floor.
u2022-05-23-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to say that we accept the Member's willingness to cooperate, and we also consider it important that we work together to achieve social cohesion and to catch up with the Roma. I am pleased that you have expressed this intention and that we should trust that we will be able to work together successfully over the next four years in order to catch up with society and to catch up with the Roma. [[13.20]] Allow me to return to the fact that the issue of social inclusion came under the control of the Ministry of Interior at the beginning of 2019, and in 2020 we also adopted the Hungarian national social inclusion strategy. The EU catch-up improvements for 2021-27 are based on the targets of the catch-up strategy 2030. The strategy aims to promote labour market integration, job access, employment, better access to chance-creating education, health services, reducing territorial inequalities, improving environmental and housing conditions. Three-year action plans will be drawn up for implementation. At national level, the main cooperation and partnership forums for catching up policy have been established, in which both Roma and non-Roma are represented, as the Member has put it. A Societal Interdepartmental Committee on Catch-up and Gypsy Affairs and a Roma Coordination Council were established. The relief of territorial disadvantages has been formulated by the Member as to the area from which he has come and what his purpose is to serve in the area of the settlements that the government launched in 2019, which are already present at 118 locations of 300 of the most disadvantaged settlements identified in cooperation with the Hungarian Central Statistical Office. Most settlements have successful cooperation, harmony, peace, devotional parties, ideas and goals. I would like to emphasise this in any case. The organizational work must also be done by someone, the Ministry of the Interior has undertaken this and considers it a very important task to this day. In recent years, there have been a number of interventions aimed at improving the well-being of children and households with children, the positive effects of which are already visible and visible at the level of numbers. It is an outstanding and significant achievement that the proportion of people living in poverty among one of the most vulnerable social groups, young people and children, under 17 years of age, shows a significant improvement. Of course, we are not satisfied, we want to do more, and we want to achieve results together in this very important area. Employment rates are increasing among the Roma population. At the earliest age they will help you with the. Safe start. Children's homes. There are 140 children's homes with national budget support, creating a chance to develop 2500 children every day. Currently 183 schools operate from domestic, national sources. On average, schools help 5500 children each year to study every day. All children under the age of three can go to kindergarten and receive four free meals a day. The Travel Scholarship encourages 10,000 disadvantaged students to study each year. We want this number to grow. The Travel to the Graduate grant gives more than 600 disadvantaged university students a year the opportunity to continue their university studies. We're hoping this number will grow, too. In the 11 Roma schools, 350 underprivileged Roma young people live and learn each year and receive scholarships. More than 500 people have already obtained their degrees, and they work in a respected profession in everyday life. Last week, Mr Löcsei also asked for the floor on a similar subject, and I also told him that catching up is an important national issue, a national issue. Let us work together to achieve even more success in this area over the next four years. Thank you for listening, and thank you for your support. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the dialogue.]]
u2022-05-23-8	On behalf of the Group of our country, Mrs Dóra Dúró asked for the floor. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2022-05-23-9	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Fundamental Law of Hungary states that children of fetal age are entitled to protection from the moment of conception. But in practice, it's just an empty sentence, if I wanted to put it harder, I'd say it's a lie. Indeed, from the moment of conception, the fetus lives, and our Homeland Movement suggests that he himself should bring this fact to his mother, who will determine his life. And we are undertaking the task of bringing this fact to you as decision-makers, to our fellow Members, to the members of the government. Indeed, the most important question is when life is created, and the answer to that is absolutely clear: at the moment of conception. From now on, the new quality is only improving, but it is created at conception. We are convinced that from this moment on, the fetus has the same dignity as any of us in this room as I, as Secretary of State or any of our fellow human beings. However, they do not have the same rights. We are proposing that we take a step in giving them a real right to live. László Sólyom would otherwise call this a step of similar importance to the liberation of slaves in the explanatory statement of a Constitutional Court decision, so that the legal concept of man, reaching its final frontier, coincides with the concept of moral and natural sciences, and that is when we could really guarantee the sentence contained in the Fundamental Law. Because what difference does it make if the fetus passes through the birth canal? Nothing, actually. His heart beats the same way when his mother carries him in the womb, so rights cannot be made dependent solely on the passage through the birth canal. I know that many families, many women are involved, so it is very important to say that I do not want to stigmatize anyone, I do not want to break a staff over anyone, but every single child in Hungary is a public treasure, and we also have to speak out for them. Indeed, unwanted pregnancies are also intended for children, as we know from surveys carried out in the United States and the Czech Republic. After a year, 95 percent of the women who were denied the possibility of having an abortion said that the right decision was not to have an abortion on them. It'll be a year! Many of our women will have to carry this burden for the rest of their lives if they actually go through this procedure. It is also important to stress the need to free mothers, and it is important for them to feel and see that there is another possibility for them, whoever is trying to press them or force them to have an abortion. It's important for them to feel that politics, the government, are on their side. Our suggestion, that the mother listens to the child's heartbeat before performing the intervention, is in fact not a tightening of the heart, but merely information about the real stakes, the child's life. Abortion is the leading death in Hungary. And I know that in your reply, Mr Secretary of State will tell you that the number of abortions has decreased, but it must be seen that one in five children who have been conceived is still the victim of abortion in our country. Gábor Gavra wrote about our proposal in the Weeks as follows: Dóra Dúró made only a suggestion to communicate with each other at least once in life between the fetus and the mother who decided on his fate. It is proposed that the fetus on the verge of unknowing life and death should at least send a message to the mother who thinks of her fate with her heart voice. They are the most innocent and defenseless victims. Twenty-five thousand fetus babies a year. I want them to live, too. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-05-23-10	In response, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2022-05-23-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Indeed, one feels that the greatest gift in his life is his child. After a child is born, there is no day in your life that is unnecessary, for you see your own children grow, grow, see your life continue, and you see that your life will surely make sense. This is why the government decided in 2010 to call it a very long demographic autumn or even a demographic winter, but there must have been a demographic autumn behind the country in 2010 for at least a generation, making a family-friendly view of governance the most important. We said that despite saying in other countries that these trends cannot be changed, we are going to launch a family-friendly policy here in the heart of Europe, in the middle of Europe, which may show other countries that there is a sense in a family-friendly turnaround, it makes sense for families to devote more energy, which means not only additional financial resources, but also extra attention and extra perception. [[13.30]] After all, if we looked at the trends in recent years, it was a rather sad picture in 2010, because since 1981 there has been a continuous decline in population, almost one million fewer populations, a fertility rate of 1,23, which was the lowest in the European Union, the lowest, no one had a worse demographic indicator than ours, and the situation has not been rosy for the future, since between 2010 and 2020 the proportion of mothers aged 20 to 39 has fallen by 261,000. However, we have seen that the family-friendly approach of Hungarian people, the family-centred values, is so strong that we can get out of this, and that if the state helps to break down the obstacles to having children, we can achieve results here. And now we have more than a decade behind us, so we can see these results. While in 2010, the number of live births was barely over 90,000, now 93,000 by saying just how much the number of mothers in parental life has decreased. The fertility rate has increased from 1.25 to 1.59, and if you look at the full amount of a decade, this means the birth of an extra 150,000 children and the greatest increase within the European Union. As you mentioned, the number of abortions decreased from over 40,000 in 2010, from 40 500 to 23 900 in the last year. The number of marriages increased from 35,000 to 72 thousand, more than twice as much because of the family-friendly turnaround. The number of divorces has decreased from 23,000 to 14900. And women between the ages of 20 and 64 also had a record increase in employment, from 54 percent to 67 percent. If you look back a little in time, you can also see that indeed, this fertility rate increase is a 24 percent increase! What has happened at the same time as the average of the European Union? It wasn't an increase, it was a decrease of 2.5 percent. Thus, the trend in the EU continues to turn to autumn, while ours promises us the hope of spring. If we look at the increase in the number of marriages in Hungary, when was the last such level, well, the highest was once around 1949, then there was 107 thousand, then there was a strong decrease, and in 1986 there was about 72 thousand in the order of magnitude as it is now. So after a long decline, we managed to bring this number up after 2010 so that we managed to compensate for the decline between 1986 and 2011. If you look at the number of divorces, there was also an increase, and now you managed to bring it down to the level of the earlier. If I look at the number of abortions, the highest in Hungary was once around 1970, there were 206 thousand abortions in Hungary in one year, and now the decrease is 36 percent. The number of abortions in Hungary was less than today in 1954. It is clear, then, that this is a family-friendly policy, thank God, everything! This is obviously not a coincidence, and it is not just a result of luck. If we look at where we started in the area of family support, we spent 3.5 percent of GDP in 2010 and the fertility rate was 1.25; now we are well above 3.5 percent, we are over 4.5 percent, and we have a fertility rate around 1.59. And if I had more time, I could tell you how many hungaricums we've introduced. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] how many family-friendly measures are in Hungary alone, there is no other country, and it has contributed to giving birth to as many children as possible in Hungary. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-05-23-12	Our next speaker is MSZP's representative, Mrs Agnes Kunhalmi. There you go. I'll give you the floor.
u2022-05-23-13	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, It's not exactly two weeks from now, it's the 5th of June, because we're not going to be meeting next week, so let me deal with this right now. In recent years, we have often said that teachers do not have much pleasure even on this holiday, well, there will not be much reason to celebrate the next time, because in recent years the independence and autonomy of the profession has been radically reduced, their material and moral appreciation has deteriorated significantly, while their workload and non-educated hours of work have increased enormously. As a result, unfortunately and clearly we have to face a speedy exit, now not only in smaller settlements, but also in large cities and even in Budapest, the lack of teachers has become noticeable. It is therefore necessary to face the fact that the shortage of teachers has been national and systemic in Hungary for years, at present more than 10,000 teachers and teachers are missing from the system continuously, and the average age of those remaining in the system is increasing, and unfortunately fewer young people are applying for teacher training. Well, it's going to cause a lot of damage to the system together. And the miracle weapon you're offering now is a miracle weapon of order and order, and that won't help this problem, and you know it. On the other hand, there's another miracle weapon called wages. Abandonment could only be stopped and stopped with significant wage increases and other benefits, unless you want to ban the exit, otherwise I would advise you not to do so on the pedagogical track. First, the most important thing is that wages should be raised radically right now, from today or tomorrow at least 50 percent, which would not only reduce emigration, but also make the teaching career attractive to young people again. Fidesz couldn't ignore this in the campaign, as he, or Viktor Orbán himself, said the increase in wages several times in the campaign, that it was necessary, otherwise it also confirmed the justification for the warning strike of teachers. But even at the international press conference on 6 April, Orbán said that what we have undertaken must be done, we have agreed that this year, the following year and the following year there will be a 10-10-10 percent increase, but unfortunately he added that the minimum wage is not expected to be the basis for the pay table again. Well, it's not a real wage increase, and it's not even going to be enough for inflation. Unfortunately, the situation deteriorated even in comparison with this, as Minister of Interior Sándor Pintér, at his hearing in the Commission, said quite simply that when several of us asked him to pay the teachers, he said that I would not promise anything, but I will keep it. Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well. Teachers, on the other hand, will now receive a special gift from you for Teacher's Day: the government intends to compensate for the lack of resources through discipline and the use of law enforcement tools, a sign of which is already visible, a strong restriction of the right to strike. Just as a highly right-wing, Fidesz-related political scientist, Farkas Zárug, openly acknowledged this on TV the other day, and clearly stated that there is no independent Ministry of Health and Education in Hungary so that these areas do not go to the level of a government meeting alone, that is to say, they cannot enforce their interests, but at the same time they are subject to strict political control. However, all of this, as you know, will not be done by XXI. to the development of creative personalities, i.e. a strong, cooperative and united society, if you will, lead to a united and cooperative nation, if you will. This policy discourages teachers and students from education and learning at the very least, further speeding up career departure and latency. According to the MSZP faction, such measures are not necessary. On behalf of my group, I propose that the government carry out an immediate and radical one-off wage increase and that Fidesz keep its earlier promise to preserve the integrity of the value, which he has broken by linking teachers to the minimum wage. And last but not least, on the occasion of the upcoming Teacher's Day, given that in recent years they have received virtually nothing at this time, on Teacher's Day a tray of eggs or sometimes a small chocolate biscuit or a single flower, having regard to the superhuman work of teachers during the Covid period, should receive a uniform on 5 June this year. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Every teacher in every school has a 100-100 thousand HUF Erzsébet voucher! Thank you for your answer. [[Applause in the lines of DK, LMP, Momentum, MSZP and Dialogue.]]
u2022-05-23-14	Once again, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2022-05-23-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, When you talk so enthusiastically about educators, you always remember what you've done, but before I talk about you, let's talk about something more important, the teachers. [[13.40]] Indeed, all of us, I think, think that they should be recognised, not only on the occasion of Teacher's Day, but at any other time, and when there are difficult times in a country, it is important that teachers, the financial security of teachers, be given as much attention as possible. So they deserve respect and recognition, but we cannot say that about left-wing governments. You know, Madam honourable Member, when there was a coronal virus epidemic, all the countries in the world were in difficulty, and they did not know exactly what their financial situation would be in six months, one year or two years from now, and the government has, however, twice during the epidemic, made a 10% wage increase for teachers with a supplement. You can say yes, how there was, how there could have been more. Just, you know, then there was another period in Hungary when there were difficulties, financial difficulties, when you pushed the country into economic difficulties. They did not say that even when there is a crisis, the most important thing is that we preserve the financial security of teachers, not that what we use for teachers, we turn to children and we devote it to our future. They didn't say that, but they said that the IMF came here and said that civil servants had to take a month's wages, so we're gonna take it away from educators. Now, when the whole world is experiencing economic difficulties everywhere in Europe due to the Ukrainian war and the rise in energy prices, we say that this year's 10 percent wage increase will be followed by a 10 percent increase next year and beyond, and that if the economy is doing better, we hope that more can be negotiated. Whatever the problem, we're not saying, like you, that we're gonna take the belt away from the teachers. And you are the ones who have also paid for teacher training during this period, who have introduced tuition fees for teacher training. Now you can say nice words, but it was you who introduced tuition fees for teacher training, that's all. Now you can say nice words that poor children are entitled to school, but it was you who closed the school in 386 places, especially in small towns, where it is difficult for that child to go to the city and go to school. [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] But you did it, you did it with one stroke of a pen. And you can say that educators should be given as much attention as possible. Your attention was that 15,000 teachers were dismissed. You're talking about the need for more teachers, why teachers are leaving the field. We need to talk about this. But you weren't trying to slow down the process where a teacher might leave the field, but you forced the teachers to leave when they dismissed 15,000. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: You've only been ruling for 12 years!]] And what did your prime minister say then? That's what he said to people, to everyone, to young people, to old people, to entrepreneurs, to educators. So when you're talking about greater financial prestige, incentive for a teaching career, it's not about tuition or dismissal of 15,000 people. You have to appreciate teachers, that's right. They need more respect financially than they do now. That's right, we agree. [[Lot. Elizabeth Németh: 12 years!]] Teachers are right when they say they need higher wages, and we all know that inflation is indeed higher in all countries of Europe this year than in previous years. That is why we consider it important that, despite all the difficulties, at least that plus 10 percent be there. And you didn't have such a choice of values when you were in government, because you took it from, among other things, teachers who made it the easiest. It wasn't about how much more we give to who during your crisis management to somehow get through the hard years, it was about how much they're taking away from you to get through those years politically through government. You have taken me away from people for their own political survival, you have taken me away from teachers to keep the balance of the budget somewhat, and at least you will pull that cycle out until the end of the cycle and sit in the government with Ferenc Gyurcsány at the top. That's why it wasn't a big price for you to take from teachers, pensioners, a lot of others. However, we said that they should be helped, so we decided to raise wages, and that is why we also decided that in the case of school directors a high wage increase was made a few years ago. What I'm saying is, both on teacher's day and before that, teachers can count on what this government can do for them to do for them. As a matter of fact, honourable Member, I believe that Sándor Pintér's ability to assert his interests has been proven since 1998, so I trust that in the next period the interests of teachers will also be demonstrated. [[Moraj from the benches of the opposition. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] You'll be able to represent him well. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-05-23-16	Now it's time for Momentum's representative, Ferenc Gelencsér. I give you the floor, please.
u2022-05-23-17	Mr. Speaker, Dear House, Today is three weeks since I'm a congressman. [[Congrats from the Fidesz ranks: Congratulations!]] And if I had to sum up the last three weeks in one word, that would be: [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition. Bence Rétvári: Is the situation so bad in the Momentum?]] I'm saying this because we're sitting here, where the greats of our nation were sitting, and I don't see any meaningful professional debate about the nation's future. The lack of this is not due to intellectual decadence, because there are also extremely well-educated government representatives here. [[Defiance from the opposition's benches.]] The fact that Tibor Navracsics or representatives of Balázs Orbán are expanding the ranks of the educated is beyond discussion. [[Bence Rétvári: Oops, oops!]] Therefore, their responsibility on this issue is much greater. You will not be excused by the possibility of non-knowledge, the knowledge of what is going on in this country and what is going on in this building. [[Bence Rétvári: How modestly you start your speech! Humility!]] Much worse than an intellectual deficit [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] the moral deficit. For three weeks, I have been hearing from my pro-government colleagues that I am an agent of a background power organization led by a Gyurcsány-Soros-Brussels triangle. [[Bence Rétvári: And what is the truth?]] Ladies and gentlemen, My great-grandfathers fought in the First World War, one was a knight, and the other was a lieutenant in the 83 Imperial and Royal Infantry. My grandfather was a professional soldier in World War II, and my father was a founding member of the MDF. [[Bence Rétvári: The apple fell far from the tree!]] For generations, my family fought for this country and fought for this nation. I will continue this tradition within the walls of this House, but at least I would continue to do so if my fellow members of the Government could give room for meaningful dialogue. In 2010, you were awarded two-thirds of a real fair election, including by my vote, because you promised to put an end to the moral decade before 2010. For the fourth time, you have had a historic opportunity to lead this country in the right direction, and you are not doing so. Fortunately, our generation no longer has to fight great wars, just like our great-grandparents, although we can no longer be so sure of the situation in Ukraine. You're not busy building the country during a 10-year-old economy, you're constantly making imaginary enemies. Enemy is a European capital, enemies are the decision-making bodies where their own ministers and prime minister members are enemies of a 91-year-old Hungarian-born businessman who did not, by the way, babysit at the formation of your party. It's an enemy to anyone who has a different idea of this country than you do. To quote a classic, everyone here who's with me and not Stephen is a pagan. What you do not realize, my honourable pro-government colleagues, is that in the system of great national cooperation, the nation's most important pillar, the family, is being lifted. Families are poisoned by the political communication you've been operating on for 12 years. This communication is like rust: it kills slowly. I've been hearing for three weeks now that we're either the new SDS or communists or traitors. [[Bence Rétvári: That's what Márki-Zay said about you!]] I would like to pay tribute to the fact that we can be joined by a new SZDSZ, among you sitting among the old, Szilárd Németh, for example, was a founding member of the SZDSZ in Csepel. I would also respectfully note that in your benches, there are more former MSZMP members than the entire Momentum fraction. If your historical knowledge had faded, I'd like to freshen it up a bit. [[Bence Rétvári: What a peaceful tone you have!]] The sole real purpose of the establishment of the MSZMP was to legitimise the 56 occupation. Are we the traitors of this nation now? Well, it's no wonder they haven't wanted to release the agent files in 30 years. You are on a moral basis of granite strength such as the Fundamental Law, which you intend to amend for the 10th time. Ladies and gentlemen, For 16 years, this nation has been forced to watch and listen to two former KIS Secretarys constantly fighting. I'm sorry, but this is so boring. You should be kind enough to use this energy to build the country, because in this construction, you can count on us to build the country, and I can promise you that. I don't care about who's party sympathy or who's party member. [[Grumbles and interruptions from the ranks of Fidesz, among them: Wow! Bence Rétvári: That's why you've been personal, isn't it?]] Or who was a member of which party. I don't care! [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] If you have a good idea [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] that will lead this nation forward, that will build this country, we will be happy to support [[Bence Rétvári: That's why you left, isn't it? Exodus is the basis for dialogue.]] but, above all, substantive and professional debates; and [[The president's ringing again.]] the need to pay attention to each other. Thank you. [[13.50]]
u2022-05-23-18	Here you go. Mr. Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2022-05-23-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I am pleased that you are involved in Parliament's work. I'm saying this separately because a few weeks ago, your party couldn't even decide if they'd be involved in this job. They made all kinds of demands in order to decide to sit here and do their job, a few days after they asked their own voters to be allowed to work here in Parliament. So congratulations on your representativeship. I am pleased that they are finally choosing the way to work in Parliament. So don't wait for a round of applause on your own, because that's what everyone who's been elected is supposed to do. As far as his record is concerned, he referred to a few things. As I understand it, you attribute some kind of binding power to your father's politicalism in the MDF. Of course, we can ask you what you're doing in the Momentum, which has made an alliance with the post-communists. But that's for you to decide. If you had any expectations about style, I'd tell you one thing. Your party was actively involved, for example, in distributing the O1G message. At the time, they weren't so sensitive to this type of style. [[Bence Rétvári: It's part of the dialogue!]] It wasn't our representatives, it was your representative who broke into an editorial when he didn't agree with a letter. [[Bence Rétvári: It was just a conversation!]] It wasn't our representatives who threw smoke grenades at the police. It was one of your representatives. So if you have any expectations about style, then I would like to ask that you first enforce it against your own representatives. As far as their policies are concerned, we do not expect that if, for example, millions of Hungarians have a dream about, say, the Olympics, and you crush it, we do not know what request [[David Bedő: We wanted a vote!]] Then we'll leave it at that. [[Intruders from the pro-government benches: That's right!]] They do not expect that if they campaign alongside Romanian parties in Transylvania with a Hungarian party starting, we will leave it without a word! They don't even expect us to say that if, don't give it to me, they'd confuse the solar panel with the nuclear power plant, we'd leave it alone. So we're gonna have debates, we're not gonna agree on everything, but I'm glad they're at least involved in the work. As regards the involvement of the President of DK, why this should be discussed: I think that from this point of view an article published last week is very instructive, perhaps published on Telex, which tells us everything about their campaign and puts what you said in a completely different light. For example, we already know that there has been a negotiation of the division of constituencies with the bazaar markers. Your party was involved in this. So much for how serious they were about the primary. We have learned that the company Datadat has actively participated in the left-wing campaign, which I am bringing up because it is suspected that hundreds of thousands of Hungarian citizens may have had their personal data transferred abroad. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Russian hackers who go in and out of the State Department!]] And then send them meaningless messages. The most educational parts of the article are about left-wing power, because it shows that you may not like it, but it shows what we said months ago that Ferenc Gyurcsány is giving the beat on the left. Maybe you didn't say Gyurcsány-show, because this article says, for example, that it's about the senior party president, the point is the same:. Because, for example, as reported, he told Péter Márki-Zay, so that he could not have a faction, as he does not now. He was the one who brought down Gergely Christmas, and here he used a B-word because he brought Peter Márki-Zay to you. It was also written that it was Ferenc Gyurcsány who excluded Péter Márki-Zay from the signed group of party presidents, their candidate for Prime Minister, the man who was recommended to the attention of the entire country a few days ago, as he would lead this country. For me, the most shocking thing about it was how they misdirected their Prime Minister's candidate. For example, they didn't scatter the campaign paper that their candidate for Prime Minister approved in the country. And when he went to forums, they put a different newspaper in front of him in order to think they were spreading it. This tells us all about how they feel about camaraderie and belonging to the community. They'll even stab him in the back who would be their own leader. We acknowledge that this is your business, but the consequences of this, I would like to ask you not to blame us. Looking at these reports, for example, this article, reading through, listening a little quietly and in fear, we ask what would have happened if this team had been given the opportunity to govern Hungary. It's better not to even think about it. Fortunately, the Hungarians saw what was going on. The power belongs to the people, they are right about that, and for the longest time they have given red cards to the left, but I am glad that they are involved in Parliament's work. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-05-23-20	Now it's James Peter's turn. I give you the floor.
u2022-05-23-21	Thank you for the floor. Dear fellow Members, You know, the truth is also very important because anyone who doesn't know the truth, who receives incorrect information, tends to make false decisions. Well, that's exactly what happened to you. You believed the government lie that today an average Hungarian employee earns more than half a million forints a month. You believed that the Hungarians were doing so well, and therefore you thought that they could be burdened to death, that they could be taxed to death. They thought that almost half of their salary could be taken away, that they could be paid for 480 petrol, 27 percent VAT, and that if the Hungarian people look so good, they would be able to pay for the ever-expensive food, there would be no need for government intervention here. Just so you know, fellow Members, the price of flour has increased by 25 percent in the last year, the price of pasta, eggs, tomatoes and coffee has increased by more than 50 percent. Over 50 percent, and the pay is 10 percent! The inflation took him away. Fellow Members, the fact is that while you live in luxury, life is becoming a luxury for the average Hungarian. Of course, you can blame the price on everything, you can say that Brussels is the fault of the European Union and the opposition, and war is the fault, you can point to someone else. But what if, for once in your life, they weren't pointing at anything else, they were starting to act? Let's say you could try to get to know the Hungarian reality in the first place. Go out with the people. [[Bence Rétvári: We walk without bodyguards!]] , talk to them, ask them how they are, how they live, what they live on, it is true that in Borsod, Szabolcs, Nógrád, Somogy, an average Hungarian worker earns more than half a million forints a month! Why don't you ask them, see if Rogan's the only one who made this up, and you guys ate it up? Over the past few years, I have held street forums in hundreds of settlements in the last few months, talking to thousands of people, asking them how they live. [[Zsolt Nitrai: Nice to meet you!]] You know, they didn't report loyalty, but good life, they didn't report that they were already earning more than half a million forints, but they said that poverty was increasing, there was an increasing lack of prospects. These good Hungarian people have reported that it is important to save money on milk and bread in many places, that the question is not to buy milk 1.5 or 2.8, but to buy milk at all. Colleagues, go talk to the people, if you have the courage. If not, at least browse the tax authority's data series, it will also bring you closer to the truth, the reality. The reality is that currently nearly half the Hungarians bring home less than 160 thousand forints a month. You know, this is when the knife opens in my pocket; when Uncle Laci says things like raising the wages of teachers to a minimum, a starting teacher raises our child for 160,000 forints a month. An average high-end wooden leg brings home millions of dollars a month with Tao money, public money. Should the educator settle for 160,000 forints a month? ! Yes, fellow Members, that is exactly what the Hungarian future is worth to you: 160 thousand forints a month. Let's say the security of the country isn't worth much more when the eyes of a beginner police officer are spotted with less than 200,000 forints a month. The other day, I was talking to a soldier, and he said that after 12 years of service, he was protecting his country for HUF 209 thousand a month. Shame! Now, fellow Members, now that you are a little closer to the Hungarian reality, I ask you: if the average Hungarian worker does not earn half a million forints a month, as you thought, but only 160,000 or 200,000, do you think that it is possible to charge him to death, to tax him to death? Can these people pay for 480 petrol, 27 percent VAT? Can you buy lightly expensive food, vegetables and fruit? The answer is no. Now, in the light of this truth and in your possession, make the right decisions, stop profiting on the Hungarian people, and do not want to pull off a 20th skin! With regard to fuel, taxes on petrol and gas oil, whether excise duty or sales tax, should be radically reduced. Half the 480 fuel price is still taxing, fellow Members. Don't make a profit on the drivers, the carriers, the freight forwarders, because everyone feels the effect. With regard to basic foods, VAT must be released at the same time, the tax on the poor must be released, which is currently being paid by everyone, the poorest pensioner, at every shopping. Let him go! The official price here is low. It's not enough to freeze the price of chicken butt-back and tell the shopkeeper to swallow the loss. Don't look in the shopkeeper's pocket, go through their own. Release the basic food tax, don't take 27 percent, 18 percent, or 5 percent. I want you to give up this income. Yeah, I know, it's gonna get a lot less for stadiums and saloons, and who knows what kind of bullshit, but there's more left in people's pockets, and that's the most important thing. Let us leave more money in the pockets of the Hungarian people so that they can survive the critical time ahead of us! If Hungary is the first for you and not for yourself, then they will do it without a word. Let's get started. I want the thieves to pay me. Prosperity for all Hungarians! [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]] [[14.00]]
u2022-05-23-22	Mr. Csaba Dömötör has the floor again.
u2022-05-23-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Team Leader continues as if nothing had happened. [[Peter James: The Gyurcsány disc is coming!]] Like Jobbik didn't run into a giant...
u2022-05-23-24	Congressman, you don't have the floor, in case you haven't noticed. Relax.
u2022-05-23-25	...to a failed outcome. It is in his mind whether he will continue to do so in the future. In any case, we are pleased that a month and a half after the election, you will take the liberty of speaking here in Parliament. We have something to talk about. It is also because the livelihoods of Hungarians and European citizens are now fundamentally influenced by a war situation. And even before the war broke out, we saw a huge wave of price increases, and even before the war broke out, energy prices increased by more than 20 percent not in Hungary, but throughout Europe, and if there is a misguided sanctions policy, it can only put a shovel on this. To say the figures: energy prices have increased by more than 40 percent, this is already the post-war situation in Europe compared to a year ago, and this affects the margins of all European countries. So it is in our common interest not to put in place measures which, by the way, hurt us more than we can accuse Russia of military aggression. Just to give you a warning: Russia made the amount of energy from energy sources by April last year. So these sanctions don't hurt them that much, and we really do. Therefore, our most important task now is not to impose sanctions that brutally hurt the entire European economy and Hungary in it. It's self-evident for us, but not for others. For example, the Dutch Prime Minister said that freedom has a price to pay, and the Italian Prime Minister believes that it is necessary to decide whether we want peace or air conditioning. This is a wrong approach, we think, because we have to fight for peace without shooting ourselves in the leg economically, because if we shoot him in the leg, we will not have the strength to contribute to peace. Therefore, under these circumstances, and here, I would like to refer you back to your wishes, our most important task is to protect Hungarian families, and if you say that nothing has happened, it is simply not true. We've got a interest stop, a gas stop, we've got to keep the rent cut, we've got a food price stop, and the left didn't support them, including Jobbik. Just to tell you one thing: you referred to the petrol price here, you had a written proposal for a 500 forint petrol price, and you now demand that it be much lower. Well, they don't take their own suggestions seriously. As in the past, they did not support the family tax refund, the reduction in property and the retirement of the 13th month pension. Their souls are on it, Mr. Group Leader, but after that, I am asking you to stop waving all kinds of food around the House. Let's separate the VAT cuts, please, listen. We have voted on this in this House many times and you have not supported it. 2014 pig VAT reduction: Jobbik did not support it, as the whole left did not support it. 2015 large animal VAT reduction: Jobbik voted against. 2017, reduction of poultry and egg VAT: the whole left did not support it. The VAT on fresh milk and UHT milk also decreased, and we voted on it in 2017 and 2019. What happened, Mr. Group Leader? What happened? The Jobbik didn't support it. At least five times you did not support our tax reduction proposal, then comes Peter James, demanding it. If there was a flag for frivolity, it would fly somewhere above the Jobbik fraction. By the way, you said this weekend after sending an enforcer to one of my fellow Members that the real enforcer would be the people. I agree with that, and in April they decided what they wanted: they voted you out, and as a result, Jobbik's faction dropped to almost a third. This tone of voice, provocation policy, threats, and especially the fact that they joined forces as national parties with the left. Power is for the people, failure is for Jobbik, responsibility is for you personally. I would like to say one more thing: we are still waiting for you to be informed about the event at which a better person was reported to have been raped. In this case, there were two ways to talk: together and back. So, we're still waiting for your detailed information, as far as we know, you were present at this event. Be brave in that, Your Honour, not in the courtroom threats. I wish you all the strength to do this. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-05-23-26	Next up is István Simicskó, head of the KDNP faction. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2022-05-23-27	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! States are faced with a serious system of tasks, and this system of tasks, which consists of state tasks, has been the case in the past, and so is the case in the present case for modern states, must maintain and operate three classic functions, three classic functions. It is very important that an appropriate distribution system is in place, so that an allocation function is performed by the State, using resources for Community purposes. It is important that the so-called allocation function also works, and this is the task system, which consists in the fact that what the private sector cannot carry out is carried out by the state for the benefit of the community, i.e. supporting roads, public transport, scientific research, and the rest, and so on. And perhaps the most important thing is the so-called stabilisation function, stabilisation function. This consists primarily of order, internal order, predictability, predictable laws, an appropriate environment, and the state guarantees external security. The completion of these three tasks is, of course, a challenge for all states, especially in times of crises, threats and threats. However, within the stabilisation function, we must basically talk about the creation of the functioning of the economy, its security, predictability, and the creation of rules to encourage growth which, by the way, help the economy of that State to be competitive, while at the same time striving for full employment. Therefore, they are all included in the objectives of the Fidesz-KDNP government. In recent times, in times of danger and challenges, be it the migration crisis, be it the pandemic, be it the war in our neighbourhood, the Russian-Ukrainian war and its negative economic, financial and energy security issues, the Hungarian government has passed a good test. We can say that the Hungarian economy is crisis-resistant, and not just because, by the way, the Hungarian government and the Ministry of Finance, under the leadership of Mihály Varga and, of course, under the leadership of State Secretary András Tállai, has traditionally delivered good results and good indicators. We now see that, based on the economic performance of the first quarter, the growth of the Hungarian economy, the growth of the gross domestic product, is 8.2 percent, and there is a very serious achievement. I would like to say that the average in the European Union is 5.2, so the performance of the Hungarian economy is far above the average of the European Union. We are at the forefront, and we are currently in the fifth place of the 27 Member States. We prevent very large countries, Italy, Spain, Germany, but also Slovakia or the Czech Republic in the region. So there's a lot of performance behind this job. I would just like to point out that from 1950 to 1960, after the Second World War, Adenauer led Germany and, of course, of course, Ludwig Erhard, Minister of Economy, because of the performance of the social market economy, every year, for ten years, the economic growth of Germany was around 8 percent. So this is the performance that Hungary is now able to achieve in such bad circumstances, in the face of such challenges and dangers and crises and war. So all my compliments are to the Hungarian Government and, of course, to the Hungarian people and Hungarian businesses, because behind this there is their work, their desire to undertake, their performance, their diligence, their creativity, the innovation that the Hungarian people have always involved in the survival of crisis situations. Ladies and gentlemen, It is important that this clear strategy, this conscious economic policy, continues to prevail, and that a stable environment gives the potential for good planning. Of course, left-wing crisis management does not know such methods. This is what we have seen, if we just go back a bit in time, during the time of the Bokros package, or even in view of the constraints of the Bajnai-Gyurcsány governments, these methods have always been used. On the other hand, the Fidesz-KDNP government has always made opportunities for Hungarian people and Hungarian businesses in times of crisis, and is trying to create an appropriate environment. I have to say that the human-centred economic policy, which means broadening family support, has sought to create and maintain the achievement of the reduction of the rent, at all times to create full employment, all of which must be protected against all dangers. [[14.10]] The damage caused by the war is not to be paid by the Hungarian people. The KDNP faction continues to support the government's economic policy, which protects Hungarian people and Hungarian businesses from the dangers and challenges of our time. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-05-23-28	In response, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, has the floor.
u2022-05-23-29	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, To understand where these successes come from, we have to look back over the last ten years and say that one of the most successful decades of Hungarian economic history is behind us, because we remember well that we have been able, in essence, to rise from the bankruptcy of Hungary, the Hungarian economy to the top of the European Union's ranking. In Hungarian, we have become a model country today from the European Union's disgrace stage, which is now recognised in Europe, but in the whole world. Let us begin by meeting the promise of one million jobs, with the number of employees rising from 3.7 million to 4.7 million. The employment rate improved today from 57 percent in 2010 to 74 percent at the end of the European Union ranking. The unemployment rate at that time was 12 per cent, today it is below 4 per cent, which is one of the most favourable figures in Europe as well. Then we managed to reduce public debt, as we improved it from 82 percent of GDP to 65 percent. Unfortunately, the increase in crisis budget expenditure caused by the corona virus epidemic, which is not a Hungarian example, as this is true for Europe as a whole, has increased debt, but it is still well below 80%: 76.8 percent. For the record, the EU average is above 90%. But we also managed to change the composition of debt financing in a positive direction, as the proportion of retail financing before 2010 was 3 per cent, which is now 25 per cent. Foreigners then had 60 percent of public debt financing, which was reduced to 30 percent. Public wealth increased, from HUF 11 000 billion to HUF 19 000 billion, and the savings of families increased from 20,000 billion to 60,000 billion. It is very important that the highest investment rate in Hungary is also the EU comparison. That's 27 percent. Perhaps this is the basis, one of the most important foundations, of the economic growth that Mr. Group leader has listed here. It is very important to have jobs, to increase the number of jobs. It is important to have continuous investments, new investments that meet the technological challenge, and it is very important to have a stable budget that can reduce the budget deficit and reduce the level of public debt. Meanwhile, what Mr. Group Leader has mentioned, people, families, workers must also be better. Real wages have increased by 70 percent over the last decade. This includes the government's tax reduction policy, since the employer's tax rate in 2009 was 33.5 percent, today 13 percent. The corporate tax rate was 20 percent, today it's 9 percent. In the last 11 years, personal income tax has decreased from 36 percent to 15 percent, which is also outstanding in Europe, among the first. It is therefore very important that the pace of economic growth is maintained in Hungary. Therefore, in the coming years, the government must plan to maintain the growth of the Hungarian economy. On the basis of the convergence programme, over the next four years, we plan to increase the economy by more than 4 percent, protect families, protect the value of pensions, protect the tax reduction and continue and maintain the reduction of the rent. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-05-23-30	Last in line, I give the floor to Congressman Erik Bánki, on behalf of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2022-05-23-31	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary has no compromise in the enforcement of national interest and self-defence. In recent years, there have been huge changes in the world. This was the outbreak of the corona virus, the economic crisis, and then the Ukrainian war. A new order is emerging in the world economy and in world politics, and so far the policy needs to be re-evaluated. Hungary's response to the new situation is as follows. Self-defense and national interests are at the top, and there is no compromise in this. We will follow the national interest in protecting our security, whether it is our physical, economic or energy security, the protection of families or homes. The armed conflict in neighbouring Ukraine poses a serious security risk to our country, so it is important that peace return to our region as soon as possible. We condemn military aggression, help the victims, help the people who were attacked. But we will not let them bring us into the war, or make the Hungarians pay the price of the war. The prolonged war and the energy sanctions packages in Brussels can cause an energy crisis throughout Europe. The Hungarian people, the Hungarian families, are protected by the cuts introduced by the civil government, but with the introduction of the oil embargo it would be impossible to obtain the oil needed for Hungary's operation. Ensuring energy supply and maintaining the cost reduction remains our priority. The condition is that there should be oil, natural gas, and Brussels should not adopt a sanction package that will put the gate in front of the possibility of import. We will not vote in favour of any measures that threaten our country's energy supply. This is not a political issue, but a matter of security of supply. The oil embargo is a red line for us. It would have serious consequences in Hungary, which would boost fuel prices in addition to supply problems: it would result in a gas price of 700 forints and 800 forints, as well as a nuclear bomb on the Hungarian economy. We cannot and will not allow the price of war to be paid by the Hungarian people. In contrast to us, however, the left has a very different opinion about the overhead and energy policy. During the campaign, the idea of reducing the rent was to use less water, to bathe less, so that the Hungarian people could save money on the copper. Because a left-wing government considers the reduction to be a wrong, wrong measure and intends to abolish it. We have now heard a new idea from their former Prime Minister candidate, which is the following: the Hungarians rinse the toilet with bath water. Ladies and gentlemen, These are not new sentences, as we can remember the previous ideas and sentences of the left regarding the reduction of the rent, which was emphasised in the campaign and which said so. What a stupid thing it was to cut the rent like that back in the day! How can you cut the rent? , less water to be used, less water to bathe, less electricity to be used, less gas to be used. The problem with these irresponsible steps has been said by their former Prime Minister's candidate, such as the reduction of the rent, that these are very easy to promise, give, and then extremely difficult to eliminate. The Hungarian left also shares the same position on fuel prices when it is proposed that people replace their existing cars with smaller ones as a solution. Contrary to the outrageous statements and suggestions of the left, the civil government, my fellow Members, protects Hungarian families from the effects of war instead of words. For example, measures such as maintaining a reduction in overhead costs, a retail interest rate stop, a fuel price stop or a food price stop. We are now asking the left to take the side of Brussels, not to stand on the side of Brussels, but to finally look at the interests of Hungary, to look at the interests of the Hungarian people and to support the government in maintaining the reduction of the rent and in adopting our proposals in support of curbing inflation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[14.20]]
u2022-05-23-32	I give the floor to Secretary Tamás Menczer. Here you go.
u2022-05-23-33	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, First of all, let me say a few words about what the utilities look like in Europe today. In Belgium, the price of electricity has increased by 100 percent in recent months, thus doubling; the price of gas has increased by 230 percent, so the price has more than tripled. Then let's watch Holland. The price of electricity increased by 50 percent, the price of natural gas increased by 100 percent. Look at the neighbouring Romania, our left-wing colleagues often mention it. In Romania the price of electricity increased by 60 percent, the price of gas increased by 75 percent, but there is also a service provider in Romania that increased the price of gas by 300 percent. Let's take a look at some northern countries. In Estonia the price of electricity increased by 120 percent, the price of gas increased by 240 percent. In Latvia, electricity prices increased by 300 percent, gas prices increased by 450 percent. In Lithuania, electricity prices increased by 250 percent and gas prices increased by 400 percent. So you can see, honourable Member, and honourable Members, that today the situation in Europe is that the overhead prices have doubled, tripled, and even paid four times the previous prices. On the other hand, in Hungary, the country's energy supply has been ensured, and we will also protect the reduction of the rent, as we have already protected it, in the future. Now, the proposal that Mr President spoke about, the Brussels oil embargo proposal, would indeed be a nuclear bomb for the Hungarian economy, and it would also create a bad situation, a catastrophic situation, without any proposal for a solution. Let me remind you that 65 percent of the Hungarian oil consumption is Russian oil, so it comes from Russia, 65 percent of the Hungarian oil consumption comes from there, and it is impossible to replace from one day to the next, and it is even impossible to replace in a short time. What would it take to replace the oil? We would need an investment of EUR 500-550 million in Hungarian oil refining technology, as it is currently able to process Russian oil, and we would need an investment of EUR 200 million on the Adriatic pipeline, where there is currently a capacity shortage, and in order to reach the right capacity, our Croatian friends would have to make an investment, so it is not up to us and it costs EUR 200 million. Thus, a total of EUR 750-800 million should be spent. And what would be the end result? The huge increase in fuel prices would be 700-800 forints for petrol and gas oil after we have spent 700 million euros. Of course, Hungarian families must be protected from this, and, as you said, we cannot allow the Hungarian people to pay the price of the war. Therefore, the Hungarian Government has made two proposals. One is that if you want to go this way in Brussels, we need a EUR 15-18 billion amount to transform the Hungarian energy sector and thus remove this burden from the Hungarian people. However, not surprisingly, the current negotiations in Brussels do not show that they want to pay us EUR 15-18 billion. If this is not the case, or I do not want to make this available to us, then the Hungarian proposal is to impose sanctions on the maritime transport of crude oil and not on fixed-line transport, so it would not affect us, we do not have an alternative, we do not have a coast. Although you've been careful with these sentences, I hope I've not offended anyone, and no one gets the wrong idea, but we're still on the line. Let me also say, Mr House, honourable Member, that this is therefore the government's policy, and indeed, as you have mentioned, we are guided and guided by the national interest, the representation of Hungarian interest, and this is always the first place. On the other hand, we can see that the Hungarian left in the campaign, for example, said by the Prime Minister's candidate that they would support sanctions that would hurt Hungary and would be extremely harmful to the Hungarian economy. For example, Congressman Kocsis-Cake also said that Russian raw materials and energy sources should be closed for Hungary. We have not heard an apology or separation from anyone today. Neither did leader James say that they were wrong, nor did the gentleman in the moment say that they were wrong. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and no one else has said that they finally want to represent the interests of Hungary, but we will continue to do so. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-05-23-34	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2022-05-23-35	Dear Parliament, Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; János Bencze, Jobbik; László Varju, DK; Zoltán Varga, DK; Balázs Barkóczi, DK; Péter Ovádi, Fidesz; Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Zoltán Sas, Jobbik; Dávid Dócs, Mi Hazank; István Apáti, Mi Hazank. He applied for the speech before the agenda tomorrow: Antal Csárdi, LMP; Rebecca Szabó, Dialogue; László Toroczkai, Mi Hazank; Sándor Szabó, MSZP; András Fekete-Győr, Momentum; Brenner Koloman, Jobbik; László Szászfalvi, KDNP; Balázs Győrffy, Fidesz. He applied for a speech after the agenda tomorrow: Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik; Előd Novák, Mi Hazank; Péter Balassa, Jobbik.
u2022-05-23-36	Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear House, In view of the fact that the factions did not ask for any interpellation, immediate question or question, they would not be discussed at this meeting. Discussions are now taking place between the Commission's reports and the summarised amendments. [[Noise.]] In order to restore the order and silence needed to begin this, I order a break of about 15 seconds. I'm gonna need you to evacuate everyone who has no business here. (Sunning: 14.27 14.29) President: László Fat Note: Dr. Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Szűcs)
u2022-05-23-37	Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. The Commission's reports on the 10th amendment of the Hungarian Fundamental Law and the discussion of the summary amendment follow. The government referral is T/25. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Péter Ovadi, rapporteur of the committee. You have a 15-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2022-05-23-38	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you very much for the floor. I would like to inform you that, at the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 19 May 2022, the T/25 submitted an amendment to the 10th Hungarian Fundamental Law. Bill No. 1. [[14.30]] The summary amendment proposal and the summary report were adopted by 27 votes in favour on the basis of an exceptional procedure, 6 votes against and no abstentions. Dear House, There's a war going on in the neighborhood of our country. The Russian-Ukrainian armed conflict has aroused the interest of all our countrymen, as it has resulted in a humanitarian crisis that has not been experienced since World War II and has also led to major changes in the world economy. We are all concerned about following the events day by day. Unfortunately, the negative consequences of the war have a direct impact on everyone's lives, they are felt by each Hungarian. All we need to think about is the rising world energy prices, the economic recession, the supply disruptions in the food industry, or other market disturbances. It is Hungary's responsibility to provide for those fleeing war, to minimise the economic damage caused by the war, and to protect Hungarian people to the fullest extent possible from adverse effects on the economy. It is also a well-known fact, and I would like to point out that Hungary has adopted most of the refugees from Ukraine as a proportion of the population of the Member States of the European Union. It is well known that we Hungarians always help those in trouble, especially when they live next door. The exemplary cooperation, proper care and accommodation of refugees are the common merit of all Hungarians. Special thanks have been given to volunteers, law enforcement and defence workers, who show tireless support for refugees from day to day. Ladies and gentlemen, To deal with the humanitarian disaster and to avoid the consequences of reorganising international economic changes, our country must ensure that effective and rapid national responses are developed. On 3 April, the Hungarians made a clear and unquestioned stand in favour of staying out of this armed conflict, and we cannot allow the price of the war to be paid by the Hungarians. While there are states that think differently on this issue, Hungary and the Hungarians remain the first countries to protect themselves. We must therefore protect the Hungarians, but this requires effective and swift decision-making. In order to guarantee this, the fundamental law amendment before us will therefore be tabled. (In the notary seat Dr. Lajos Szűcs Replaced by Dr. Winner Vinnai.) I would like to remind all of us that the Crown Virus pandemic has also shown that the instruments of emergency legal order are the most appropriate to address and address the challenges arising from an emergency, and it is therefore the proposal before us that gives the government the opportunity to have the full toolbox of the special legal order available. Dear Parliament, The Fundamental Law is the basis of Hungary's legal order, an alliance between the past, the present and the Hungarians of the future. The Fundamental Law is a living framework that protects the identity of Hungarians, expresses their value system, embodies their will, and defines the most fundamental forms of their existence under public law. I therefore welcome the fact that the tenth amendment of the Fundamental Law also aims to ensure the safety of our country and our families. The amendment of the basic law on the House's table ensures that the war situation in the neighbouring country or the humanitarian disaster, as well as the removal of its consequences, can provide a legal basis for declaring an emergency. However, it should be noted that the current amendment does not alter the constitutional principle that the publication of a special legal order is possible only if events in neighbouring countries have such a serious economic or other impact in Hungary and that the risk of such serious effects is realistic. Ladies and gentlemen, We must act in accordance with the current national interest. I can only stress that it doesn't matter what path we take, because in the dangerous decade ahead, we have to make decisions that protect Hungary from external influences and the adverse consequences of the economic recession. In view of this, the proposed legislation should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-05-23-39	Dear Parliament, Now I'm going to ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[For signal:]] No wish, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, The designated Judicial Committee did not draft a rapporteur, so now it is time for the speakers to be announced. I give the floor to Imre Ritter, a German national representative, the rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary related to the debate, who presents the first sentences of his speech in ethnic language and then translates them into Hungarian. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2022-05-23-40	Thank you very much. Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich unsere Meinung, bezüglich des Gesetzesvorschlags mit Titel T/25, force field. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me to express our opinion on T/25 on the 10th amendment of the Fundamental Law of Hungary. About the bill No. 1. The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary discussed the bill on the agenda at its meeting on 18 May 2022 and agreed not to make an amendment, and therefore the Committee did not submit an amendment closing a detailed debate. T/26 of the present bill. During its general debate with the legislative proposal No. 13, I referred to those parts of the Fundamental Law which concern nationalities native to Hungary and which concern them. I did this for a good reason because at the beginning of the third ethnic cycle, I thought it was important to give these quotes literally, because more new parties and more new Members have joined and started their work in the Hungarian Parliament. I respectfully ask that what has been said, including the parts of the Fundamental Law that concern nationalities, be taken into account at all times and taken into account in their work. After all, briefly the proposal for a specific amendment of the law. At the first meeting of the cycle, the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities discussed the tenth amendment of the Fundamental Law and the amendment of the Disaster Protection Act. The two legislative proposals are essentially the same. T/26. Amendment 3 to the amendment of the Fundamental Law, supplementing this T/25. It is intended to facilitate and serve the provisions of the legislative proposal No. In Article 53 (1) of the Fundamental Law, the term "the Government" shall be added to the text of the elemental blow to the security of life and property by means of an armed conflict, a war situation or a humanitarian disaster in the neighbouring country. We believe that, in the event of such a situation, the decision of the current government must meet at least two fundamental aspects: on the one hand, it must be a quick decision and, on the other hand, it must be a good decision. The requirement for a good decision depends on the ability and discretion of the current government, which cannot be guaranteed by legislation. However, the possibility of a quick decision depends primarily on the legislative environment, which can be guaranteed by this supplement to the Fundamental Law. The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary is therefore the T/25. It agrees with the bill on the 10th amendment of the Hungarian Fundamental Law and proposes its adoption to the Parliament. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit! [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-05-23-41	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I now give the floor to Miklós Dawn.
u2022-05-23-42	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Two weeks ago, we discussed the tenth amendment of the Fundamental Law. Many counter-arguments were expressed in the debate on behalf of the Momentum, which I do not want to present in detail now, only in terms of terms. Firstly, first of all, it is not a time for power-building, but a time for inflation management, economic crisis management, management of insecurity. [[14.40]] Instead, we see that they are dealing with the extension and expansion of regulation governance, which in itself does not help Hungarian people. This is not what the Hungarian people want, this is not what they need, but security and a safe living. We have also explained our professional criticisms as to why this proposal is unnecessary, how it gives rise to abuse, and therefore, in the end, it is an anti-democratic blank cheque to the government. You know perfectly well that there is no self-limitation in the Fundamental Law in this regard. That doesn't mean you won't vote for it. It's not up to today's debate to vote that you're in charge. It seems that during the epidemic, the Prime Minister and his closest circles have become accustomed to not counting on their own partymates when it comes to matters of the fate of the country. The members of the government would be most pleased if they could stay in Carmelita, and they did not have to come down to the people or even the Members of Parliament to discuss Hungary's most important issues. We see how this works. If better, Gergely Gulyás informs us on a Government Info, in worse cases we need to hear from the Hungarian Gazette about what will happen. In fact, even worse, Gergely Gulyás informs us about something at the Government Info, but then we learn about something else in the Hungarian Gazette. That's what's been going on in the last two years, that's what we've seen from you under the heading of regulation governance, and you're preparing to continue this endlessly in the future. If you really wanted to prolong the rule of law because of the war, then you would have done it on the first day of the war or perhaps even on the tenth day of the war. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Before the election?]] Now, ladies and gentlemen, this is the 88th day of the war on May 23. Anyone who takes so long to recognize a possible real emergency is either unfit for government or does so for self-interest, and either way, we, the politicians of the Momentum, are not going to support it. Let us say it in black and white: the power of Fidesz is the first in the new parliamentary season, that is what this fundamental law amendment is about, and therefore we cannot support it with a clear conscience. Thank you for your attention.
u2022-05-23-43	I ask you, in the remaining timeframes, someone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. I don't see any contact. [[For signal:]] Excuse me. I give the floor to Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc KDNP.
u2022-05-23-44	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to point out to the honourable Member that the Hungarian people know exactly what they want, and they said this on 3 April, with a huge majority. They're not looking for you, that's for sure. What they want is peace and security, what they want is the development that we have seen in Hungary over the past 12 years as a result of the country-building work. If you, too, go to the country outside the Körút or out of the Mountains, you can see the progress that has been made in recent times. Mr Congressman, what the Hungarian people want is certainly not your speech, and certainly not your argument on governance. Thank God, thanks to the wisdom of the Hungarian people, you are as far away from, let's say, keeping a financial wallet in the Hungarian government. I think that Hungary is only the winner of this. But what I would like to say, honourable Member, is that it is usually you who make the accusations as to why we did not make the amendment to the basic law on the tenth day of the war. I would ask you how much trouble the united left would have caused if we thought we should amend the Fundamental Law three weeks before the election. You would have said that this is not democratic, that we will not have two thirds, that we will not be able to amend the Fundamental Law after the election, that this cannot be done to Hungary. Now you are asking us to account for why we tabled this amendment to the basic law on the 60th day of the war, honourable Member. The Hungarian people have given us the authority to represent peace and security. The Hungarian people have given us the authority to help those fleeing Ukraine in everything, but to protect our country and not to drift into this war. And the Hungarian people also gave us the authority to make decisions that do not make them pay the price of war. That is exactly what we are about to do, that is exactly what we will do, even if you are not on the side of the Hungarian people. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-05-23-45	I do not see any other candidates, so the debate is closed, honourable Members. I would like to ask the rapporteur if he would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Dr. Répássy Robert: No, thank you.]] Secretary of State does not wish to answer. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. It follows the 2011 CXXVIII on disaster management and the amendment of certain related laws. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. Government referral T/26. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[Dr. Répássy Robert: No. Thank you, Mr. President.]] Secretary of State says no. Dear House, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. Once again, I give the floor to Mr Imre Ritter, who wishes to speak as Chairman of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary. Here you go.
u2022-05-23-46	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich unsere Meinung, bezüglich des Gesetzesvorschlags mit Titel das Gesetz CXXVIII von 2011 über die Änderung Gesetze zur Katastropenverhütung und bestimmter, damit zusammenhängender Gesetze, mit Nr. T/26's force field. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me to express our opinion on the 2011 CXXVIII on disaster management and the amendment of certain related laws. T/26. About bill No. 1. The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary discussed the bill on the agenda at its meeting on 18 May 2022 and agreed not to make an amendment, and therefore the Committee did not submit an amendment closing a detailed debate. I presented our opinion on the previous legislative amendment proposal, and therefore the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary is CXXVIII of 2011 on the protection of disasters and the amendment of certain related laws. T/26. Agree with the bill and propose its adoption to the Parliament. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit! [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-05-23-47	Thank you, Mr. President. We will now be able to hold speeches by Members if there are any candidates. [[There's no candidate.]] From what I can see, there's no candidate. I would like to ask the rapporteur if he would like to give a summary speech. [[Dr. Répássy Robert: No. Thank you.]] He doesn't want to. Dear House, Decisions will also be taken on tomorrow's meeting. We now have the Commission's reports on regulatory issues related to the cessation of an emergency and the debate on the draft amending proposal. The government referral is T/27. It is also available on the parliamentary IT network. This proposal is also discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. First I give the floor to Péter Ovádi, rapporteur of the committee, within a maximum of 8 minutes. (Believe Dezső in the notary seat) Replaced by Sándor Szabó.)
u2022-05-23-48	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee, at its meeting on 19 May 2022, discussed the T/27 on emergency regulatory issues. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment and the summary report were adopted by 28 votes in favour on the basis of an exceptional procedure, 9 against and without abstentions. Dear House, We've left a time when we're trying to be human. The social and economic challenges caused by the corona virus epidemic not only put huge burdens on decision-makers, but also required great patience and discipline from all citizens. I think that we Hungarians have taken a good exam, and once again we have shown that if the problem knocks on our door, we can stick together. It is also worth recalling that the Hungarian Government acted in time and took the necessary protection measures in time. Hungary has successfully fought with one of Europe's most effective vaccination programmes against the corona virus pandemic, which now allows the government to eliminate the emergency. I consider it important to stress that the government's primary objective, as it has done so far, is to protect the lives and health of Hungarian people and to reduce economic damage and to preserve jobs. That is why the bill before us was drafted. [[14.50]] Dear Parliament, The fight against the spread of the coronal virus has so far posed an unprecedented challenge for the whole world, including our country. Traditional, common tools have proved inadequate in health and economic protection against the epidemic. The Government therefore decided to declare an emergency in accordance with Article 53 (1) of the Fundamental Law on 11 March 2020 in good time. However, according to the basic legislative standard, the government's emergency legislation could have remained in force for only 15 days. In order to continue the fight and to protect the health of citizens, it has proved necessary for the Parliament to continue to authorise the Government to establish it again, to maintain its regulations containing extraordinary measures in force if the Parliament could not meet due to the spread of the human epidemic. We can thank the good Lord for the fact that the legislation was able to complete his work. Thus, the Parliament, in accordance with its right under that law, is now withdrawing the authority given to the government. However, I would also like to stress that, while respecting the constitutional framework, the government has taken only measures under the extraordinary legal order which, in accordance with the constitutional requirements of necessity and proportionality, have proved essential to protect the whole of the Hungarian people and to overcome the negative economic challenges caused by the epidemic, and the Parliament has been able to fully exercise its powers of control over exceptional measures. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal on the House's table aims to lay the ground for the abolition of the special emergency legal order in view of the stabilisation of the epidemiological situation. Of course, we cannot go without saying about legal certainty as one of the most important cornerstones of the rule of law. The principle of legal certainty requires that the termination of an emergency and the expiry of emergency government regulations should not take place in the absence of appropriate transitional provisions being established. In view of the legal certainty and the legal requirements of the predictable regulatory environment, the purpose of the bill before us is also to regulate legal relations and expectations in the event of an emergency in such a way that the regulatory transition is clearly and predictablely ensured subject to the requirement of trust and protection, and that the regulatory environment remains unchanged in the law. In order to ensure legal certainty, it is therefore necessary to lay down these rules, since the termination of an emergency and the expiry of emergency government regulations cannot take place without the establishment of appropriate transitional provisions. Dear House, Please allow me, without the need for completeness, to highlight the main points of the draft on the House's table as an example. The purpose of the proposal submitted is also to grant the right to identify persons and bodies with other tasks in the system issuing an electronic death certificate with full function, as well as to ensure consistency, inter alia, with the emergency regulations for expired documents, so that the identity card, driving licence and passport which expired or expired between 11 March 2020 and 31 May 2022 will remain valid uniformly until 30 June 2022. The amendment of the law on the promotion of employment and the provision of the unemployed, as detailed in the bill, and its economic policy objective is to ensure that the jobs that are permanently vacant in Hungary are filled quickly, efficiently and transparently only with the assistance of reliable businesses from third countries. Dear Parliament, Finally, I would like to say that in the dangerous decade ahead of us, it will not matter what path we are going to take. For this reason, it is particularly important that the proposals aimed at protecting Hungary and guaranteeing its security should be supported as widely as possible by the Hungarian legislation, regardless of party standing. In view of what has been said, the proposal submitted should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-05-23-49	Dear House, Before I give the floor to Mr Arató, rapporteur for the committee's minority position, it is my duty to inform you that his representative is not in the room, so until he arrives, I will order a few minutes of technical break. Please don't go anywhere, or at least not far, because the Secretary of State is on his way. (Sunning: 14.55 15.04 President: László Fat Note: Dr. Winner Vinnai and Sándor Szabó)
u2022-05-23-50	Ladies and gentlemen, We'll get back to work. I very much welcome the Secretary of State for honoring the House with his presence. If you don't mind, I will save you a few embarrassing seconds while you apologize to my fellow Members for keeping them waiting in the debate. I hope this doesn't happen again in the next three or four years. I now give the floor to the rapporteur of the minority opinion, Gergely Arató.
u2022-05-23-51	Dear House, The fact is that my fellow Member, who spoke not so long ago, but not now, presented the majority opinion, said that the government's powers which it had received under the emergency legislation were only to the extent necessary and proportionate. I wish I did, but I don't. At least it is highly controversial that, among other things, this regulation and this issue, which was most debated at the Legislative Committee meeting, so the regulation that concerns sufficient service in the event of teachers' strike, was necessary for the purposes of the emergency. The trade unions and the opposition did not consider it necessary. And was it proportional? It was not proportionate, because because of its objective, it restricted a fundamental right, the right to strike. This is important because the majority of the Legislative Committee has committed the naughty nature of the regulation whose maintenance was not originally included in this bill, therefore, the restriction of the fundamental rights and the right to strike of teachers, because this means that it is impossible to impose conditions for sufficient services, so that it has been included in this bill by means of an own-initiative amendment on the Legislative Committee, in its proposal for an amendment to the Commission's amendment, before the final vote. Moreover, this proposal is more serious than the original regulation, because it also states that a teacher who does not take up work despite the employer's instructions is guilty of misconduct. This is obviously a response to the civil disobedience of teachers, to the practice of symbolically migrating from school to school, but they refused to work to protest against the withdrawal of their fundamental rights. (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.) I have to say that we have been arguing on the Legislative Committee about the legal consequences of this amendment, that they will only deprive these teachers of their monthly wages, or that they may lose their jobs, but that does not change the point. On the one hand, the proposal does not address the fundamental problem, the fact that the government does not consider teachers to be partners, does not negotiate with them in substance, and there are such terrible wages in education today that the shortage of teachers endangers all schools, all kindergartens, all institutional types and all settlements today. Even if we vote for this amendment, it does not make it more teachers, nor does it help that this proposal has come to us illegally bypassing the house rules and the legislative law. This proposal and the bill as a whole are therefore unacceptable. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-05-23-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Azbej Tristan, State Secretary, whether he would like to speak at this stage of the debate or at a later stage of the debate. [[Azbei Tristan: Later.]] Mr Secretary of State indicates that he intends to speak at a later stage in the debate. I would like to inform the Secretary of State that he will have a total time frame of 15 minutes for his speech, possible closing words and during the debate. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. I now give the floor to Mr József Szolga, rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, who will present the first sentences of his speech in the language of nationality, and then translate it into Hungarian. You have the floor.
u2022-05-23-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Poštovani Gospodine Predsjedniče! Dear House, Poštovani Dome! The Committee of Hungarian Nationalities at its meeting on 18 May 2022 T/27 of 2022 on regulatory issues related to emergency resolution It held a detailed debate on the whole of draft law No 1. As a related committee, the Rules of Procedure of the Decision are 44 and 45. In the light of the provisions of Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure, it stated that it had not taken a position on the proposed amendments, in line with previous practice, or that the Commission had not tabled an amendment closing the in-depth debate. No minority opinion has been formulated. Dear Parliament, Since the emergency announced on 11 March 2020, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary has supported the control bodies during the period of regulation governance in order to ensure effective protection. [[15.10]] It expressed its agreement with the laws on emergency management, as it supports the adoption of the proposed bill, which is currently under discussion. T/27. We consider the following provisions to be extremely important from a national point of view, among the rules that will enter into force after the end of the emergency. At last, in point 9 of the draft, the provisions on compulsory vaccination against the coronal virus resolve the measures that we have also objected to, on the basis of which there was no possibility for consideration in the public education institutions of the state-owned nationality in respect of non-vaccine ethnic educators. Article 11 It is necessary to settle the fate of freedom without pay. We hope that the public and municipal employers will not decide on the maintenance of unpaid leave, and that this will end on 15 June 2022, so that teachers out of ethnic education can return to the institutions and alleviate the already serious shortage of professionals. Our ethnic communities support the entry into force of the provisions of point 10 of the proposal, which lay down rules for the protection of the population of the neighbouring countries' administrative units bordering Hungary against the coronal virus. In Annex 1 to the draft, the abundance of vaccines provides an opportunity to obtain a vaccine through the Hungarian supply system, regardless of nationality, in the restricted areas of neighbouring countries. In addition to humanitarian aid, this also ensures protection against the epidemic, as most personal contacts occur in border areas as a result of daily commuting, shopping tourism, seasonal work. Point 31 of the draft contains a supplement to the Public Finance Act, which also ensures that the use of budget support from individual domestic sources and the duration of the supported activities can be extended. In the event of a project being extended beyond the reference year, the aid will become a commitment-bearing budget and can therefore continue to be used for minority public purposes. We also support the addition of the Public Finance Act that allows local national authorities to be exempted from fines due to non-compliance or late reporting due to an emergency. Among the provisions to be repealed, I would point out that national authorities can now return to the annual mandatory number of meetings laid down in the cardinal law and to the mandatory public hearing related to it. The parliamentary elections and referendums held confirmed that our ethnic communities can hold interim elections suspended so far without any health risks. Dear Secretary of State, Poštovani državni tajniče! The draft law concerns the year 2021 CXIX on emergency transitional arrangements. Law 147. §2 of the Act, which sets the rate of local charges by 30 June 2022, prohibits the increase in the fee of public education institutions. The national authorities that maintain the institutions express their concern if this provision continues to apply, as the rise in food prices over the past period renders the current level of fees untenable. Our ethnic authorities do not have their own revenue, unlike local governments, so no resources are available to compensate for the increase in prices. In the event of a further freezing of fees, we shall in any case initiate negotiations on compensation. Dear Parliament, Poštovani Dome! The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary shall be composed of T/27. It supports the adoption of bill No 1 and agrees with the removal of an emergency in a regulated order. We know that the epidemic is still in danger, that our communities are committed to vaccination. From a nation's perspective, we consider the victims of the pandemic a great loss, and we share the grief of the relatives. We will continue to count on all workers in the healthcare, social sector and the public sector, whose work we have done so far. Thank you very much for your attention. Hvala na posornosti! [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the spokespersons.]]
u2022-05-23-54	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. Dear Parliament, Representatives will now take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. There is no possibility of two-minute comments during the debate. First, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group.
u2022-05-23-55	Mr President, Dear House, I beat and beat this government a lot to really protect the Hungarian families, and I will do so many more times, and that is why I am confused about the package and salad before us, because here, hidden in a salad law, the Government of Hungary would practically open the door to third-world workers from Indonesia, Mongolia, the Philippines and Vietnam. This government, by the way, would have fought rhetorically very hard against migration, I would have basically supported this struggle; the fact is that in reality, they did not go in this direction, but did not do anything to see hundreds of thousands of Hungarian forced emigrations to Western European countries, for which there was not even a so-called home creation or, say, housing programme developed by this government, in essence, nothing to make it possible for them to thrive in the homeland. At the same time, they discovered that, uh, demography was there, and, uh, there's a huge shortage of workers, there's lack of skills, what do we do? Let's get the workers from the third world. A government that seems to be fighting migration. And that they didn't start the madness with this salad law, we can't prove better than that two years ago, they made a strategic agreement on behalf of the government with a temporary agency company that you stated on the basis of your own criteria that he would be able to import organised labour from the third world more effectively than, let's say, labour centres or Hungarian state could have done. And, see, from September last year, they started handing out a classified agency title, didn't they, a new government decree that made it easier for people staying in our country without permission to work, so they even twisted one down the licensing process. This title has since been won by 13 companies, including the first huge company with which an agreement was concluded, and the second half of last year, in addition to Serbia and Ukraine, the EU countries signed virtually cooperation agreements with nine other countries and some very interesting countries. Among these countries are the Philippines, Indonesia; in terms of Kazakhstan, Mongolia, I am more comfortable as a great fan of Hungarian prehistoric history, but there are still unexplored threads here. But what I can't understand is that you and Vietnam have actually concluded a cooperation agreement on organized imports of labour. Mr. Secretary, can you explain to me: what were you thinking? On the other side, we have a quarter of a million Hungarian compatriots who are thus classified among the categories of inactive and unemployed, more than 100,000 of them who have already fallen out of Europe's cruelest government's job search support system, so the three months are over, they are not entitled to any form of care. Don't tell me that out of these 100,000 people with free re-training programs, with a little help, you couldn't bring in workers in the primary labour market with such shortages and symptoms! Of course you can, but you don't care about that. The other hand does not deal with Hungarians who are forced to emigrate abroad. I'm not talking about those who find their calculations at a multi-company company that would spend four or five years in the West under any circumstances, and then I hope that they'll come home with a family or start a family. No, I'm talking about those who, say, as former foreign exchange credentials, can't pay the charges of their converted forint loans here, so they're forced to pay off from a higher income in Western Europe, which was inextricable here, and I'm thinking of them. It is quite certain that only about 100,000 people would be needed in the manufacturing industry, so it is not at all that agriculture alone has such a labour demand, there is a very wide scale here, but, by the way, you have listed a lot of jobs in their decree from the check-in to the meat processing industry, where there would be a clear Hungarian workforce if those in the inactive camp were helped to do so and at least some of them could be seduced into the primary labour market. And we see, more and more often, that it raises enormous concerns from a labour point of view that the Hungarian worker gets that if he has problems, then someone from the third world will come instead, who will not talk back, who will not demand more wages. Thus, it is clear that the vulnerability of the Hungarian worker to the multi-enterprises is increasing, increasing, and Hungary's seemingly national government, which lies to the right, does nothing for the workers of the families concerned. [[15.20]] That's why I'm asking you to come clean. They will clarify themselves because of their inappropriate behaviour towards your profile and portfolio, because what they are doing here in relation to the organized imports of labour from the third world is in direct conflict with their press statements and their multi-annual, apparent European war. They also clarify that while a few years ago they were hoping for the mass import of migrant workers from Serbia and Ukraine, they failed to find out what they were hoping for instead, and they also clarified why they did not support the classical demographic goals of Hungarian families, prosperity in the homeland with housing programmes, pay union, and tax reduction of basic foods. There would be a lot of possibilities. But it is certain that the way to the future of Hungary is not to import hundreds of thousands of workers from the third world and from third countries. I therefore ask you that, for once, it is not in the interests of the multinational companies, but of their real allies, but of the Hungarian families, and that you be made clear of what has been said. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2022-05-23-56	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr Sándor Szabó, Member of the Momentum Group, will be speaking.
u2022-05-23-57	Still Szabolcs Szabó!
u2022-05-23-58	I'm sorry.
u2022-05-23-59	It's okay. Thank you for the floor.
u2022-05-23-60	I ask for your understanding, Congressman. Unfortunately, this can happen because of the old nerves.
u2022-05-23-61	Yeah, it's old, I'll confirm.
u2022-05-23-62	Mr Szabolcs Szabó has the floor, Momentum Group. Here you go.
u2022-05-23-63	Thank you very much. I'm trying to give a brief summary of what I have to say. I have already said what we think about the bill in general, in the general debate, so I would like to limit myself to what has happened since then in the Commission's debates, in the Judicial Committee and before the TAB. Three amendments were submitted to this bill. On behalf of Jobbik, Dániel Z. Karpát has already talked about this, and the retention of the third-country relief for workers from non-EU foreign countries is one of the things that he has objected to and wanted to remove from this package of laws. It was partly overlapped with what the DK Members have submitted, I think they will talk about this in more detail, but it was also essentially trying to smuggle back the protection of the Hungarian workforce, quite precisely smuggle certain parts of this package of laws out of order to protect the Hungarian workforce. Mr Bellezó has tabled an amendment to a specific area of orphanage in order to maintain the special rules for the care of orphans left after those employed in defence. None of them went through the Justice Committee or the TAB. By the way, I think or we think that all three of them would have been acceptable and would not have made the bill perfect, but in any case this text and this regulatory system would have changed in a better direction, which will be extended after the emergency has ended. At the TAB debate, there was a discussion of the package that Mr Arató had already spoken about in the presentation of the minority opinion, namely, that was when it came to the fact that the stricter rules on educators' strikes were considered, in hindsight, to be extended and smuggled back into this package of laws with a TAB modifier. The whole debate is about being simplified to those who may still follow the debate, that it is very difficult to determine in a strike what constitutes a sufficient service. So, for example, if there's a strike in a school, what should teachers do with children, because obviously, if it's exactly the same as if there's no strike, no one will notice there's a strike, so the strike's advocacy is converging to zero. So what happens in a strike? The kid goes in, and they're planning a program for them, they're bringing together the classes, or they're throwing sports competitions for them, or they're watching a movie or they're reading in a library, so they figure something out, but they're not doing what they normally do. And let's just say we're not talking about luddites here. [[Gergely Harvesto laughs.]] So here we are talking about a part of the community of workers who do this very gently, it's not usually a debate, there's no fights, their aggression is about putting on, say, a plaid shirt. But that was a lot, because now they're smuggling back the rule they came up with during the emergency, that you have to do exactly the same thing for an educator during a strike as if there were no strike, so from now on... [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] Yes, you can. The fact is, Congressman Nacsa, that it is not possible to group together, so every class must go into a separate room, there must be a teacher going separately to each group, so it is exactly the same as if there were no strike, that is the problem. [[Nacsa Lawrence: 50 percent! Fifty percent!]] Push the button, Congressman. [[Nacsa Lawrence: 50 percent!]] So you don't have to yell at me about what I'm saying. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] So in this sense, the strike is practically impossible. I'm telling you, the problem here is that employees' ability to assert their interests depends on how effectively they can strike. They rarely take advantage of this opportunity, we live here in Hungary, we know exactly. If we take this rare opportunity out of their hands, they'll have virtually nothing left in their hands. Then I'll give you a personal example. For example, I have been on railway strike many times, and I note in parentheses that my father worked at the MÁV for 40 or a few years, so I understand why they were on strike. There were long, so I took six or seven-hour train trips during the strike because I had to go from A to B, but once I didn't think to start scolding the railroads and getting angry, because I knew they were right, by the way. But even if I didn't agree with them, I would have said they had a right to express it. This is the problem with this whole package of proposals, that this minimum opportunity is being taken away from them. So, overall, I and the Momentum fraction cannot support this summation amendment because the three opposition amendments received were not accepted, plus the TAB added an additional package that led to the amendment in an even worse direction, so we will be able to evaluate this overall in the vote with no value. Thank you for listening.
u2022-05-23-64	I thank Mr Szabolcs Szabó for his contribution. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to MEP László Kordás, DK Group. Here you go.
u2022-05-23-65	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, There's been a rather strange incident this morning, and I'd like to inform you of that, and it belongs to the same package as the bill on educators' strike. Five trade union confederations condemned this proposal in a joint declaration this morning and asked Members not to vote in favour of this proposal. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: All Social?]] We're going to do just that. Let me tell you why. If you want to regulate sufficient service in relation to the strike, then there is a way. There is a rule on legislation that says that stakeholders should be consulted and consulted first. Who's involved here? Obviously, stakeholders include professional organisations, teachers' professional organisations and trade unions. You have failed to do so before submitting this proposal, and this cannot, in any case, be supported now. If you want to make sure that there is a change in the rules on sufficient services, then do so, go along the path of negotiation, go and sit down with the trade unions and bring this proposal back in line with the outcome of the trial. The Democratic Coalition accepts the argument of the Teachers' Union and says that we will vote against this bill, precisely because we will not allow fundamental rights as a right to strike, either among teachers or among other groups of workers. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and Momentum.]]
u2022-05-23-66	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Ferenc David, DK Group. Here you go.
u2022-05-23-67	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, I would like to start with what my fellow Member László Kordás mentioned, because I would like to deal exclusively with the part of the proposal on the Code of Work on regulatory issues relating to the cessation of an emergency. [[15.30]] And as Mr László Kordás mentioned the lack of coordination, I would like to point out that the Competition and the Permanent Consultation Forum of the Government did not discuss this amendment to the Labour Code. I do not know how well you are known, the Competitors' and Government's Permanent Consultation Forum is a tripartite: trade unions, the government, employers' organisations. And after the question I'm going to talk about in the field of the Labour Code is about hiring, it's a meaty issue for employers as well as for employees. I felt from Mr Secretary of State's report and presentation that they were extremely determined to vote in favour of the short change on qualified temporary agency. I miss a great deal of what you have said in the written document and in the oral supplement, I have not heard what kind of guarantee elements are incorporated into this system if this is accepted by Parliament. I would like to start with what my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, said that 13 of these companies will be able to deal with third job loans outside the EU under this special licence. What I would like to suggest in relation to these 13 companies is that, if it is classified as a temporary agency, it should also be qualified to control these companies. These need to be checked in a completely separate way, since it is well known that in Hungary the rental of labour is a very shaky, very muddy area of the world of work. The other thing that I think is very important is that we clearly declare it and this is possible, because the National Employment Service and the HCSO can accurately assess the inventory of deficit professions, so it should be said that this lending process can only be done in the professions where there is an urgent shortage of labour. The third thing I would like to say, and unfortunately it has not been said here either, that although I have never been a trade union representative for our employees, my history is linked to the entrepreneurial sphere in Hungary, there is legislation on orderly labour relations. So it can be said very cheerfully here that either in the reference of intermediaries or employers, both parties should be required to ensure that well-established labour relations prevail. I am not going to repeat what Dániel Z. Karpát said about the ways in which these things can be played, and it is in a terrifying way to abuse the relatively loose tools of temporary agency work, not to mention that these companies are even making extra profit. And to conclude, I would like to draw attention to one more thing. [[To László Kordas.]] I have heard from my trade union friends, including the former trade union leader sitting next to me, that it is happening, and not only in multinational companies, but also in Hungarian businesses, that we find that the number of people employed in the framework of employment will fall in an instant, hundreds, and then, imagine, there will be 400-500 more employees in the company, only and exclusively in the framework of temporary employment. The reasons have been explained, and I don't want to repeat it: limited workers' rights, they don't know the Labour Code, they can be easily worked on weekends, because obviously the family didn't come with them. So I think that it can upset the relative order of the Hungarian labour market if we let it go in this way, and perhaps I would even dare to say that, in mediation and in the employer, in some way or other, there should be a ban on dismissal, a lay-off clause. So what I hope to do in Hungary today is that you do not intend to dismiss 500 employees from a large company with a thousand employees and then hire a thousand loans. I do not believe that, regardless of who is oppositional and who is pro-government, this cannot be a goal and it cannot be possible for this to work in Hungary. Thank you very much for your patience and attention. [[Applause from the benches of DK and Momentum.]]
u2022-05-23-68	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, He indicated his intention to speak, Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Member of the LMP Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-05-23-69	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr State Secretary, I think this pause of a few minutes has been symbolic, meaning that the government has virtually paralyzed the functioning of Parliament, if only for a short time. We are talking about the extraordinary rule of law, the lifting and elimination of the situation relating to regulation governance. It was also typical in the previous period that during the closure of the corona virus epidemic, we indicated that we were ready to ensure the functioning of the Parliament, we were here, we were involved in the debates, we were living with motions. At the same time, when we initiated an extraordinary meeting in the case of proposals to protect the interests of Hungarian people, Hungarian families, you did not appear, the government side did not appear in the Parliament, they did not come into their work, they did not allow Parliament to operate. So you could say that their move was a bit of a symbol of the situation. I would not like to repeat my fellow Members, I think that their speeches very well underline that we are not discussing at all what is coming out of the title of the proposal before us, or what should be referred to, but that it really highlights the policy, as my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z. Karpat, has said, which has characterized you since cycles, that you are hoping for some kind of investment from the increasingly difficult, more vulnerable position of Hungarian workers, from low wages, and, as a result, the terrible exodus, which is the most serious challenge for the nation today, and that is why, in some sectors, the lack of labour is indeed at the level that is causing the collapse. I think that this situation should be faced, rather than you pushing this forward, and the more the Hungarian people would be served, such labour rights guarantees would be withdrawn and the possibility would otherwise be reduced for Hungarian workers to defend themselves in such a situation. However, I would also like to briefly refer back to what has been said here by some of my pro-government colleagues that you have made use of the extraordinary mandate and regulation governance in a necessary and proportionate manner. Well, now, in the final debate of the draft law on the closure of details, someone should shed light on the need, by regulation, to grant Lőrinc Mészáros's hotel chain of 18 billion dollars when Lőrinc Mészáros also withdrew 12 billion dividends from his construction company. So when you said that you did not support our proposals for Hungarian families during the most difficult period of the crisis, because there was no funds in the budget, you also maintained the enrichment of Lőrinc Mészáros and their other oligarchs, all by decree. What exactly did this have to do with, Mr State Secretary, the protection of the health and safety of Hungarian people? Furthermore, what did the withdrawals and restrictions affecting municipalities have to do with the implementation of these objectives? And it is frightening that these measures have been put into law since then, so in practice these municipal withdrawals were considered justified not only in the event of such a regulation government, but also in the event of an emergency, but you believe that the resources taken from the municipalities will not be returned in the future, even though it can be seen that, in the performance of certain important public services, the municipalities will not be able to operate without these resources. Such an unjustified measure was, by the way, when public support for local public transport in rural cities was withdrawn, at the time of the most serious closures, when the congestion was required to be reduced. Obviously, the latter was a justified measure, but at a time when cities, rural cities, were under a high pressure to maintain public transport, you withdrew these funds during the most difficult period. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] In addition to Budapest, these subsidies were withdrawn from rural cities by the government, which lied to itself as a country-friendly country, while they knew precisely that there was no rural city that would not be a problem to ensure an adequate level of public transport on the basis of its own resources. At last week's committee meetings, during the ministerial hearings, I asked him about this, and unfortunately, Minister-designate Palkovic confirmed that he had no intention of returning these funds to the government, so he had no intention of supporting the local public transport of rural cities from central sources. I think this is an extremely serious problem, and this goes perfectly against the declared goals of combating climate change; it also goes against the goals of making rural cities more livable and preserving the vitality of these castles. And then I would like to refer to one more thing, and we have reminded you in the general debate that, indeed, in connection with the extraordinary legal order, there were Fidesz politicians, Fidesz mayors who abused this extraordinary legal order and abused the extraordinary authority. We can think of the mayor of Szekszárd or the mayor of Komló Fideszes, and in one person, they made decisions that override the decisions of the bodies elected by the people living there, the citizens there. In your extremely diligent legislative process, I did not see a proposal for a solution to this situation, even though one of your ministers acknowledged that this was indeed an abuse of the extraordinary legal order, but you did not remedy this legal vacuum, and you did not submit a proposal that would ensure that mayors do not abuse the extraordinary authority in such an extraordinary legal order, so it is not possible to support this new extraordinary mandate in itself. I would add that during the coronal virus epidemic, we supported with our vote all the measures that served to ensure the interests of the Hungarian people, and will continue to do so, in the current period and in the coming years of crisis. However, this bill will not be supported by the LMP faction. Thank you. [[15.40]]
u2022-05-23-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A speech will be made by Mrs Dóra Dúró, Vice-President of the House, representing the Group of our country. You have the floor, Madam Vice President.
u2022-05-23-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Once again, you have proved that you have nothing to do with education and that you have nothing to do with the protest of teachers. As early as the establishment of the ministerial structure, it has been made clear that it will not be in place for this nation-wide strategically outstanding sector, and it is not only that education does not receive an independent ministry, but it will be in a unique way Sándor Pintér who will also supervise public education. So it was already apparent that they did not want to deal with this sector in place. Once again, you have two-thirds authority, so you have the legal opportunity to block teachers' right to strike, and you will certainly do so tomorrow. They have the opportunity to sweep under the carpet the problems that arise in education every day; and they have the opportunity to pretend that everything is okay, but that doesn't mean that the problems will stop. Because every day, our children go into institutions where teachers stand up to 20 to 30 children, close the door behind them, and from then on we leave our children to them, who spend more time with them than we parents do with them. I would be much happier if the debate in this House was not about what constitutes a sufficient service in the event of a strike, but about the professional, financing and labour law issues for which teachers also touched the means of strike, because that is the problem. There are difficulties in professional, financing and labour law for people who raise future generations and who meet our children every day, but you do not appreciate them for an answer. We do not talk about how much the teachers work, so what wages they receive, what tasks they have to do, the number of people who work for them is one third of the OECD average, we do not talk about them in this House, but we are talking about how you know how you want to prevent their strike. They can do that because they have two-thirds authority, which doesn't make the time of teachers or our children at school any more valuable. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-05-23-72	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group. [[Expansion, interruptions in opposition ranks.]]
u2022-05-23-73	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I'm glad to bring you a little pleasure this afternoon, really, if that's all that's left for you. I would like to point out to Congressman László Lóránt Keresztes that I am trying to recall the opportunity you said during the time of the emergency that mayors abused the government of the regulation in an emergency, how many posts, press conferences, for example, you called the mayor of Pécs to appoint a deputy mayor in one person without asking the board, a socialist politician just by himself. How many times have you asked the mayor of Pécs not to abuse himself? How many times have you called upon the Momentum Mayor of God, who has even been condemned by the court for using the emergency for political reckoning? How many times have you called on the left-wing mayor of Érd in the case that he had made a decree in his own jurisdiction in 46 cases a few days before the board meeting, so that the panel could have met three days later and discussed matters and said that he thought there was consensus on these matters, honourable Member. So I would ask you, when you talk about the abuse of the municipalities, especially in the case of Pécs, which is your narrower country, Congressman, and you often speak up in matters of Pécs, how many times you have spoken to the mayor, even in a private conversation, to tell him that what you are doing is wrong. But did you tell your friends at the moment that you told your friends in Érd, that you weren't sure you should be doing this? If someone had listened to Dániel Z. Kárpát's speech from the Moon, they would have thought that the Gyurcsány government had returned in Hungary and that unemployment was up to 10 percent again. The congressman gave a speech like there is a huge unemployment here, and hundreds of thousands of Hungarians are constantly earning jobs, and they can't, because there is no job in the market. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] And he's upset that they can't find a job, and there's some huge unemployment here. Honourable Congressman, Four million seven hundred thousand employees, over a million more than when your allies ruled. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Is that why the Vietnamese are needed?]] More than a million more than when your allies governed, and 3.6 percent of the unemployment rate in March, honourable Member. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] This is the third best in the European Union, we are bronze medalists in the European Union in terms of unemployment figures. And the unemployment rate of young people, between 18-29s, is constantly decreasing, thank God, because these young people and our older compatriots are also finding their calculations, finding jobs, because it is possible to find work in the labour market in a relatively short period of time, and indeed, as my fellow Member has said here, there are areas where labour shortages have developed. I think it's both a problem, but it'd rather be a shortage of workers than unemployment, and your policy, the millions of people on aid, should be more focused. I am very pleased that we are the leaders of the European Union in terms of unemployment, the Hungarian unemployment rate is so low, and despite a crisis, despite a Covid epidemic, we have managed to keep these great numbers and, after a slightly worse period, employment figures have improved again and unemployment figures have improved again. I think this is a joint Hungarian success, and it is worth being proud of, rather than denying these successes. Thank you, Mr Ferenc Dávid, for the good functioning of the Labour Code and several laws, since employers can agree with employees. I'm glad you complimented this law. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] And he said that the law that workers and employers can agree on is right. I agree with that, honourable Member. I would like to point out to Mr Szabolcs Szabó... because anyone listening to Parliament's mediation thinks that Szabolcs Szabó is right or is telling the truth. [[To interrupt Szabolcs Szabó:]] Unfortunately, it's rare, Congressman. If someone looks at Szabolcs Szabó's speech, then he said that from now on there will be no change in the pedagogical strike, the teachers must do the same thing as if there were no strike. That is what you said, honourable Member, that is not true. It's as simple as that. Let's be honest. Mr President, if you had read the bill, you would have seen that there is 50 percent, 50 percent is required in the current bill to keep hours. We agree there's 50 percent, don't we? That's 50 percent, Congressman, not the same as 100. [[Intercoms, including Szabolcs Szabó: You have to be there in the other 50. The president's ringing the bell.]] It is not the 100 percent to be held, it is in line with the principle of necessity, proportionality, it is in line with previous decisions of the Constitutional Court when the Constitutional Court decided on a strike. Honourable Member, you are right, there is an area where 100 percent is required, for example, for graduates. You say that those preparing for graduation should not receive the necessary education so that they can graduate successfully, go to college, go to college, start their lives. [[Szabolcs Szabó: I'd like to cancel my graduation, say it.]] I understand that, Congressman, but to quote classic Szabolcs Szabó, press a button, honourable Member. This isn't a screaming argument. That's what you told us here. 50 percent is not 100, honourable Member. It can be argued that 50 percent is the necessity, the adequacy criteria [[Szabolcs Szabó intervenes.]] It's right or wrong, but to deny that it would be exactly the same with a strike as when it's a normal school day, I think it's against lying. Ladies and gentlemen, You have repeatedly called on us to help the refugees in Ukraine. I have been at the border many times, and the municipalities, government agencies, civil society organisations, churches and volunteers are doing a pretty amazing job both at the border and at the rest of the asylum stations, and I think it is right for those who plan for longer periods of time and who have no idea how long that terrible war in their country lasts, for example, to work in Hungary, to help them there. You may be opposed to giving Ukrainian refugees a job in Hungary, say this openly! This may be a political position, I would like to argue with him, but the fact that the employers were able to be there at the first moment, the trade unions could be there, by the way, there could be employment intermediaries who helped people who had nowhere to go; to help people find some kind of work for people who might just collapse their city or their house, where they lived, and their lives would collapse, and they would get a job in this way, I think it's right to help them in this way. If in this way, not only with home, accommodation, not only with food, not only with help, not only with care, but also with job opportunities for Ukrainian refugees, I think that is right. You may not think it is, but I'm glad we're helping them. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[15.50]]
u2022-05-23-74	Thank you, Congressman. I would like to point out to Congressman Szabolcs Szabó that it is very difficult to bear the interruption. [[Szabolcs Szabó: I just gave it back!]] I'm telling both of you that I'm in charge of the meeting for now, and everyone has a chance to press a button, so do this. And that goes for all sides. [[Szabolcs Szabó, as he points to the pro-government representatives: Don't say it.]] You continued with what you complained about, so I'm gonna close the case here. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát will speak.
u2022-05-23-75	Mr President, Dear House, In view of my limited time frame, I am not trying to drag my colleague Lőrinc Nacs back from the other side of the Stargate to the universe and to the ground of reality. But the Secretary of State wasn't so brave anymore. By the way, in my fellow Member, Nacsa, I appreciate that he stands up and gets into it. We can't say the same with the Secretary of State. Here I would like to point out two more specific questions to you in order to at least end up with a clear answer. As a solution, we might see that your strategic agreements should be renegotiated and expanded with the companies concerned. Are you willing to include the greater protection of interest and self-organization of Hungarian workers in this, or are you willing to include in strategic contracts the solution and slow catch-up of the wage issue of Hungarian workers to the European average at least? Thank you for your patience, Mr. President.
u2022-05-23-76	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, LMP Group. Here you go, up to the time limit available.
u2022-05-23-77	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressman Nacsa, on 11 December 2020, I did not condemn the decision of the mayor of Pécs in a friendly conversation, but in public, the decision to appoint a deputy mayor bypassing the board. When exactly did you condemn that decision with the mayor of Szekszárd...
u2022-05-23-78	Thank you very much.
u2022-05-23-79	...that he overwritten it in one person...
u2022-05-23-80	Thank you very much, Congressman.
u2022-05-23-81	... previously adopted by the College. Thank you.
u2022-05-23-82	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Although Mr Balázs Barkóczi pressed a two-minute button, I think he wanted to speak in a normal time frame. You have the floor.
u2022-05-23-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that anyone who had anything to do with public education as a parent or as a teacher or as an educational politician was watching the news with increasing concern when it turned out that Sándor Pintér will be responsible for education in Hungary. Our concern appeared to be confirmed after the hearing by the Commission of the Minister for the Interior, when he said: there will be order, school closure, no teacher's wage increase. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: That's not what he said!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, In the last 12 years you have invaded and destroyed Hungarian public education allow me to list the most pressing problems in some points. More than 6,600 teachers are missing from public education. The shortage of teachers now affects not only small villages in the countryside, but also the districts in Budapest. Teachers are regularly forced to work overtime for forced replacements, which they will not be paid for. Teachers are overwhelmed, and they won't pay for summer camping. Perhaps we can all remember when teachers were offered vouchers for a chain of stores for summer camping. To this day, the basic wage of the starting teachers does not exceed the minimum wage of the skilled worker, i.e. 173 thousand forints, and the teacher's wage is still tied to the minimum wage of 2014. There is no free choice of textbooks in schools, and even the biggest problem, the biggest problem: during the corona virus epidemic, you, my fellow Members, have not provided free testing, free vaccination or free protective clothing for teachers, school and kindergarten workers. Of these problems, what are you focusing on right now? To withdraw the fundamental rights of educators, they're revoking the right to strike. This is quite simply outrageous, and this bill cannot be voted for. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2022-05-23-84	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I'd like to ask if someone else would like to speak out of the time frame. I don't see any contact... [[Interview from DK's ranks: Yes, yes!]] I'm sorry. Congressman Zsolt Gréczy! Last minute. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-05-23-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. All I would like to add is that a few years ago, the country was full of posters that people from abroad would rape our women and posters that would take away our jobs. Nothing else will happen on the basis of the law that you are trying to push down our throats here, but that you will fill Hungarian companies, Hungarian factories with foreign workers, which is at least problematic. On the one hand, it will break the Hungarian wages, and on the other hand it will not increase the sense of security of the people, because you were the ones who told the Hungarians that whoever comes from outside would obviously harm our country. Now nothing will happen but that, say, they will arrive from Vietnam, and they will live there, installed in all kinds of temporary residences and trucks, and will be drawn into the cities, and people will see that despite what Fidesz has promised that these people will not come to Hungary, they will still be among us. I think, of course, that there are situations in which foreign workers may be needed by the country, so I am not playing anti-alien strings, but I am actually trying to confront you with the fact that your earlier statements and current reality are not in a thank-you relationship. Thank you very much. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You should vote! Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-05-23-86	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. I see Mr. Secretary is preparing for an answer. I give the floor to Secretary of State Azbei Tristan, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. You have the floor.
u2022-05-23-87	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thanking you for your understanding patience just now, I remind you and those following our debate that the Crown Virus pandemic is the 21st century. It has caused the worst health and economic crisis of the century in Europe and worldwide, which has also affected Hungary. The Government of Hungary has also fought the pandemic, and rapid and effective decision-making and implementation have been key to the effectiveness of its defence measures. To this end, the government has declared an emergency to the entire territory of Hungary in order to prevent the consequences of a massive outbreak of corona virus that threatens the safety of life and property, and to protect the health and life of Hungarian citizens, which has enabled the government to shorten the period of action and thus increase efficiency. In this closing debate too, although it was not closely related to the subject of the bill, the assessment of the government's performance and the success of the Hungarian people's sacrifice was again raised in the form of a debate. Mr Lóránt László Keresztes said that the government was not operational and that the opposition in the country would have stimulated the functioning of the Parliament. I can now say in retrospect that Hungary has carried out one of Europe's most successful vaccination campaigns, if not the most successful. We have done this despite the fact that the opposition has been doing minework all along. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Oh, come on!]] She was scaring me with chamomuvideos. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Forget it!]] disincentived people to take vaccinations. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Liar!]] In terms of economic aspects, we have achieved that Hungary is in turn ahead of us despite the severe economic impact of the coronal virus epidemic, the indicator of our GDP growth has emerged and employment is below 4 per cent. Which means practically full employment, which we'll be talking about later. At the same time, that Parliament would have stopped operating: the opposition alone caused confusion in the operation of Parliament when it lied to its foreign political allies and mainstream liberal media that the Parliament had been dissolved in Hungary by government decree and that it would no longer meet. Meanwhile, the government was committed to returning to normal life, and it was necessary to do so, Congressman László Keresztes, also to take part in the sacrifice of the municipalities. But the political sphere started saving itself on the initiative of the government, so the political parties contributed to these sacrifices. [[16.00]] As has been said in the general debate on the bill before us, the possibility of re-establishing the normal procedural order after the extraordinary legal order required by the emergency is now open, for which it is essential, however, that Parliament should establish appropriate transitional rules with a view to the need for legal certainty. Dear Parliament, Following a general and detailed discussion of the bill, the amendment tabled by the Legislative Committee has made some 80 amendments to the proposal by making changes of a highly legal, text-focused, linguistic and editorial nature. Among the substantive provisions of the amending proposal, it is necessary to highlight in particular the additional rules for the strike in public education institutions, as they have been made at the Legislative Committee and in this debate, and the press reports published thereafter have also pointed out that the interpretation of these provisions leads to serious misunderstandings. On the basis of the text proposed by the amendment, the fundamental right of workers to represent and cease working, i.e. to allow the exercise of the right to strike, the fundamental right of children to develop and participate in public education, can also be enforced. In the event of cessation of work, both fundamental rights are enforced in the light of the other, in a limited way by law. The regulation to be created defines the restriction in such a way that it does not result in the impossibility of any justice. On this basis, I must reiterate that the aim of the regulation is to ensure the smooth functioning of public education and to define the extent and conditions of the necessary, still sufficient service, as well as the corresponding rules of procedure, in order to ensure that the fundamental rights of children are respected in the light of the principles of necessity and proportionality. Thus, the amendment settles how supervision of children and pupils should be ensured on the working day affected by a strike; the number of hours required for students and other students in the graduation class to be kept in such a case; the fact that the provision required for college care, pupils with special educational and learning needs remains unchanged during the strike. All these provisions are intended to protect children's rights. I would ask opposition politicians and representatives to side with the children this time. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Clown!]] With regard to those raised by Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát in relation to the employment of third-country nationals, I would like to remind you that at the meeting of the Judicial Committee, no one represented Jobbik's proposal for amendment, raised things that were not represented there. So, of course, no one voted for them there, so it is a strange idea to put them on the agenda now in the final debate, but, of course, it is an important issue, and I would like to mention it, and I will mention it. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: I am honored!]] The employment of third-country nationals by qualified lenders can only be applied permanently by Hungarian workers, even at higher wage costs, for posts that have been vacant for years. I also say this in response to the remarks made by Mr Dávid Ferenc: so the rights of Hungarian workers are not violated in any way, because these posts cannot be filled by Hungarian workers because there are not enough Hungarian workers. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Who will tell you this, Mr. Secretary?]] This is our joint success that the country achieves virtually full employment, which is a labour shortage for certain professions. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Multi-Buildings tell us!]] In order to increase competitiveness, the government, in response to this economic necessity, will create the legal framework in principle that, under strict conditions, such employment should be possible through a number of designated employers who meet professional requirements. And maintaining the competitiveness of our country's economy is in the interest of all Hungarian workers and jobseekers alike. Dear Parliament, In addition to the above mentioned and discussed provisions, further technical amendments were included in the Committee's own amendment proposal, which deal significantly with the external comments received during the consultation of the legislative text. The National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, in short, hereinafter referred to as NAIH, notes that the amendment clarifies the scope and manner in which the employer can manage the inclusion of vaccination where vaccination may be a condition for work. Similarly, it clarifies the purpose of data management, also accepting the position of NAIH, and the amendment that regulates the purpose-boundness of the data management records of the Gondosóra, a digitalisation programme for the safety and protection of the lives of people with limited capacity for self-sufficiency. In addition, the National Court Office will be amended in line with its comments, thereby extending the scope of exception where the employer may determine vaccination as a condition for working, recognising the specific features of the structure of the organisations previously concerned which would not allow this to be done in respect of the uniform application of the law. In addition, it is worth highlighting the facilitation by which the electronic transmission of the form for proof of incapacity for work is possible, not until 30 days after the end of the emergency, but until data on incapacity to work are uploaded to the Electronic Health Service Space. The proposal also provides that the form may be transmitted electronically to the doctor, the insured person and the insured person, including by e-mail, to the employer. Dear Parliament, 27/2021 on the announcement of an emergency and the entry into force of emergency measures The emergency under the government decree will soon be terminated, the government's measures in the extraordinary legal order will expire and the legal relationship in the event of an emergency would therefore be settled and the necessary clear and predictable regulatory transition should be ensured. On this basis, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-05-23-88	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws to the Act on the Listing of the Ministries of Hungary and the discussion of the summarised amendment follow. The government referral is T/48. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Ovadi, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2022-05-23-89	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 19 May 2022, T/48 on the amendment of certain laws to the Law on the Listing of the Ministries of Hungary was discussed. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment and the summary report were adopted by 28 votes in favour on the basis of an exceptional procedure, 9 against and without abstentions. Dear House, On 3 April, the Hungarian electorate made a clear and clear decision on the need for leaders and governments who are able to protect Hungary from the dangers ahead and who are most capable of providing good answers to the challenges facing the country. It is clear to all Hungarians that we are living in challenging times. There is a war going on in our neighbourhood, with serious consequences for Europe as a whole. We're all very concerned about what's happening every day. Unfortunately, the negative consequences of the armed conflict have a direct impact on everyone's lives, which are experienced by each Hungarian. [[16.10]] All we need to think about is the rising world energy prices, the economic recession, the supply disruptions in the food industry, or other market disturbances. Ladies and gentlemen, At the parliamentary elections in April, the national conservative side was given an unprecedented mandate to govern, which it will use. As a result of the unprecedentedly strong democratic legitimacy, we have already defended the reduction of the rent and introduced price stops and export bans so that the negative effects of inflation are not felt by households. We have a decade of danger ahead of us. For this reason, the most important task of the future new government is to provide answers to the questions of the European economic crisis that has emerged as a result of the war situation, which will enable Hungary to preserve its achievements in recent years. In line with the previous traditions of the civil side, it is now forming a government to conduct its composition and structure from the four years ahead. Pursuant to Article 17 (1) of the Fundamental Law, the list of ministries is provided for by law. In compliance with this basic statutory obligation, the bill listing the ministries of Hungary has been adopted, which proposes the setting up of 11 ministries. The purpose of the bill before us is to amend the legislation needed to start work in line with the new governance structure. Dear House, I can only stress that in the dangerous decade ahead, we must make decisions that protect Hungary and all Hungarians from external influences and the negative effects of the economic recession. As always, national interests are the priority, and we must act accordingly, and therefore the proposed legislation should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-05-23-90	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Azbej Tristan as rapporteur, at this stage of the debate or at a later stage of the debate. [[Asbej on Tristan's mark:]] Mr Secretary of State indicates that he intends to speak at a later stage in the debate. I would like to inform you that you will have a 15-minute time frame for speaking in the debate and for saying any closing words. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. Dear Parliament, There will now be speeches by Members, and there will be no two-minute speeches during the debate. I give the floor to Congresswoman Éva Sebők, Momentum Group.
u2022-05-23-91	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, A few years ago, I was riding my bike from downtown Orosháza towards Gyopárosfürdő, and on the road, the light barrier gave me a red signal, and I stopped and waited for the train to leave. In front of me, a young man in his thirties came by car, and he didn't notice the sign of the light barrier. I was scared, and it seemed that if things didn't change very quickly, the train I had seen and the passenger car would crash with the young man. It was an instinctive reaction on my part to start yelling at you to stop, obviously from the noise of traffic there was no chance that you could hear it, but it worked unexpectedly. He must have noticed something from my tense posture, from my dead face, or it drew attention to him, because he looked into my eyes and reacted with satufs, so he stopped in inches in front of the passing train. That's the story that came to my mind when I read this salad law, and I feel like there's even less chance that my yelling is gonna affect me right now. This package or this structural transformation does not respond to the challenges facing Hungary, but responds to the internal political events of Fidesz, and this will lead to disaster. I am aware that we are not talking about personal matters here, but we need to look at structural issues specifically. At the same time, it makes it highly impossible that the structure itself is built on persons, essentially sewn to the button, instead of looking for the button for the coat. As I mentioned, the structure itself is determined by internal political struggles within Fidesen, personal issues within Fidesen, lifelikeness, efficiency, or the natural nature of affairs do not appear at all behind the design of the structure. Consider that everything that is agricultural was separated by surgical precision from János Lazarus. Dear fellow Members, I am an infinitely practical man, so when I read the salad law and added in my mind everything I know about the future governance structure, I tried to put it into practice: what things will look like in everyday life. I don't think I'm going to surprise anyone by mentioning health and education for the first time. These are two areas that in the last 30 years and I would like to draw the attention of my colleague Nacsa to the fact that I have been talking about the last 30 years, not only about the last 12 years, health and education have been neglected in the last 30 years. Today, both areas are in a completely insufferable state. I think we all know, and let's be honest with each other, we're in a tight circle. [[Defiance in the ranks of Momentum.]] That these are two areas where a politician can only fail today. Sándor Pintér, who, according to industry rumors, wanted to retire long ago and who we believe should have retired a long time ago. It's probably his last cycle, so he can take the fall for health care and education. The fact that he happens to be running the Ministry of the Interior didn't interest the authors, that education and health should remain in the internal affairs, I think that's a rather bizarre thought. I will no longer agree that this has put police, health and education in the same hands, if we know this in advance, then I am sure in the case of the legislation on the listing of ministries that I would suggest that an amendment be submitted to the Ministry of Interior in order to rename the Ministry of Interior as the super-ministery of labour shortages. Needless to say, Mr Pintér did not put down a meaningful plan in the Commission's hearings to address the morbid shortage of labour, so let's say that he also beat categories to the hearing of the candidate for minister responsible for culture and innovation, and I am sure my opinion on this has been seen, and I have presented my apologies for the cheap wordplay. [[It's a rare blur.]] Moreover, the internal organisation of health care will have very surreal consequences. Allow me to give you an example. When the ban on the barbaric, absolute barbaric practice of marriage will be on the table of big politics, and it will be on our table, I will guarantee that, in practice, this will mean that we Hungarian women in their 20s and 30s will have to negotiate with a 70-plus policeman about how much we can or should not be constrained after childbirth. You can't think this isn't surreal. Then, of course, there's the question of civilian secret services. In a country where spy software has been certified against fact-finding journalists and opposition actors [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's not true!]] You're capable of recruiting civil intelligence services under the Minister of Propaganda. All I can say is, tell Antal Rogán that I'll be waiting for his dear new colleagues with cookies on my kitchen counter; if anyone has an allergy to food, just leave me a note, I'll bake the next batch taking into account it. Finally, there is also the question of the economy: six different ministries will deal with the economy, it is completely opaque, it can already be seen that there are overlapping powers, there are gaps in the system. I'm convinced it's part of the design, and it's not a mistake in design. The aim is total intransparency, all at a time, and I find this rather daring when the EU is holding back billions precisely because the fate of EU support to the economy is not transparent. And we need these money to spend what we need: hospitals, schools and jobs. Because that will lead, among other things, to [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] that for the next four years... thank you for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from Momentum.]] [[16.20]]
u2022-05-23-92	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, LMP Group. Here you go.
u2022-05-23-93	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, During the general debate, we did not know what portfolio the individual ministries would have in detail, which we could learn during the hearing of the ministers' candidates. The Committee on Sustainable Development has listened to three candidates for ministers, and I would like to talk briefly about the lessons of this. I agree with my colleague in favour of the Government before me that we are indeed facing a time of crisis and that we are facing challenges that we have not faced before. In this area, I think, in such a situation, the most important thing is to preserve our self-determination, so that we can protect our natural resources. I think that there is full agreement in that, regardless of the political side, that if we do not do this, if we cannot protect natural resources, natural resources, then the country, the nation, will be in huge trouble. It can be seen that while the protection of natural resources is becoming increasingly less and less important in action, it is increasingly important to ensure environmental sustainability. It can be seen that this area has practically been dismembered, and there will be no meaningful government representation on this extremely important issue, we can say, of national strategy. It was clear that environmental protection, environmental protection, was placed under the direction of the Minister responsible for industrial development, that nature protection was separated from this, that was left in the Agricultural Ministry, and what is perhaps the most serious problem is that the water issue, which I think is once again undisputed, that is an important issue, has no governmental responsibility, there is no specific ministry that has a prominent and universal responsibility for water matters. I asked three candidates for ministers at three committee meetings on this matter, and they were unable to give a meaningful answer as to who will be responsible as minister, as a responsible member of the government for water matters in the next parliamentary term. You can see how diverse the problems are: the challenges affecting our surface waters from the lack of precipitation, the management of groundwater, it is apparent that the utility sector is practically on the brink of collapse, the supply of healthy drinking water is in danger and the protection of water bases is at risk. But today, at today's NEB meeting, we've talked about the challenges our rivers face. We can now see the ecological disaster that has taken place in the river Sajó. In this situation, this matter was not important enough for this government to name, let's say, a minister-level person responsible for this. That's pretty scary. I have said a number of times about the situation in the water utility sector in the previous parliamentary term. Indeed, the challenge has been present since cycles and regardless of political sides, but after 2010, this problem has become more and more serious, as you have had a lot of measures, such as the public utility tax, which has made it virtually impossible to operate the water utilities sector. We are now faced with problems of a nature and magnitude that you cannot sweep under the mat. In an immediate question, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán acknowledged that there is a thousand billion-dollar shortage of resources to ensure the most important public service. At the committee hearing, I also asked questions about this, and I see the process on your part that we had already heard in the interpretation of Secretary of State Tamás Schanda, that someday you will come up with a water utility strategy that will save the situation. I have heard this promise once again that a water utility strategy will be completed. You have failed once again to make a solution proposal, or specifically to name the resources. Why is it a problem that the Minister responsible for the development of industry is under the control of the environment? I've set a specific example. The Prime Minister and several senior pro-government representatives have also indicated, for example, what a key strategic sector battery production is for you. At the meeting of the committee, Minister Palkovics said that, indeed, this is using the natural resources to an extreme extent, and that we know the risks it carries. As an example, the independent research commissioned by civilians in the Göd region showed the presence of chemicals related to battery production in groundwater. In this situation, not only would the government have been able to set up a system of institutions which would indicate this serious environmental problem on its own, but civilians had to shed light on this problem by means of an independent expert. Even in the present situation, civilians are still suing the government for the benefit of the population living there in order to provide meaningful information on the severity of the situation and the consequences of the situation. They are suing the Ministry of the Interior, because the water authority is under disaster protection, which can provide answers on this issue. This is an extremely serious contradiction, which has practically not been refuted by László Palkovics. It is also a very serious contradiction that László Palkovics, who is responsible for climate change, has announced what I have just referred to, that they will not give back the central resources taken from local public transport support in rural cities. This makes it virtually impossible or seriously difficult to maintain public transport in rural cities. So we can see an incredible amount of contradiction, but overall, we can see that the environmental issue has been demoted by you in the government structure even compared to the previous cycle. Let me give you a positive point at the end of my speech. I have been fighting for years to stop the influx of foreign garbage into Hungary. In recognition of this problem, I have already received two ministers' promises that the government will support our proposals to stop plastic garbage typically imported into the country from Italy. I am very confident that my proposal for the manyth time will now be accepted by the majority of governments. That way, we can make progress on at least one important matter. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2022-05-23-94	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Vajda, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2022-05-23-95	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. From up there, I told you once, not from here, not from my place yet, so at least now I've learned how to pick up the microphone and the buttons, how to handle them, so I could practice this among myself. I'd like to comment on two things. I would like to pick one up from where my fellow Member Éva Scarők finished, because, unfortunately, his time has passed. He began to say the problem of the lack of education and health ministries. That is what I see, from the new governance structure, it is clear that your government will continue to build that outdated work-based society, while Europe has been building a knowledge-based society for a good decade and a half. This shows that they are still unable to build an economic strategy beyond the electoral cycles, which really raises the country. You want the country to remain a assembly country, which is getting further and further away from the developed half of Europe. What could be the reason for this? I'm asking you. In the Committee on Budgets, which I am fortunately able to lead, we have heard two ministers, the old-new Minister of Finance and the new Minister for Economic Development. I asked both of them how they felt about this, what they wanted to do to finally be a forward-looking economic strategy. The incompetence of the Hungarian economy is an incredibly big problem, and I am not only saying this, but it is enough to refer to the MNB's competitiveness reports, and they are calling for a series of health and education reforms; I repeat: not only me and us, but also the Hungarian National Bank. Let me quote from the President of the National Bank, György Matolcsy, who the other day warned the government that the external and internal balance was broken, the budget and the current balance of payments were seriously deficiting, inflation is being released; once again, the quote is not from me, I quote György Matolcsy, which is why he believes that there are three indicators coming to a two-year stabilisation programme, and that there is a need for creative, bold and unorthodox steps and a second tax reform. For example, I asked the two ministers who appeared before our committee, for example, what would happen to the Hungarian economy if there were no educated, learnable, language-speaking and digitally equipped workers, and if there were no teachers at school. There was another issue that I raised on the committee for the two ministers. Allow me to share this with you, and I will also tell you what the two ministers have said. I calculated that I had found at least six ministries related to the economic area. There is such an EU Minister for Money and Regional Development, a Minister for Construction and Investment, a Minister for Industry and Technology, a Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs, a Minister for Finance and the Minister for Economic Development. I asked you where you can detach the areas from each other. For example, when do we develop land, when do we develop land and when do we develop an economy, how do we know that? I asked both of them that they would otherwise have an impact on fiscal policy and how they would have conflicts of interest. I asked them, for example, that if the implementation of economic development programmes goes to Tibor Navracsics, but the directions, let's say, Márton Nagy invents, and Mihály Varga invents the money, if not an EU source, they will do this at a permanent ministerial level, this is good, and then there will be too much overlap. [[16.30]] And if you'll allow me, I'll give you a very brief summary of how the two ministers responded. Mihály Varga replied... by the way, all the questions were answered quite correctly by both ministers, it is important that I tell you here as well. Mihály Varga's old-new finance minister compared their cooperation to a circle, that all ministers who cover economic issues sit in the circle. He called this the economic cabinet, so he talked about the economic cabinet, and it was very important for him to highlight that he would continue to prepare the background materials for the economic cabinet as Minister of Finance. Márton Nagy said another plane, he said to the same question how the various ministries could cooperate, he said that there were actually only three on... three important players, sorry for the slip of the tongue who were doing the work on the economy; he named them. He's the first one I'm gonna say, although he was politely the last one to say it. So Márton Nagy, Mihály Varga, and György Matolcsy said that these are the three actors who are doing the work on the economy. They are in the three corners of the triangle, but, as in all triangles, the three corners are constantly connected, and then Mr.Márton Nagy pointed out that Viktor Orbán is sitting in the middle of the triangle, because all important economic decisions are made by the Prime Minister. In parentheses, this is what worries me if a prime minister wants to decide everything, including economic issues, but in any case this was the answer: one minister compared it to a circular plane and the other to a triangle. I thought I'd share that with you, and I'm curious how you see this structure. Thank you very much for the opportunity to speak from here.
u2022-05-23-96	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2022-05-23-97	Mr President, Dear House, Let's try to have a less-practical-politicised discussion than we did on the previous agenda. I have a very simple technical question that I am pointing out to Mr. Secretary of State. As a basically housing and family policy politician, I am a little alarmed by the fact that when we talk about basic housing issues, four of the six ministries with economic involvement come up, but three are sure. What we see is that rust-zone issues, classic housing policy issues, are more or less a part of the Ministry of Technology and Industry. We do have a Ministry of Territorial Development, where we obviously have to consider spatial planning, if we want to implement, say, a rental program, and, by the way, very grand, large-scale ideas were expressed at the hearing of the Minister's candidate for the Ministry of Construction and Investment, I might add, there is some openness about even better programming points, which is a premium feeling, we do not get used to this every week. But when it comes to half a million vacant properties in Hungary, I can't imagine a man armed with any ism telling us to let those properties stay empty, we don't even try to use 10 percent of them as rent apartments. Luckily, every normal-thinking person would like us to assess this property stock, wouldn't it, three property legs? Obviously, no one wants to touch private property, although I think the extension of the concept of housing agencies would be a very sensible area for renting a part of the property that is kept for investment purposes only and that is empty, so that it can be rented along a financially motivated system. In the case of municipal and state-owned persons, the percentage that is in such a state as to be cheaper to renovate and use as a rental than to build new ones should be considered or investigated. I'm gonna put the percentage of 80-90 percent where renovations will be more expensive or more expensive than construction of new ones, but, well, they're gonna ask you to build new ones. And we also see that this is very closely related to the Ministry of Regional Development issues, but we do not see perfectly in the sense that if we talk about college development, if we talk about a concept of public housing, who will answer these questions. Even in previous programming, I was so well-known as having enormous openness, so it would be most important for me to have a demographic ministry, because we are really talking about the most meaty issue, but I wouldn't have considered an independent Ministry of Housing or a Ministry of Housing and Family Affairs to be a despicable idea. I see that basically an economic and economic crisis management government is now built, but I think it's very important at the beginning, and your fundamental interests are not mine, I can interpel any of them, and it's in your fundamental interest to be able to tell who you can and who you should go to in housing matters, but who is most responsible for it. I don't care who provides the money for this, because we'll be able to discuss it with each other soon in the course of the budget debates, but the responsibilities of housing... Or I'll give you another example from which Mr. Secretary of State will understand perfectly what I mean: restoring state support for housing savings. You've taken this away in the last few years, haven't you? Not only many young Hungarians, but they also put a typical condominium in a very difficult position because if a condominium wanted to change boilers, what did it do? The community began to save money, and placed a small leg next to the state; not so much, it may have been just a few thousand forints, but over the years, with interest, it was able to widen into a large amount of support, making it possible to change an average boiler. Now, if we want to restore this system, and I want it back, then what ministry do you suggest we turn to? So I tried to collect and nail important technical questions here, and I ask them because I also asked them at ministerial hearings, but we could not obtain a hundred percent briefing answers to these questions, so I look forward to your briefing on this matter with great respect. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2022-05-23-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-05-23-99	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Firstly, I would also like to respond briefly, for example, to Mr Vajda, who was surprised that the Prime Minister was making decisions. [[On the sign of Zoltán Vajda:]] He said that he was surprised that the Prime Minister would make the decisions when it comes to economic issues. I think it is right for the Prime Minister to surround himself with smart people, either in the advisory round or in the ministerial round or in the heads of the National Bank, for example, and when listening to everyone at the government meeting, a decision will be made in the interest of the Hungarian people and Hungarian businesses. I think this is a good model of economic governance, but many of my fellow Members have also mentioned the economy, including Dániel Z. Carpathian, how many ministries will deal with economic issues in some way. I think that this is very much related to the other issues that you have raised: education, health, family policy, any housing issues, because it has been clearly proven in recent years that if the economy is going well, if Hungarian businesses are going well, if wages are going well, if taxes are falling, if the performance of the economy is increasing as it has been in recent years, then more and more money is being made for education, health, family policy and other areas. I am mistaken about the socialist-liberal crisis management that took me away from people before 2010, which took me away from people as a result of a bad crisis management, because he could not do anything about the growth of the economy, so many people became unemployed, many businesses went bankrupt, many people were on the side of the road. I think that it is the right economic policy, and in the current crisis, in a difficult economic situation, in a post-poverty situation, it is important to place great forces on the economy, because if the Hungarian economy is managed to keep on that growing path and make it successful and resilient, make it resistant to crises, then there will be more and more money in those areas. Like every year since 2013, there has been more money for education, health and family policy compared to the previous year. So I see a pattern, a model, a past success story that is worth continuing in this way, but perhaps now we are facing even more economic challenges than we would have experienced in 2016-17-18 or 19. Just like this year, there is 400 billion forints more to health than last year. We're talking huge amounts. This is due to the fact that the rest of the family support was also due to the fact that last year there was 7 percent economic growth and that we can focus on these important areas, not on different debt, not on credit, not on different austerity packages, but on economic growth. Congresswoman Scarf said that if she knew what was in this law, she would have proposed an amendment to the law on the lists of ministries. On the same day, the two laws were submitted, Congresswoman, at the same moment, so the two could have been read side by side, and I think the picture would have been clearer. [[16.40]] But we are not getting the EU money not because of what you said, but because of the Child Protection Act, honourable Member. [[Defiance on the opposition side.]] Let me get this straight. If you look back at the timeline, you can see how the European Commission stood with the signatures, how it initiated a dialogue with the Hungarian government on the recovery fund, and you will clearly see when it stopped this dialogue. It's been signed before. And when was this moment? When we voted in favour of the Child Protection Act [[Z. Carpathian to Daniel:]] Dániel Z. Kárpát voted in favour, so I do not understand why he yells at us, so when we voted in favour of the Child Protection Act. You also mentioned family affairs, Congressman. Thank God, on the committee, the Minister of Family Affairs was supported by Jobbik. I hope it's a kind of trust, and that's how we're going to go from here. In the committee, my better fellow Member voted in favour of the appointment of the Minister for Families, so he found it appropriate to carry out this task. That must be the position of the faction. Congresswoman, I would ask you to speak of the police in a slightly less discriminating manner. I think the Hungarian police deserve a great deal of respect. Public security has improved very, very much since 2010. In 2010, when the socialists governed, there were more than 400 thousand registered crimes in Hungary, it now fell below 190,000 [[Intercoms. The president's ringing the bell.]] So there was a huge reduction in the crime of registered crime. I think that's a good way to go. Public security has improved very much in Hungary over the past period, and this is very much due to the Ministry of Interior and the police. I think it's right, and they deserve respect and gratitude instead of giving them some kind of negative adjectives. But I would also ask you to respect the elderly, because you want to decide for others when to retire. It's not a stranger to you, one of your politicians wanted to take away the voting rights from the elderly, saying why they were interfering with the development of the future. I understand that this is a kind of fashion or expectation in the Momentum now in the presidential candidate race, where it will soon be the same presidential candidate as the faction. I understand that this is an expectation, but I also think that when you retire, it's not your job, but everyone can decide for themselves I don't know, and we agree that everyone can decide for themselves when they want to retire or how they want to continue their activities. I would like to point out to Mr Z. Kárpat that it was the government before 2010, where the economic crisis could only be dealt with by austerity. They were the ones who took everything from families, took everything from businesses, and even gave a lot of tasks to municipalities without funding. Member László Keresztes also regularly speaks about rural self-governments, but it was the government that gave many tasks to rural self-governments without funding. They have been given to maintain it, to maintain it, to perform a task, but not to be accompanied by state funding. I don't think that's right. I think that we are one week wiser than the general debate, and I think it is clear how this governance structure will be able to address the challenges of the period ahead. I think we agree that we are living in a difficult, crisis-filled time, and therefore the challenges must be addressed. Hungary's appreciation, its value-based policy must be preserved, and the challenges ahead of us must be nature protection, the war in our neighbourhood, the epidemic, the migration or economic difficulties, all of which can manage to be adequate, national, and Hungarian people and families to benefit and benefit in Hungary, as we have tried and done in the last 12 years. I think that the current structure is not only suitable for this task, but it is clear from the personality composition, committee hearings and such legislative proposals that basically, as the Prime Minister said, there is much work to be done, but all this work, all this work, can lead to success for our entire country, with which all of you, even your voters, would have been much better off than if you had been chosen. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-05-23-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa in the time frame available to him.
u2022-05-23-101	Mr President, Dear House, But I have missed a series of good eye-opening conversations with my fellow Member Nacsa. My colleague spoke of 400,000 registered crimes in relation to 2010, and now, if I have written it right, 190,000. I ask you, if in the meantime the infringement threshold has been raised from HUF 50,000 to HUF 50,000, then a few hundred thousand crimes will be eliminated or remain on the grid. I get it, and I'm not gonna argue that if there's any success, we shouldn't be against it. It's cool to have one. But by increasing the infringement threshold to more than one, you're distorting this statistics in the way you're presenting it. So if you compare the data after the threshold increase, it's competitive, so at least it's incorrect. Speaking of value choices, please tell me when one of you will touch the 28 500 HUF minimum pension that has been frozen for the past decade. That, my fellow Member, would be a value choice. And linking the child protection referendum to various sanctions in Brussels would be a legitimate idea if you could send a link to my mailbox by 24 o'clock tonight, which contains declared documents from the Commission, which mention your child protection referendum and which would be subject to sanctions that we are talking about. The thing is, I just read the last committee paperwork today. Some things I didn't like about him, for example, certain criteria for the pension system didn't please me, but I didn't meet your referendum for child protection. If you know about this and there is one, then I'm asking you to get this to my mailbox by midnight, and then we can continue this conversation. Until then, I'm sure I don't want to contribute to building such a fog-shriveling vision, because if you believe what you're saying, there's a real problem at the government fronts. Thank you for your attention.
u2022-05-23-102	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Vajda, MSZP Group.
u2022-05-23-103	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you very much, Mr Nacsa, for listening so kindly to what I am saying. It's just that it might have been me, or maybe it was you who misinterpreted it consciously, or maybe it was just a coincidence. Well, I was sitting on the committee, so I know what was said about the triangle, in the three corners of which Matolcsy, Mihály Varga and Márton Nagy are sitting in the middle of it, and I quote the Minister-designate Viktor Orbán, who makes all the decisions. I have no problem with a Prime Minister making a decision, if he did as you said, to listen to colleagues, to the ministers of state, to the ministers of state, or to the President of the Central Bank, and that is how he makes the decision, but that is not how Martin the Great said it in the Committee on Budgets. He said that even though they are in the three corners of the triangle, they are responsible for the development of the economy according to the curve, but all decisions start with the Prime Minister. That's what he said, and I think it's absurd for a prime minister with a legal degree to think so, especially in a situation like this. I would use the last few seconds to tell you that we are all very happy that the first quarter of GDP growth was indeed a very high, 8.2 percent. We are all happy about this, because we share the joy of our country, of its happiness. But we agree that this is going to take a long time to say good-bye, don't we? So that there might be a technical recession in the next two quarters. So the joy is common, but unfortunately, there is something to be done with sorrow, and with the decision-making that we have heard, I do not think it is possible to fight it. I just finished my last second. Thank you very much.
u2022-05-23-104	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. I would like to ask Mr State Secretary if he would like to speak and respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Asbej on Tristan's mark:]] Yes, Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2022-05-23-105	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill before us relates to the law on the listing of the ministries of the new fifth Orbán government. The new governance structure, as emphasised in the general debate, will be adapted to the challenges of the present. The Prime Minister is now forming a government to take its composition and structure out of the four years ahead. Hungary needs a government that is best suited to meet the test of the country. The aim of the future new government is also to provide answers to the questions of the economic crisis in Europe that has developed as a result of the war situation, which will enable Hungary to preserve its achievements in recent years. As a consequence, we continue to believe that not only the government structure, not the name of the ministries, the number of ministries, but also the work in them make the government fit for leadership. As was the case during the previous general debate during the debate on the law on the listing of ministries, there is now a debate on how many and what kind of ministries should be. [[16.50]] Perhaps there is no complete consensus in the opposition's benches either, Mrs Éva Sebők and Mr Lóránt Keresztes would like to have a separate ministry, so more ministries, Mr Zoltán Vajda, if I understood correctly that there are too many ministries dealing with economic areas, we will stick to the view that the level of government structure does not decide how successfully a government leads a given policy area. Some areas have surfaced. If we look at the results of the last 12 years in the field of green policy, when there was no separate environmental portfolio, then we can see in the area of climate protection that domestic gross greenhouse gas emissions are 34 percent lower than 1990 levels in 2020, in the area of renewable energy, i.e. sustainability, we have increased the consumption of renewable energy-based electricity by 84 percent since 2010. In the field of nature conservation and conservation, we see that in recent years nearly 6500 hectares have been planted. The annual budget of National Park Directors has increased fourfold by 2010. I could continue with these results. Here's another important result: within the framework of the climate and nature conservation action plan, the A total of 128 thousand tonnes of illegal waste has been cleaned up by the programme. From 1 July 2021, the placing on the market of certain disposable plastics has been prohibited. In the framework of the National Environment Programme 2015-2020, the number of agricultural areas involved in organic farming has increased by about two and a half times. The water utility sector has also been mentioned. The government has established a reconstruction fund for the renovation of the water utility sector, aged networks, which has provided an annual HUF 1.5 billion resource since 2018. In addition, HUF 3.5 billion was allocated to local authorities in the framework of the proposal to improve the energy efficiency of water utilities. These are all achievements that have been a significant step forward in the field of green policy, sustainability, environmental protection, compared to the time of the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments, when this sector has received nothing but no attention or resources. Do you know the difference between the Orbán governments and the successful green policy, and the Gyurcsány governments failed to see what the other difference was between the two governments and the period? The fact that during the Gyurcsány governments there was a separate environmental wallet, and during the Orbán governments there was no separate environmental wallet, yet it was able to achieve these successes. Turning to the area of health: in the 2022 budget, some HUF 2884 billion is available for health purposes. Nearly two-and-a-half times as much of the government's spending on health as it did in 2010. Do you know the difference between the Bajnai government and the Orbán governments, apart from this result and resource allocation? That the Bajnai governments, during the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments, had a separate health portfolio, but they led the Hungarian health care to a dive flight, and during the Orbán governments, the policy management of the healthcare area was integrated into another ministry, but we managed to achieve that, depending on the time spent in practice, basic salary in healthcare increased by an average of two and a half times and increased by 2023 compared to 2020. We have been able to achieve that since 2010, the government has renewed 91 hospitals, 54 clinics and 23 new clinics. So, once again, it's not about the name of the administrative unit, it's about commitment and professional political competence. Dear Parliament, Good governance is based on good division of labour, for which a reasonable and realistic division of tasks is essential. This bill and its amendments are intended, inter alia, to carry out this coordinating work. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát asked a very specific professional question as to which ministry the rental-renewal programme and the area of college development will belong within housing issues. In this regard, I can give you the information that these will be subject to precise provisions in the Ministerial Statute Regulations, that, if the powers are not yet clarified, I would suggest that these issues be subject to a new condition. The pace of government formation is moving rapidly, and the Statute Regulations are likely to be expected in the near future. In addition to changes in the technical and editorial nature, the legislative committee's amendment also clarified the tasks and powers of future ministers. Among these, I would like to refer to the two points of the amending proposal, which are the LVII of 1995 on water management. they concern law and the extension of public tasks related to water and water facilities with a new function, the technical design and preparation of water works and water facilities. This new function will be carried out by the Minister for Public Investments. Similarly, there is scope for clarification regarding the order in which Community wine marketing aid is carried out, as it will be removed from the agricultural support institution system in the future and will be entrusted to the Minister for Support for the Development of Government Strategies and for the Coordination of Social Policy. We have stated on several occasions, but it cannot be emphasized enough that the development of the capital is of paramount importance to the government. The aim of the amendment is to increase the effectiveness of this work, with the aim of enabling the government to carry out the tasks related to key developments in Budapest, in addition to a non-profit company owned by 100% of the Hungarian State or a non-profit company owned by 100% of the Hungarian State, by the Minister for Public Investments. The preparation of the construction project is an exception, since it can only be achieved by a non-profit company owned by 100% of the Hungarian State. It should also be noted that the so-called reliability assessment is clarified. In the case of the National Security Services Act, the proposal, like the current law on the law on police, provides for the possibility for the government to exempt certain bodies or groups of employment from the reliability test in a regulation. The proposal also covers the regulation of certain public building tasks, when it ensures the government's freedom of organisation by referring to regulation at regulation level in respect of a particular government function, to determine which body or company is in charge of the task. This public education is a common codification technique, in which case any government body or company belonging to the government organisation may be designated by a decree to perform a specific task. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.) The proposal also provides that the organisation of mass events is exempted from the application of the rules for the recording of personal data of natural persons intending to enter the mass event against a ticket to enter the mass event until the 31st of December 2022. The amendment reflects the need to ensure further preparation time from several law-makers after the submission of the bill, and we therefore allow a six-month delay compared to the first season of the re-opening of mass events in order to guarantee a smooth transition between regulations. In addition, the amendment sets out other clarifications under the rules applicable to top political leaders. Thus, it is proposed that a State Secretary may be appointed to perform the tasks of Chief Advisor of National Security, which does not mean the creation of a new position of State Secretary, but that a position of State Secretary may be designated as Chief Advisor of National Security. [[17.00]] In addition, the proposal settles the conflict of interest rules for public limited liability companies representing national strategic objectives whose equity securities have been transferred to the ownership rights of a public trust fund with a public service mission. Dear Parliament, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The government structure laid down by the Act on the Listing of the Ministries of Hungary and the bill before us is in line with the electoral expectations of the Hungarians on 3 April, meeting the challenges facing Hungary and meeting the changes in the world. In view of this, I would like to ask you once again to support the proposal with your vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-05-23-106	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. We will continue our work and inform you that the decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. After the agenda, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát from the Jobbik Group applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-05-23-107	Mr President, Dear House, We have touched on a number of topics on Parliament's meeting day, but we see that a very important issue on the resolution of the so-called emergency receives very little attention from the government, and this is the slow flow of evictions, executions, auctions and on-the-spot actions so far. For a very long time, we experienced that while we, the right-wingers and our legal aid team were out in the field, our voice did not always get so far, then several opposition parties caught up in the same activity, and together we were able to articulate so loudly with civilians that it became a moratorium on eviction for a long time. However, what we see is that a lot of cases, a lot of cases, and it's not exaggerating at all under this moratorium, is that after 1 June, after a guarantee for a moratorium in full, all hell breaks loose, and there can be up to tens of thousands of unattended evictions from which I would like to note that since 2010, there have been over 23,000 in Hungary. A socio-social disaster has developed, and the government has always tolerated it hiding in its own bubble of opinion and even agreed quarterly quotas with the executive chamber during worse periods. So the executives agreed on how many people could be thrown out of their homes on a quarterly basis, the abuse of which by the Executive Faculty over the last few months has, of course, been very pronounced, with a government top management merger. We can therefore see that, although I have received the answer to my specific, precise question during the ministerial hearings, that there is nothing to see here, because there is no foreign currency lending in Hungary, I would like to say with respect that although it is not possible to pay a foreign currency loan in accordance with previous rules, this is a fact, but still the former foreign currency loans that have been converted into forints are the same depressing burden for families. The hardest thing is that, in relation to these alleged debts and the excesses of the enforcement system, this government has basically done nothing. Many times we have met with dubious cases, enforcement teams of which two have tried to collect the same claim, we have often met with a family that has already paid, has already paid, but still demanded more and more. The recurring problem is that they are unable to reach these executives, they cannot get a balance from them, the debt of this family on paper, according to the executive agency, how much and very unworthy human situations arise, and free legal assistance is not widely available to those involved. What we see is that in the midst of the most difficult months of an epidemiological emergency, we have made humanitarian proposals which are not right-wing, not left-wing proposals, but simply normal-thinking people do not think that during a quarantine period when a citizen in difficulty cannot go to work, so we normal people do not think that they should have their minimum income or pensions blocked by 33 or 50 percent. We see that when we suggested that these deductions should not be made at least at the minimum level of the minimum wage, we could not reach the government's sensitivity radar at all, so we could not get a reaction to at least temporarily exempt these people. We say that this type of lending has a huge responsibility for the banking system at the time, financial supervision, then governments and political leaders who allowed all this to happen or assisted it, but it is certainly not a solution to beat it on the people concerned now with interest. So as regards the bans on executives, I continue to propose that the 33 percent and 50 percent ban should not work below a certain level of income, since that minimum income is needed to feed, live, replace or die. However, we also need to see that the situation is not orderly. If the eviction moratorium expires and nothing follows, we must prepare for mass disaster situations. I would like to draw everyone's attention to the fact that we are at the dawn of a crisis, so we are not in the middle of the crisis, at best, at the beginning or midway. What we see is that if our fellow countrymen are in such an unfair and unworthy situation, they will not be able to re-establish their former situation. That is why we are calling for an extension of the eviction moratorium until we can solve this whole problem together. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik, Dialogue and DK.]]
u2022-05-23-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr János Bencze also came forward to speak after the agenda from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-05-23-109	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you for the floor. The title of my speech is that there is gas in the country, more precisely, no gas. I'm getting calls from more and more small settlements about a problem with government-priced LPG. We can say that it exists or doesn't exist, that I heard here as a miracle weapon, that the official price, the price stop, the reduction of the rent exists, but somehow it doesn't get to the small villages. Who doesn't he get to? It does not reach the people where Hungary's most disadvantaged inhabitants live, elderly retired Hungarians, gypsy people who cannot get a job because of the road network indicated in my previous speech, it is simply impossible to get into jobs. They find that they do not have access to the LPG gas bottle at the price of around 5200 forints, because they do not have any gas. What is the solution for them? They're trying to get to larger settlements, but they can't actually use a gas tank for public transport, so it's impossible and they're trying to replace it locally. That they do not receive 5200 forints of gas, on the leave, but the local retailers contracted with MOL do not get gas exchanges either, so they simply do not get it. But the Hungarian people are resourceful, yet they get gas in the countryside, because they can't hear news that they can't cook, they'd have such problems, they'd take it more expensive. We can say that at market prices, we can say anything, but they buy it without any reduction in the rent. How did the clever Hungarian man solve this? The cost reduction applies only to the 11.5 kg bottle. Some companies charge 10 kilos of 90 ounces and sell them for 7-8 thousand forints. There is another solution: they deliver them with cars and put the fair merchant profit on them, they also sell these bottles for 7-8 thousand forints. Nothing else is asked of this two-thirds government by these people living in the countryside and the small gas exchange plants operating there, that if they have already guaranteed an official price, that if they have already announced that if they say before the country-to-world that they can buy gas cheaply in Hungary, whether it is landline or bottled, they should also be able to access it. But that's not what's happening. It's an even worse version. It's a phone call I made this morning. It's a gas loan shark. In a very simple way, food entrepreneurs have discovered that they are called entrepreneurs, in quotes, that there is no gas bottle in the local exchange plant, they run out of the car, which brings them, they deliver gas for 11-12 thousand forints. If you like it, you buy it in the country, if you don't like it, you don't buy it. This is a typical example of a poor legislation, a poorly implemented legislation, filled with loopholes, what it has produced for people in the countryside, not cheap gas, only the dream of cheap gas, but expensive gas. So I would ask the two-thirds Members who are not sitting against me to do something about it, to resolve it, if they have already promised the people in the countryside that the reduction will reach them, to get it in reality. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and DK.]] [[17.10]]
u2022-05-23-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, László Varju, from the DK Group, has applied for a speech after the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-05-23-111	Thank you very much. Mr President, I use the possibility of regularly reporting on events in my constituency, the Újpest and the Angyalföld area, in essence, to draw attention to all the experiences and, above all, good experience that can affect decision-makers, and to see if we can pass on the methods and opportunities we have tried. I would like to draw your attention to one of these, because I would like to present to you now a series of events, which, I think, in this regard, is significantly greater than this constituency. And this is about the fact that in January he had an allergic attack and a 7-year-old boy died at a gas station in Újpest. Although rescue units rushed to the scene, they tried to save his life for a long time, but they couldn't save his life. After the tragedy, many experts and, among them, the Hungarian Children's Rescue Foundation pointed out that the so-called anaphylactic hypersensitivity reaction could lead to asphyxiation and cardiac arrest within minutes. The foundation said that in the event of an allergic attack, not calcium, but the pre-filled adrenaline self-administering pen, which helps, the EpiPen Junior. In February, the Újpest municipality decided to acquire and provide this equipment, this tool, medicine, for its kindergartens, kindergartens and schools, so that it could be administered in case of severe, even fatal, allergic reactions. And how right they were to do that! Last week, the tragedy was almost repeated in Bratislava kindergarten in Újpest on Friday, but because of the local government's earlier caring decision, lifesaving adrenaline was available on the spot. The kindergarten teacher recognized the situation in time and reacted with a fantastic presence of spirit, as she immediately gave the boy the necessary injection, who, as a result, was saved. I think that this event perfectly shows that a city, in this case, the district management means much more than managing a city. We believe that man is the most important. Despite the numerous government decisions that have hit the local governments, we have actually introduced such a drug into our educational institutions, which in this case has saved lives. Therefore, I am now initiating that this should be available in all educational institutions, not only in this constituency, but as a result of the government's decision, so that we can save lives, and this medicine should be available if necessary. As I said, man is the most important, and this means taking care of people together, making it easier for people in Újpest or saving their lives. I therefore turn to the government with a written question, and I trust that, on the basis of the expectations of the voters, they will be able to make a decision that can save lives, not just in Newpesten. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from DK, LMP and Jobbik.]]
u2022-05-23-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Zoltán Varga also applied for the post-meeting speech from the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-05-23-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I don't know how many people saw this movie. It was both shocking and a very good movie, but maybe later, because there's something discreet about it, I could say that, but actually, let's face it, put our hands on our hearts, it's a pretty sick thing if the first man in the country, the leader of a supposedly responsible government, is going through some crazy war rhetoric in 12 years, that it doesn't go by, like, seven or so, when the news doesn't say that the Prime Minister smells gunpowder, that he's going to go to war, or that he's going to start a battle, maybe he's dealing with cokes and sellers. For more than a decade, the government has been at war with everything and everyone in a country, and we know very well that Viktor Orbán has a separate personal guard, and he has a whole army, and yet he is at war with an old, 90-year-old uncle, refugees, Gyurcsák, the opposition, the dissidents, but with almost every minority, with the good of the surrounding countries, but mostly with reason, Viktor Orbán is at war. The Prime Minister seems to be playing more and more enthusiastic generals, trying to make a victory out of the ugly failures of international politics, the fact that he is slowly becoming completely unbearable on the stage of Europe and remains alone. Despite the fact that the country and society, after 12 years of militating tone and a permanent struggle, would finally want peace, peace and construction, the Prime Minister wishes to continue his struggles, after his illegal victory, noticeably. It is also an excellent proof of everything that has been made today, and that it is also a small film that has spread and is uploaded in social media, a government film showing the members of the new government. The text under the short film, while we can see the photos of the members of the government, is already creepy in itself. The text is nothing more than a movie title, the Fight Club, and this basically tells us everything about Orbán's system, the government, and even its hobby. It doesn't take much imagination to get a picture of the policy of the next government cycle. No, it is not the construction, it is not the reconciliation, it is not the consolidation and it is not even the European path that Viktor Orbán chooses, but another four years of war for Hungary. The militant tone seems to remain unchanged, and the war with Europe, one side of the country, is likely to continue for the next four years. But let's not go past what I started with, but the Fight Club, it's a movie title. The film deals with a schizophrenic situation, and I have to add, with a brilliant cast, look at it, if you haven't seen it, Brad Pitt is one of the main characters, in which the star, who is an otherwise excellent player, builds a non-existent, only tangible world in his head, in which he is constantly struggling to prove himself, and let's face it, he always stays behind everything and everyone. Does this look familiar to you? 'Cause I think it's gotta be familiar. And, well, the analysis of one of the known film critics tells us everything about the spirituality of the film. This is how he writes about the film, and allow me to quote it precisely:. The protagonists launched an attack on the system by releasing their animal instincts, creating cataclysms. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We understand what this is about, don't we? Because it is already shocking that the last 12 years of the government, on the part of the Hungarian government, have passed with a permanent war rhetoric, the voice of the government is also shocking, but the message of the new government, the club of the warriors, is completely creepy for Hungarian society, Hungary, and I am not far from reality if I say that we are looking at a crazy, schizophrenic world, where the members of the Hungarian government may be preparing to release their animal instincts. We don't know that, but I do know that I can only congratulate you on that. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK, LMP and Jobbik.]]
u2022-05-23-114	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will continue with the speeches after the agenda. Mr Balázs Barkóczi also applied for a post- Agenda speech from the DK Group. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-05-23-115	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Fellow Members! A week ago, I asked for the floor here in the walls of this House to draw attention to the ever-increasing shortage of kindergarten educators throughout the country. I told you then that only in my constituency, or Budapest XV. in its districts and IV. 27 kindergarten educators in part of its district are unfilled, and 14 retired kindergarten educators are working part-time. Of course, as I said in my speech, this cannot be a long-term solution. [[17.20]] After last week's speech, a lot of people contacted me by text, e-mail, personal complaints, comments and their own stories. Many people felt that I was talking about something in the walls of this House that we don't usually talk about. Let me quote from one of these letters for a longer time, since it is not only instructive, but also clear as day what this government failed to do to protect educators, including kindergarten teachers, during the pandemic. I am 49 years old, the mother of a college boy and a high school girl, thus begins the letter, the author of which, of course, contributed to me quoting her literally here in the House. So far, the education of my children and the care of my family have been a priority, but at the age of 46 the time has finally come for me to learn to be a kindergarten educator. Since I knew that I needed a language exam to get my degree, I applied for a language course at the first opportunity, which I paid for 148 thousand forints in the first hour. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The letter also shows that the lady writing the letter works as a pedagogical assistant for a net salary of HUF 160,000 a month. Yeah, you heard me for 160,000 forints. The second class was already held online due to quarantine, and neither we nor the language teacher were prepared for it, so, in the end, instead of the 100 language classes I paid for, the language school could provide us with only 30. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The letter also shows what expenses were charged to the family register of the woman working as a pedagogical assistant and her husband who also worked as a public servant. It began with the need for both their children to provide the technical means to participate in online education. Since the mother was in college at the time, that meant practically three laptops. It continued with the tragic loss of both grandfathers within a year. One died in Covid, the other one died of complications of a long, severe disease. Only the cost of the two funerals consumed more than 600 thousand forints. Later, the mother caught the coronal virus, so she was out of work for several weeks. Nevertheless, he graduated from college with a 4.6 average, but he has not yet received his degree due to a lack of a language exam. Ladies and gentlemen, Perhaps we can all agree that in order for the law to link the transfer of the diploma to a foreign language knowledge, this is correct and correct, Hungary is doing very poorly in foreign language knowledge anyway. In addition, learning a foreign language, another culture, not only makes people more open, but also contributes to finding information not only from the public media occupied and destroyed by Fidesz over the past 12 years, which has become a lie factory. Although the government did not provide free testing, free vaccination or free protective equipment to employees of public education institutions, despite the request of the Democratic Coalition, it also provided language examination amnesty for those who could not receive their diplomas because of Covid for a period of 15 years, but for other reasons, and then led this out without delay, just when those who spent five out of these six semesters in uncertainty, characterised by unexpected and unpredictable situations, spent five out of these six semesters before the state exams, and when Covid also increased the fees for language courses by 15-20 percent on average and increased even more. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, you once again struck the knot with a sword instead of trying to unravel it. Most of the students who are currently under state examination, who have typically attended correspondence training or online training, including many kindergarten educators, have had a difficult life with Covid, lost their jobs, loved ones, and are in a hopeless financial situation due to the continued lack of government assistance. If at any point, they could use some help, even though it's coming from the government that's acting like a lousy duck under Covid. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2022-05-23-116	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, From the Fidesz Group, Mr Péter Ovádi has applied for a speech after the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-05-23-117	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Here's a lighter subject. The European Capital of Culture was established more than 30 years ago on the proposal of an actress and cultural minister of Greek origin Melina Mercouri and has since been one of the most important producers of EU cultural policy. Allow me to invite you to a journey of time. I would like to give you a taste of how Veszprém won the title of European Capital of Culture, what this honor means, where we are now, just over six months before the beginning of the holiday year. In 2016, it was decided to run for the European Capital of Culture, and in 2017 Veszprém will apply for the title, not as a single city, but together with the Bakony-Balaton region. The year is December 2017, with a total of seven cities applying up to the deadline. Of these, the international expert committee put Debrecen, Győr and Veszprém's competition in the final in February 2018, and in December 2018 Veszprém was recommended to the European Capital of Culture. At the time it seemed that Veszprém could own this title alone in 2023, but because of the coronal virus epidemic, even two cities, Temesvár and Elefszína will celebrate next year. The tender was preceded by a tremendous amount of common thinking and work. The five pillars on which it is based are community building, volunteering, tradition, innovation and sustainability. It was particularly important for us to develop a culture-oriented approach in addition to infrastructure developments. The basics were already there, as we have festivals such as Utcazene, Veszprém Festival, Auer Festival or Gizella Days. Building on these and implementing new ones, Veszprém and the Bakony-Balaton region become a truly diverse cultural scene. As a result, the Hungarian Motion Picture Festival and the existing festivals have been held for the third year. Until 31 December 2021 116 municipalities decided to join, including all 11 localities in the region. Together with the associated settlements, there will be a lasting integration that we hope will be a valuable and real link after 2023. The main objective is to explore, preserve and create opportunities for cultural values and increase value through cooperation. Let us not offer crumbs, but place a full wage on the table for the people living here and for the visitors. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The project will involve spectacular investments in infrastructure. For example, the renovation of the Heim Pál Children's Hospital, which was an old wound to the heart of the Veszprémians. In the future, a new cultural and movement centre will be created with a new function, which will provide them with a place for associations and groups of motion arts, which are scattered throughout the city, in a house. It is planned to serve as a new home for classic ballet, folk dance and wall climbers as well, and with the help of landscape architects a new garden is also possible for families to spend their free time in a quiet park near downtown. The renovation of the Ruttner house under 8 Jókai utca is also progressing, the history of which also speaks for itself, and now in a new robe the Veszprém people will get back the iconic building of the long street. In the future, the protected building awaits the visitors as hostel-type accommodations. It has already been handed over, and students have also taken possession of the so-called Digital Knowledge Centre, which is located in the city centre of Veszprém. It used to be a school and a bank account, but the building is mostly known to locals because of its former meat store function. With the support of the European Capital of Culture 2023, the building was restored to its educational function, since it was originally built as a school at the end of the 1920s. Students can learn again, develop their skills within the walls of the center. Robotics, virtual reality, automation, artificial intelligence, which you can learn from Veszprém and from the regions. They can design 3D and print smaller souvenirs. We believe in community and common thinking, therefore VEB2023 Zrt. help and involve cultural, gastronomic and sports businesses and municipalities in the region with open and entrepreneurial spirit. For example, there are a lot of such proposals, and I can't list them now, but we'll be waiting for everyone in Veszprém in 2023. Thank you so much for listening.
u2022-05-23-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Member of the LMP Group, spoke after the agenda. There you go. You have the floor. [[17 .30]]
u2022-05-23-119	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Indeed, in my post-scheduled speeches, I usually talk about the affairs of my country, Pécs, and I will do so now. We all know that the Karolina research in Pécs is one of Hungary's largest industrial landscapes, and that the prolonged recultivation of this is causing very serious and serious environmental damage to the city of Pécs and carries extremely serious risks. This Karolina project has a really huge landscape area of 120 hectares, about 10 million cubic metres of material is needed to recultivate, upload, the area is one and a half times the historic downtown of Pécs, the maximum depth is 80 meters. Here the works, the mining works ended already in 2004, and in 2005 the first decision on regeneration was made, which set the original deadline in 2009. This recultivation deadline has been pushed continuously, as a result of various lobbying activities, up to the time limit of 2029, and now, as planned, this work will be completed permanently in 2032 if there is no further intention of stalling. Two persons responsible for carrying out the works: the Hungarian State and Pannon Thermal Power Plant Zrt. At present, the first stage of regeneration, the first stage of the work, is being carried out here by the thermal power plant. At the same time, this activity has clearly slowed spectacularly over the past one or two years, and the thermal power plant has also indicated in particular that the sources of work are lacking to enable this to be done in time and at the right speed. At the same time, there are very, very serious environmental risks, as, at the beginning of the regeneration, vegetation has been removed from this huge landscape, so it is quite amazing to pollinate, which not only poses a very serious problem in terms of air quality in the neighbourhood of the exterior, but also in the whole city of Pécs, and here it is a serious problem because of the poor, unjustified angle of the previous slope design, the danger of land movements. The city of Pécsbánya is in particular threatened by this situation. It is therefore of fundamental interest that the work can be completed here as soon as possible and that the risk of land movements can be reduced as far as possible. Earlier in the central budget, the government proposed billions of forints to carry out the regeneration, but without justification these funds were withdrawn and not used and transferred in two budgets, so practically the government withdrew from work despite the obligations, left Pannon Thermal Power Plant Zrt. alone, but the company also apparently slowed down the activity. Obviously, the most important thing would be that this work should be carried out as soon as possible, so that the regeneration can be completed as soon as possible, but this requires the government to re-establish the central resources for this work and participate in parallel with the thermal power plant in carrying out the work. The parade area is available, it could fit compared to the current one, say ten times more machines and trucks, this work could be completed relatively quickly, in the interests of the city of Pécs, if the right government decision was made. In the previous term, I asked the Secretary of State responsible for energy policy at that time, Péter Kaderják, several times, and he also promised that the appropriate decision-makers of the government would be willing to examine risk factors, conditions of work on the ground, and would be willing to put this issue on the agenda, how to speed up this work. Mr.Péter Kaderjak is no longer in office, but I am very confident that the new government will feel the task of doing this work, because the Hungarian State is obliged to do so and will perceive the serious environmental damage caused by this prolonged recultivation to the city of Pécs. I myself will endeavour to initiate this local meeting as soon as possible, to make the proposals, to which the government can provide resources, and I very much hope that all politicians, all pro-government politicians who can help in this work with their political weight, lobbying activities, will feel their own task, and we will be able to quickly find a solution for the recultivation of one of Hungary's largest landscape wounds, not only in Pécsbánya, but also in the entire Pécs Érdek. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2022-05-23-120	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, From the Jobbik Group, Mr Zoltán Sas has applied for a speech after the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-05-23-121	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On Saturday, it was the day of Hungarian defence to remember the heroes who sacrificed their lives for their country, and also to remember the soldiers who today protect the nation and, if necessary, defend their country. Allow me, as chairman of the National Security Committee of the National Assembly, to give a special welcome to the staff of the Military National Security Service, wishing them effective work and good health. Dear fellow Members, Many say that XX. It was a century of war. What I'm saying is that right now we're living next door to the war of the century. This war has changed the world, it has changed Hungary, and we must prepare for these changes, and we must respond to them. War is no good for anyone. The war has winners, but people can never be on the side of the winner. For what does the mother who lost her child gain, what does the woman who lost her husband, what do the orphaned children gain, or what do the soldiers who have returned from the battlefields lose? Nothing. Unfortunately, in Hungarian history, our ancestors have experienced this many times. Thus, it is a very important objective for us that we must strive to ensure that neither our country nor any member of the Hungarian nation is affected by the destruction of war. As a middle-right conservative politician, that's what I'm gonna try to do, that's what I believe, that's what I'm gonna say. At the same time, we must not forget Julius Caesar's warnings: "If you want peace, prepare for war." I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The military development programme is not only our obligation arising from our NATO federal system, but also our country's well-conceived national interest. We must continue to develop forces. We need a modern and efficient Hungarian army, and we need dedicated Hungarian soldiers who can use these tools, if necessary, if necessary, if necessary. The Russian-Ukrainian war has brought countless lessons, and perhaps the most important of them is that determined patriots can compete against a much stronger force with unwavering combat morals. We can see that modern military tools, often with asymmetric warfare, can be used to prevent, or even repress, a advance in substance. The war experience in our neighbourhood must be integrated into the Hungarian military development programme, both in terms of training, reinforcements and even in territorial protection strategies. The guidelines are also clear in the area of arms procurement. It is necessary to obtain tools that improve or replace the skills of our defence. Modern anti-aircraft, armoured capability, high-precision missile artillery and more and more combat drones used in military operations can be the direction of development. But I don't want to define this, because it's not a matter of politics, it's not a matter of politicians, it's not a matter of economics, it's a job of soldiers, they can tell us what tools they need to protect their country. We politicians must ensure that these instruments are available, and we must guarantee that transparency, cleanliness, and that this can be done without corruption. Dear fellow Members, Hungary's defence is a common national cause that cannot depend on party politics or on the economic interests of some players in the financial world. Don't forget, the home before everything. Thank you so much for listening.
u2022-05-23-122	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Dávid Dócs has applied for a post- Agenda speech from the Group of our countries. Feel free to put the microphone on. Time will start from there when I give the word. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-05-23-123	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The water runs, but the problem stays. Last week, I spoke about a similar incident in the House, as we heard the pollution that unfortunately happened in the eastern part of the county of Nógrád caused the destruction of the entire life of Dobroda, and then the wildlife of the river Ipoly was damaged. In my speech today, I would like to draw attention to a similar matter, with so much difference that it causes huge and still unresolved problems a little further east in Borsod County. [[17.40]] As I mentioned earlier here in Parliament, the upper course of Sajó was just an ecological disaster before our eyes, and it is happening today, since 80 days after the pollution, unfortunately, there has not been any solution or problem management. The Slovak government is idly watching a river's wildlife die, which also has a serious impact on nature. The Hungarian government is also idly watching our northern neighbour do nothing to solve the problem. We cannot afford the comfort of waiting any longer, and the living world will solve for itself what human negligence, ignorance has caused. Although the source of the problem is currently beyond the border, we need to take steps as soon as possible to prevent this crisis from reaching the Hungarian stage of the river Sajó. Unfortunately, nothing happened in a quarter to solve the problem. Iron is approximately 24 times the permitted limit value, while zinc is present 100 times higher in the sediment, together with other heavy metals. As is known, the iron ore mine closed in 2008 has been leaking since February, among other things, water contaminated with iron oxide, nickel, zinc, arsenic and sulphur, which has already caused serious damage to nature in a 30-50-mile section, yet the Ministry of Nature of Slovakia did not order an emergency, even though they have at least such a ministry, even if it does not work. The state ore company responsible for the mine did not stick to the solution and the one-week deadline imposed by itself. The case is considered so null and void that only a few were involved. But the problem is not small, and unfortunately, based on the experience of recent decades, it is not unique. 17 liters of contaminated water per minute now transports more than 2.5 tons of toxic substance into the river per day, causing irreversible damage. The death survey was also carried out by a private contractor in self-serving for a water export permit. Our information comes only from here, because unfortunately, the authorities are just pointing at each other. On 4 April, two months after the disaster, when everything was destroyed 10-15 kilometers from the influence, and the upper course of Sajó was officially considered dead, which could only lead to a very difficult ecological disaster in the further stages of Sajó, including in our country. The Slovak Government has allocated EUR 200,000 to solve this problem, which has not been used since then because of the inertia or inaction of their ministries. If such a trend is to be expected, it is inevitable that we must prepare for the worst, that we must stop the spread of pollution here in Hungary. The Hungarian water issue has been aware of the case since 13 March. Unfortunately, it has not received any information from a similar organisation in the neighbouring state, yet nothing is relevant, and the problem is only escalating. It is our duty to prevent the same disaster from reaching the border of Hungary, and we must take action as soon as possible, so that no toxic substance with water or with the sediment reaches the Hungarian section of Sajó, does not land, does not cause irreversible damage or can only be caused for a difficult and long period of time or can be remedied. Our Hungary is anxious and responsible for our environment, our natural values, calling on the Hungarian Government to take measures that are as soon as possible and more effective. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-05-23-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! Mr István Apáti has also applied for a post- Agenda speech from the Group of our countries. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-05-23-125	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Without pride, but with sufficient self-confidence, I can say that our country is the only party to have real, lifelike, economic proposals that can be put into practice easily, even overnight, in the face of the economic crisis. The economic crisis will not happen, the economic crisis will not happen in the near future; there is already an economic crisis. It is therefore very important to coordinate the various interests of one of the leading sectors of the national economy, the construction sector, in particular the interests of the countryside, rural workers and entrepreneurs, employers and workers, as well as the state. I indicate that there is no need to invent hot water, it is not necessarily necessary to take radical or comprehensive legislative steps, it would be enough to draw up, dust, reread, reinterpret and make the most of the rules already in force. As Deputy Head of the Hungarian Group, as a Member of Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to one of these, and I would like to point out that I will initiate personal consultations with the ministers concerned on this matter. The Public Procurement Act is an extremely important legislation with outstanding national economic weight, and in this there are amazing opportunities, many of which are still untapped. The Hungarian state spends thousands of billions of forints each year through public procurement channels, unfortunately in an extremely wasteful and unthinkable way, often burdened by corruption. Therefore, I will make a proposal here in front of the House and the public in a professional language, and then translate it into Hungarian that contracting authorities may also draw up a call for tenders, in particular in the case of works, for supplies and service orders, especially for outstanding, multibillion, or many ten billion-dollar projects, so that the employment of local, district or regional workers is of such high importance that, either spoken or unspoken, or, in any case, may only be obtained by a contractor, supplier or service provider who undertakes to employ as many of the most of the qualified workers, workers, workers, professional workers or even unemployed who are permanently resident in a local, district or region during the entire period of investment, delivery or service. Then, in the contract to be concluded as a result of the procurement procedure, it must be protected by at least the penalty fixed at a rate of 30% of the total amount of the investment, so that the person who wins the procedure does not, say, start to break those obligations on the day after the contract is signed, but fulfil them, or if he does break them, he may have extremely serious consequences. Translated into Hungarian: in particular, for several years of civil engineering, civil engineering, especially for road construction projects, planned flood storage constructions, planned irrigation programmes in the South Plain or in other parts of the country, which provide continuous work in the order of years or even decades, let us ensure that only and only contractors who undertake to employ the largest number of local workers can obtain this. This would have more beneficial effects. On the one hand, most of those who work in public employment are untrained, rather than earning more, but more than what they are now taking home as a salary. In addition, they do value-making, useful work, they themselves see meaning in daily work, instead of completely useless water raking. Entrepreneurs can obtain adequate labour in both quantitative and qualitative terms. Corruption can be reduced because the money that has been stolen so far, let's face it, has been simply stolen, the vast majority or even all of it has to be spent on wages and public burdens, and the state benefits, as it is likely that good quality work is being done as a result of all these efforts. It is particularly important to consider this proposal now, since the state has already suspended 1100 billion forints of construction, further deferrals or suspensions are expected. The large number of workers that have now been employed in the capital and large cities will come home to the more disadvantaged regions of the country and, if they cannot earn income on a daily basis, it is likely that public safety will suffer. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So as an added bonus, this proposal from our country is also intended to improve public safety, so I suggest that you not only consider this proposal of our country, but also adopt it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of our country.]] [[17.50]]
u2022-05-23-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I thank you for your day's work. The Parliament will resume its meeting tomorrow at 11 a.m. Meeting day's closed. Good-bye, everyone. Good-bye.
