u2022-05-09-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The second day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to everyone who's been monitoring our work. Dear Parliament, Today, May 9th, is Europe's day. In 1950, French Foreign Minister Robert Schuman initiated the creation of the European Coal and Steel Community as an predecessor of today's European Union. In 1985, the Heads of State and Government of European Communities decided that every year the 9th day of Europe would be a joint holiday. The Parliament is the XXXVII. of 2005 by law, the 9th day of May was also declared European Day in Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, In the last 72 years, Europe's ideals and realities have never seen a gap as big as today. Idea never seemed so far away, and reality was never as worrying as it is now. European self-examination is therefore needed today rather than a European celebration. After World War II, the European ideal was to create peace, unity, prosperity and freedom, which was to be served by a policy based on the cooperation of self-determination European national states. In today's European reality, however, there is a war once again instead of peace, instead of defending European political, economic, social and cultural interests, there is self-destruction. The cooperation and unity of the European national states is blurred by empire-building efforts. With the hard work and struggles of Europeans, prosperity and freedom achieved over decades have never been as dangerous as it is now. The war in Ukraine is geographically European war, and the European Union has no moral and diplomatic power to prevent it, just as it does not have the authority and political power to facilitate the end of the war as soon as possible. The European Commission, which arbitraryly transforms the European Union's decision-making system for its benefit, seems to have the bureaucratic power to bring down the economies of the European countries by means of economic sanctions aimed at punishing Russia and proving ineffective in this respect. Today's policy that defines the European Union does not want to recognise, dare to express and enforce European self-interest, and therefore Europe is not a shaper, but a sufferer, of world politics. Europe does not control itself, but is a servant of democratic control mechanisms and economic and political interest groups outside the continent. This is because, ladies and gentlemen, in recent decades, a part of the European intellectual and political elite has betrayed and failed Europe's ideals, thus failing European people every day. Under these circumstances, today's most worthy commemoration of Europe's day is to declare that the Hungarian state will remain loyal to the ideals of Europe under all circumstances and under no circumstances betray or abandon the interests of the Hungarian people. Next year, there will be 200 years for the Americans to announce the Monroe principle, which still applies to this day, against European colonial efforts in 1823. May God help Europe and all Europeans, so that we can all say once, once, on a truly festive day: "Europe belongs to Europeans." [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Dr. Brenner Koloman applauds.]] Dear Parliament, Because of the fractions of Jobbik, MSZP and Momentum, as well as the same number of members of Mi Hazank and Dialogue, the notaries today decided on the order of the speeches by lottery. On the basis of this, Jobbik will be the first to speak in the order of the three ten-membered factions concerned until the beginning of the next ordinary session, followed by the Momentum and then the MSZP Group. In the order of the two six-membered factions, Mi Hazank's group will be the first to speak, and then the Group of Dialogue will be entitled to speak. The result of the draw already concerns the order in which the speeches were given on this day. The order of opposition on the basis of the result of the notary draw shall be 17/B. Paragraph 2 and 3 of the Act lasts until the beginning of the next ordinary session; every subsequent period changes as the group entitled to speak first and the others are moved one way back. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government today, Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor, Minister, please.
u2022-05-09-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It's been two and a half months since the war broke out next door. Hungary's interest and position on this issue has been clear from the outset: it is in our interest to have peace in Ukraine as soon as possible, so we have done everything we can and will do, and we will support all diplomatic efforts that can contribute to the negotiated closure of the war. We make a clear distinction between the attackers and the attackers, so we condemned Russian military aggression against Ukraine. We stand by Ukraine's sovereignty and we are currently carrying out the greatest humanitarian action of all time, in which the number of refugees we have adopted here in Hungary is now approaching 700 thousand. We also supported the adoption of the five sanctions packages so far in Brussels, honourable Members. We have not opened a debate on their effectiveness, as there is no room for reasoning during the war, but we have clearly indicated that there is a red line for us, namely to guarantee the security of Hungary's energy supply. Ladies and gentlemen, Energy supply is neither philosophical nor political, but a matter of hard physical reality. There is a need for natural gas and oil sources, and there is a need for pipelines to bring gas and oil here. Our geographical situation and location, the transport routes created over the decades and the location and availability of natural gas and oil fields determine the security of Hungary's energy supply. And since the energy supply structure of each country is different from that of these derogations, it is no coincidence that the Heads of State or Government of the Member States of the European Union recently agreed in Versailles that only steps on the part of the European Union can be taken in the future that take into account the different energy supply structures of each Member State. This is the hard-to-get European unity that has been interrupted by the European Commission's proposal for an oil embargo. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, This proposal in Brussels is the equivalent of a nuclear bomb dropped on the Hungarian economy, which is able to completely destroy Hungary's secure energy supply. In the event of the adoption and entry into force of this proposal, it would be quite simply impossible to obtain the amount of oil necessary for the operation of Hungary and the Hungarian economy. Currently, oil can only come to Hungary by pipeline, and a significant part of this oil, some two thirds of it, comes from Russia by pipeline, because 65 percent of the Hungarian oil consumption comes from Russia. [[13.10]] This would therefore lead to a petrol price of 700 forints and a gas oil price of 800 forints if the Brussels package was adopted. The adoption of this Brussels package would amount to hundreds of millions of forints of expenditure for Hungary due to the need for technical conversion of refineries, which would take at least five years, and the result would be only one aspect, namely that the oil purchased after that would be more expensive than what we are currently buying. Moreover, it would be necessary to eliminate this price increase, in the hope of changing the entire Hungarian energy system, which would cost hundreds of billions of forints again. The success of this whole operation is not only up to us, as there is currently a shortage of capacity on the alternative southern transport route, and there is a shortage of capacity, which would require investment in another country, Croatia. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, This proposal is therefore a problem for Hungary, and this proposal does not contain a proposal for a solution. And, Mr President, until there is a solution [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] Hungary will not vote for this sanctions package in Brussels until then, as the price of the war should not be paid to the Hungarian people. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-05-09-2	The political groups now have a two-minute timeframe to respond. I give the floor first to György László Lukács from Jobbik. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-05-09-3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Dear House, Fellow Members! Let us conclude right from the beginning that we are all interested in the peaceful closure of the war and the real steps taken in this direction, and this is Hungary's only and common interest. Allow me, in this speech, given the fact that we were talking about refugees and war, I should like to thank all those soldiers, those law enforcement workers who guarantee the safety of our country, those who ensure order at our borders and close to the borders, and those who do this difficult work in the care of refugees by civil society organisations and public actors alike, and who are willing to make this sacrifice for all of us. Dear Minister, Listening to his speech, it gives a special reason that today, on the day of Europe, we have to debate issues that represent Hungary's energy supply and independence. I think we can all agree that, in the short term, the situation is relatively difficult to resolve. We all see that the exposure of the Hungarian energy sector to the energy sources that we are currently only able to obtain from Russia, to what extent, but it should be remembered here that the ministry you run and the government in your presence have received 12 years for what you promised to reduce energy dependence in some way over the past period. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Sixteen!]] Over the past 12 years, a substantial step in creating a healthier, more balanced energy mix in Hungary, with a significant EU resource, seems to have been unsuccessful. However, we see and understand that, in the short term, Hungarian interests dictate that we move towards a more peaceful settlement of this situation, but in such a speech, in addition to criticisms to the West, we should have told us what solution we have for how we know about geothermal energy, solar energy, wind energy and the current energy mix to make Hungary less dependent on the East. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] This should have been clarified, Minister, or that you are now a friend of Russia, or that you are interested in a position that is a real solution. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-05-09-4	I give the floor to Péter Ungár, leader of the group, on behalf of the LMP. Here you go.
u2022-05-09-5	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, We naturally agree on the importance of peace and the importance of Ukraine's territorial integrity. At the same time, in my opinion, there is something that we are not talking about, and that is that, under the pretense of war, there is a fight in the European Commission between the interests of Russian fossil energy and US fossil energy exports. A green couple can't support any of them. We do not think that it is a green proposal to spend billions of euros on transporting American shale gas across the sea to Hungary. However, the fact is that this short-term agreement shows, but here is a medium and long-term. In my opinion, there could be agreement in this House on Hungary's need for self-determination. A government that has taxed solar panels and banned wind power over the past ten years is not a friend of energy self-determination. The path of energy self-determination is not paved by Rosatom, Mr Mangold and not by Westinghouse or Rothschild, but by Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises and Hungarian energy capital. The fact is that Hungary's green party will be a partner in providing Hungarian green energy in Hungary, there will be no partner in providing Hungary to large fossil companies in the East or West. In my opinion, this can be a basis for national consensus. Thank you very much.
u2022-05-09-6	Now it's time for the leader of our country's faction. I give the floor to Congressman László Toroczkai.
u2022-05-09-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, We would like to say that we hear it a lot here in Hungary and also in Europe, how important Ukraine's territorial integrity is. For us, Hungary's territorial integrity is the most important and it would be very good to hear more often how important it is that Hungary's interests always precede all other interests. Here again, we see that, while the Hungarian Movement naturally supports every action by Hungary and the Government of Hungary that rejects the embargo, we must not only think of the embargo on oil or gas, but also of any kind that harms Hungary and harms the Hungarian people. In this connection, let me draw attention to the dual speech that we are hearing here in Parliament from the representatives of Fidesz, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, at the Versailles summit, Viktor Orbán voted in favour of the initial measures which appear to be not over. It was like an avalanche, and we don't know where this avalanche is gonna stop, because it's about oil now. The end will really be that they want to completely destroy it, not just Brussels, but obviously those behind this war; let's say that the Ukrainians are not at war with the Russians here, but the United States of America is at war with Russia, they would completely destroy Europe, including Hungary. We must therefore take action against this, but we will also take action against the double speech, and we would like to hear more about Transcarpathia, and we would like to hear that the Hungarian government stands even harder in favour of the interests of Transcarpathian Hungarians, as they are taking Hungarians from Transcarpathia to the front. This is unacceptable! Don't take any Hungarians to this war, because it's not our war or we'd like to hear it, especially when any communication with Volodimir Zelensky takes place that reminds the Hungarian government [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] also for the referendum on Transcarpathia in 1991. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-05-09-8	I give the floor to Mr. Bence Tordai, leader of the Group, on behalf of the Dialogue. Here you go.
u2022-05-09-9	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, Dear House, I am very pleased that we have finally managed to make a clear distinction between Russian aggressors and Ukrainian victims. I am very sorry that this has not really happened in recent months. What has still not been done is that, on the one hand, it is said that Vladimir Putin, Viktor Orbán's good friend, is personally responsible for this invasion, and it has not been possible to do so while you are here in Parliament at least making a clear distinction between aggressor and victim, so that your propaganda is not still broadcasting the Putin messages. We would like to see some progress in this, too. At the same time, I am glad that there are now slowly points of agreement and that they are catching up with the moral minimum, at least at the level of words. Here I would like to thank the civilians who have done most of the humanitarian work that Hungary has had to do with the war in Ukraine instead of you, and I would like to see them not decorated with foreign feathers. However, it would be good for them to take responsibility that Hungary's crisis resistance has not been established in the last 12 years. What we dialogueists have already said in 2010 is that, in order to ensure energy security and secure supply, resources need to be diversified, green energy needs to be shifted, the green energy revolution that alone can guarantee a future-friendly, sustainable and, as we can see, secure energy supply has not reached open ears in 12 years. [[13.20]] I'm glad that you finally understand what the weight of this is, what the significance is, but we can't take responsibility for the late and missed opportunities for you. Say that you have made a mistake, ask for help, and we will support Hungary's green energy revolution, which can save us in this situation. Thank you very much.
u2022-05-09-10	Ms Zita Gurmai, a representative of the MSZP, is now taking the floor. Here you go.
u2022-05-09-11	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. In no way do I find it fortunate to use the word "atomic bomb" in a war situation, because it is very brutal. In any case, I would also like to thank the volunteers here for their incredible efforts to help the Hungarian people, the refugees. It is clear that the energy system, the energy system, the energy sector could have been transformed years ago. Obviously, a careful government cannot allow a strategically important area to come from energy, food, health care only from one direction. So standing on more feet is extremely important. Therefore, I suggest that you begin to transform the energy sector. Not only are we criticizing the embargoes, but it is very important to be able to show alternatives. Of course, both of the statements made by Minister are extremely important. Hungary's security is very important, as is Europe's unity, strength and independence. Obviously, it is difficult to argue with you, Minister, which means the present state, but we have not heard a proposal for a solution on how to achieve both goals equally, so that the Hungarian people are not exposed, wherever the wind blows. As regards the sanctioning of Russian oil, the Prime Minister said that this would correspond to the nuclear bomb dropped on the Hungarian economy. However, it would not be the case, Minister, about this nuclear bomb, if the government had already implemented the energy independence plan, which the Prime Minister had already announced in 2018 and, if I remember correctly, in many forums even earlier. I think that in the short term the EU should understand the situation in Hungary, but in the medium and long term we would like to see the Hungarian government's package of proposals on how it intends to replace our energy dependence with basically green energy. Instead, what happens? We have barely finished the pipeline to neighbouring countries, but these projects have also been designed and launched much earlier. Where's the independence plan, Minister? Thank you.
u2022-05-09-12	It is now up to the leader of the KDNP Group, Member István Simicskó.
u2022-05-09-13	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Thank you very much, Minister for Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó, for your information. The KDNP faction is in favour of peace, we have always been in favour and support the Hungarian government in this endeavour. Ladies and gentlemen, The question with regard to this Commission report or resolution is whether to bring closer the peace that we all want or not. It solves the conflict, the war that the Ukrainian people are suffering, but obviously Europe is also facing serious problems. It seems to me that this decision does not help to achieve and establish peace at all. In fact, we can see directly that it is not helping Ukraine. An oil embargo, a natural gas embargo, does not help the Ukrainian people, and it is particularly harmful to Hungary and the Member States of the European Union. So European decision-makers, the bureaucrats in Brussels, whose aim, task and responsibility is to help, strengthen, protect and pave the way for their people, instead making harmful decisions; harmful, dangerous, economically, and also harmful decisions for our way of life and our conditions of life. More importantly, he will not bring Russia to its knees. So we see this decision to be a completely pointless, unbelievable economic problem, trouble for each European state, for the Member State and for the people, as well as a decline in the economy and a high level of inflation. So we continue to encourage the Hungarian Government to stand firm and consistently in Brussels and in every forum for the interests of the Hungarian people, and it is in the interests of the Hungarian people to have peace, but not at this price, not by punishing ourselves with a sanction, but with the real damages. Thank you very much and you can continue to count on our support. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-05-09-14	I now give the floor to Matthew Kocsis, head of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-05-09-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, Let me start by saying that Congressman Tordai mentioned that we can finally distinguish between Russian aggression and Ukrainian victims. I just want to remind you that in this building, in this room, on 10 March 2022, we adopted the parliamentary resolution condemning Russia's aggression against Ukraine, which you did not vote for. You're the one who didn't vote for it! So be nice, don't pick up where you left off, don't lecture us. We've been saying the same thing as the Minister has just said for months. This war should not continue, should not have started, nor can Hungary pay the price of this war. Now, let us get to the point, because the Minister's point was not primarily about the war, but about the embargo and sanctions policy in Brussels. Congresswoman Gurmai, what you are saying, including Márton Gyöngyösi, who said quite precisely that the sanctions proposed are good and effective, including Benedek Jávor, who said that it would hurt, especially those countries that are heavily dependent on Russia, and, as we have heard, we are in it, and also one of their blogs, where they said that it had to hurt us a little, well, Congresswoman, this is a nuclear bomb. This sanctions policy is a nuclear bomb for the reduction of costs, the Hungarian economy and fuel prices. There's no other word for that. That is why the path the government is on is right, which is why we support the government's policy in everything. We do not expect you to do the same, because they have made statements contrary to it even this weekend, and I think they will do so again next week, but at least do not argue that our government represents Hungarian interests through fire and water, not the interests of Brussels. And if this is gonna be a debate, well, let's get to it. Good luck, Minister. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-05-09-16	Ladies and gentlemen, Péter Ungár, head of the LMP Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech. I give you the floor, please.
u2022-05-09-17	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Perhaps it is the end of 2019 or the ongoing crisis management since the beginning of 2020 that is affecting this House. Since the Covid outbreak, and through the Ukrainian-Russian war, there has been a crisis management that is about protecting Hungarian citizens as much as possible from the negative impact of this crisis on economic life. The fact is that, in our view, however, these crises have shown, and in particular what this has meant in Hungary, that the growing inequalities and unsustainable economic structures of the thirty years after the change of regime cannot be denied. We have said before, and those with whom we have agreed on the party's development that the only profit-oriented food industry, the multi-service economic system, and where a person like me, taxes as much as a social worker, well, this economic system is not sustainable. The fact is that this is also apparent from the fact that you have not deviated from the economic neoliberal consensus and the Grand Coalition of Finance Research-Varga Mihály, that you still think that the poorest people have to pay as much as the richest ones, you still think that the corner hairdresser has to pay the same corporate tax rate as the BMW. We don't think that's gonna last much longer. The fact is that the crisis symptoms that are now entering Hungary are not, of course, only Hungarians. It would be a shame to deny that this is a crisis from the world economy. At the same time, the wages that these crises affect, the financial situation of people, are already a Hungarian feature. The fact that there is an inflation crisis and an energy price crisis, there is a food shortage and a lack of income is the case elsewhere, but not in this form. To highlight only one specific point: if we look at it, last year you gave all the wage supplements to the various civil servants during the campaign, gave them to the teachers, although it was not enough, and they gave some to the social workers, all of them were taken away by inflation. If you look at it as a buyer, a social worker could buy more from his salary last year than he can buy now. It's the same with law enforcement workers, and it's the same with cultural workers. [[13.30]] The fact is that this is also a serious problem because it shows the value choice that you want to set up the economic and political system. In spite of Viktor Orbán's announcement of the green light before the coronal virus epidemic, even though you spoke about it in a book review, the Secretary of State wrote about the fact that the "polluting pays" principle is a fundamental issue of justice, so far zero pollutants have paid you zero in the Hungarian budget. Even though they talk about a lot of things and sector-specific taxes, the fact is that because of the mass of strategic partnerships, multinational capital, especially German capital, does not participate in the Hungarian public burdens. Even though you are on the side of the people, those who care for their elderly relatives at home continue to receive HUF 68 thousand, despite the fact that my fellow Member was still at the same minimum wage in 2004. All in all, we therefore think that we need to deviate from the consensus that captured Hungary in 1990, and we need to deviate from the fact that everyone has to pay the same amount that the market solves everything. Finally, a sentence on what we are about to do for the next four years. Our credo is to prove in this House that the totality of the world is not Fidesz's statements plus Fidesz's statements minus one-fold, but there is another between the two, and there is another policy. Thank you very much.
u2022-05-09-18	On behalf of the government, I give the floor to Minister Péter Szijjártó.
u2022-05-09-19	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Chief of Staff, Ladies and gentlemen, Perhaps there is no debate between us that the world has lived in times of crisis since 2010, and that is what you have kindly referred to, not Hungarian-specific challenges, but global challenges. These crises have all hit Hungary hard. In 2010, we had to deal with the effects of the 2008-09 global financial crisis in Hungary, and then the migration crisis kicked the door at us in 2015; 400 thousand people came through the country, perhaps even remembering who took the position on this issue. Then came the health crisis, the pandemic, which our generation has never experienced. As a result, a global economic crisis has developed relatively quickly, and unfortunately, the war and its security and economic challenges are now being followed. The debate that you are talking about, which has really affected the economic policy debates of the last decade, has also intensified in Parliament in the spring of 2020. You were involved in this, and your party was involved, so obviously we remember this debate when the opposition constantly suggested that Hungary solve the economic challenges of the pandemic with aid, give as many people as possible as possible, which obviously has no economic performance in the background, which can obviously only be carried out by taking out loans, and which obviously would have pushed the country back into a debt spiral before 2010. We then took the view that unemployment should not be financed in Hungary, but the prevention of unemployment. The work-based society that has been built since 2010 is the underlying economic philosophy, and I believe that the success of it could have been proven to everyone in 2021, even to those who, for some political reason, would have challenged it earlier. 2021 It was a year when the world economy was still going down, and it was still challenging because of the economic effects of the pandemic, and Hungary, the Hungarian economy, had the most successful year since the change of regime. In 2021, all existing records were broken. In 2021, the Hungarian economy showed an unprecedented rate of growth, with an increase of over 7 percent. Never more investment has been launched in Hungary in a year than last year, HUF 1886 billion. The Hungarian economy has never exported as much as EUR 119 billion last year, this is the 34th largest achievement in the world, with 95th place in the population and never so many people working in Hungary, never as many people had jobs as at the end of last year, 4.7 million people, just one million more than in 2010. You can remember when we said in 2010 that we would create a million new jobs in 10 years, then what economic experts said, who, of course, still downgrade the objectives and performance of Hungarian economic policy. If we had not left behind the progressive tax system in 2010 and introduced a single-key tax on personal income tax and later on corporate tax, Hungary could not have survived the economic challenges of the past few years. However, since 2010 we have had one thing in common: Hungary has always come out of these crises more strongly than it has agreed, and this is due to this economic policy approach. The world is facing an inflation challenge now, and I can give you some examples from Europe: Belgium has inflation in excess of 9 per cent, the Netherlands is around 12 per cent, Estonia is around 15 per cent and Lithuania is about 16 per cent. In Hungary, inflation has been curbed and controlled. This would not have been possible without the price stops, it would not have been possible to control the price of basic foodstuffs, to control the price of petrol, to maintain the benefits of the reduction of the rent or to introduce a interest stop. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Chief of Staff, We can also say that even the purchase value of the lowest wages has more than doubled in Hungary since 2010. With all due respect, when we discuss the economy, we do so on the basis of numbers. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-05-09-20	I now give the floor to the leader of the Dialogue Group, Bence of Tordai. Here you go.
u2022-05-09-21	Thank you for the floor. Dear Citizens, Dear House, The Dialogue Group will return to the basics in the next period. If Parliament is the main representative of the people, then we will represent the people here, the voters, the nearly two million citizens who voted for Hungary in Unity, and the hundreds of thousands of voters who live in the area of individual representatives who joined the Group of Dialogue. We will also represent the millions of our fellow citizens, many of whom may not have voted, but whose interests, whose better life would be served by the vision of Dialogue: a vision of a fair and solid, sustainable and future-friendly, free and safe Hungary, a vision of a happier country where one counts and not profit. It is particularly important that the issue of the safety of life of people is strongly represented now when we are in the midst of a worsening livelihood crisis. Prices have gone wild, living costs, housing, overhead, food and services are booming. They lose their purchasing power, wages, pensions, social benefits. They can't pay off teachers, nurses, hundreds of thousands of civil servants. Government measures are weak and ineffective, they do not provide substantial help to people, there is no tax reduction, there is no wage increase for civil servants, there is no family allowance increase, there is no serious pension increase. But there is no help for mass laid-off workers either: the city led by Gergely Christmas, not by the Fidesz government, but by the dialogue co-president. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] So there is no government solution to the livelihood crisis, but instead there is a brutally increasing public debt, a pledge of our common future, and a gross Fidesz austerity package is being prepared. We are here to represent the interests of the people, which is why we are proposing to curb the increase in prices by reducing VAT and to ensure people's income security with a fair wage increase, a tax reduction at low wages, a progressive wage reduction, a pension increase, an increase in social support. Let me offer you a good practice: the Budavár municipality, led by the dialogueist Márta V. Naszályi, provided basic income for those in distress during the epidemic. After the introduction of the measure, more than 80 percent of the people, including the Fidesz voters, supported this measure. How can all of this be accomplished? It is very simple, we must increase the record low corporate tax rate for large companies. It is not fair that, while millions are short, the government respects the profits of giant companies as sacred cows. The solution is therefore a tax increase for large companies, a basic income for small people. We hope that this time the government will not serve the interests of the oligarchs and large companies, but, exceptionally, it will protect people in the livelihood crisis. This is also possible in support of the referendum questions submitted by Gergely Christmas. [[13.40]] The Hungarians' position on these two issues is absolutely clear: there are four fifths of those who believe that the record short three-month job search support should be extended and that the student city should be built instead of Fudan. Hundreds of thousands of jobseekers, tens of thousands of rural young people seeking housing in Budapest could be helped with these decisions. The ruling parties now have a simple decision: they are wasting 14 billion forints to find out what we know now, or rather to use this money to solve the problem. With the support of MSZP, Momentum, Jobbik and DK, the Dialogue presented proposals for legislation and decision making it possible to alleviate the livelihood crisis. Now it's Fidesen's turn to decide whether to stand by the people and try to alleviate the livelihood crisis, or rather to engage in petty party political battles and continue to act as opposition. We're curious to hear your answer. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition.]]
u2022-05-09-22	I give the floor to Secretary Balázs Orbán.
u2022-05-09-23	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I was very pleased to hear Mr Bence Tordai speaking, who spoke about how the Dialogue could finally find its own voice. We are very happy about this, because so far we have never been able to find a voice of our own and to run for office alone in an election. If this is indeed the case in the future, then we are watching with great interest. The other is a general remark, if you will allow it: false perception of reality in politics is not a problem for a very long time. Then the problem is that the elections come after him, where voters can express their views on reality, and when it comes to the fact that the balloon that politicians are blowing does not match the perception of citizens, then comes the political failure that you have been forced to suffer on many occasions. In such cases, the problem is never in the opinion of the voters or in their perception of reality, but in the posture through which you have developed your policy. So I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Dialogue may have a vision, but the vision of Dialogue may not be Hungary's vision. Hungary probably has a different vision. You talked about various life-support measures. Here we discussed with colleagues among ourselves that you have given the only positive example of providing basic income for residents of the Castle in Buda. I do not think that this is the most important question in Hungary for a living: whether the residents of the Buda Castle receive a basic income from the dialogue mayor. I think there are hundreds of thousands of other people in this country who need the government to help their livelihood. I would like to draw your attention to the measures that the government has taken in recent years to assist in matters of livelihoods. These measures have two things in common: on the one hand, that the government has accepted and supported them all, and, on the other hand, that the opposition opposed them, and that your parliamentary faction did not vote specifically for them. So I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, if you are serious about this change of direction, we are praising the day with a receipt, so we are waiting here on this side for the consequences, I would like to point out that there are government measures and parliamentary decisions that should be supported here in this House. Let me give you some examples. That's the raise, isn't it? Perhaps we can only agree that the issue of wage increases is very, very important. From January, the wages of social workers increased by 20 percent, the salaries of daycare workers, those working in the cultural sector, teachers, kindergarten teachers. We would like to continue these wage-raising programmes. In respect of the same university instructors, nurses, 21 percent, law enforcement workers and soldiers received 10 percent wage increases and six months' arms money. Furthermore, you did not support the family tax refund facility, which left 600 billion forints in the family. There was also a general minimum wage increase, resulting in a higher minimum wage than the average wage of your political allies. Young people under 25 years of age were exempt from tax. I think it's just the lowest fate, the most difficult situation, coming to the labour market very early... [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] No, it's not the problem of urban intellectuals, because they go to college and college. The only reason I'm making this clear is because at this point, the congressman started shaking his head. No, the tax exemption for people under 25 who are very young is either willing to work or must really help them. And as long as you don't see them from these downtown liberal institutions, clubs, and perspectives, you'll have the election results that you achieved on April 3rd. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that there is the 13th month pension, and here is the total employment as an objective, all of which we would like, these are results which I think all Hungarians can be proud of regardless of party standing. Our policy, and what we want to represent, is to protect these results in the next period, to ensure Hungary's financial margin, to provide the resources needed to protect these results, and to suggest to you that if you really want to stand on the side of the Hungarian people exceptionally, once at last, after 12 years, you should not oppose, but support these measures and we can start from here. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-05-09-24	I now give the floor to Mr László Toroczkai, the leader of the Group of Mi Hazank. Here you go.
u2022-05-09-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to say something right at the beginning, which is actually the credo of the Hungarian Movement, and this is a very simple message: Hungary belongs to the Hungarians. Here, in the most beautiful parliament in the world, in the Hungarian Parliament, which is guarded by the Holy Crown, I think that it is not enough to say this only sometimes. I think that in the parliamentary term ahead of us, we will have a lot of work to do, a lot of catching up to do and a lot of cleaning to do if we want all Hungarians in Hungary, even in the Carpathian Basin and even in the world to feel that Hungary belongs to the Hungarians. Let's start right away with the question of the Constitution. It is no coincidence that the social acceptance of Hungary's Fundamental Law is currently largely incomplete. A lot of us know that, and society feels it, and many of us in Parliament have already said it, and many parties have already said that in Hungary the legal continuity of our historic constitution has been interrupted a long time ago, sometime towards the end of World War II or after, but we can all agree that the Stalinist Constitution of 1949 has certainly not been a continuation of the historical Hungarian constitution. In 2010, when many of us hoped that there would be a change of regime after the change of government, we also thought that the issue of the historic constitution had to be resolved. However, the Fundamental Law, which entered into force on 1 January 2012, was not such a constitution, since it was accepted here in Parliament almost exclusively by the votes of Fidesz and KDNP, and, if I remember correctly, the kind of broad social consultation that we believe would have been necessary to prevent Hungary's people, the Hungarian people, from feeling that it is a party-basic law, not a constitution, and not a continuation of the historical constitution. Of course, what we have heard here in recent months is not a solution either, since the opposition on the Balliberian common list has said a number of times over the last few months how he thinks it will be resolved. Obviously, it's absurd and unacceptable that someone wants to change the Fundamental Law by 50 percent and make a constitution. May God save us from this kind of idea. I know it seems like an idealistic solution, and I may seem like an idealist myself, but we will be working here in Parliament during the parliamentary term ahead of us, so that some sort of conciliation between the parties can begin in order to try to reach a constitutional assembly that will involve civil society, and indeed, everyone in Hungary will feel that Hungary has a constitution that belongs to everyone, to all Hungarians. But for example, there is a huge problem, a matter of sovereignty, about the Hungarians' slogan. On 12 April this year, the WHO, the World Health Organization, published the amendment that came from the government of the United States, namely the administration of Joe Biden, which is an amendment that is now to be adopted at the World Health Organization General Assembly, called the General Assembly of 22-28 May, which is a matter of sovereignty, since it would give the WHO Director General, Tedros Adhanom Gebrejesus, the right to decide, for example, in the event of new pandemics, and he could at any time order a medical emergency from Ethiopia or New York even in Hungary. [[13.50]] It's life-threatening, especially when we know that science is now at a point where such an artificial epidemic can be started at any time. And here is another case in this regard, and we ask that the Hungarian government object to the WHO, which shook the Hungarian public: on 16 March, the Metropolitan Tribunal handed down a judgment on the case of György Budaházy and his associates, with a total of 117 years of detention. This caused such widespread indignation that not only we were outraged, but, for example, András Csókay is a neurosurgeon or Mary Wittner is asking for mercy for the Patriots. I would like to remind everyone that the judge was biased, did not make impartial personal remarks. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] and the prosecutor's office asked for further aggravation. We ask you to support individual pardons from the government as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-05-09-26	Once again, Mr. Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State.
u2022-05-09-27	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, In your speech, you mainly dealt with the social acceptance of Hungary's Fundamental Law and stated that it was low. I must indicate that I do not agree with this position, and I do not believe that what you have said is true, and allow me to recommend to you a number of specific basic legislative provisions, which are highly supported by society. For example, it is thanks to the Fundamental Law that we can keep migrants storming the southern borders outside and build the fence; and we can defend ourselves against Brussels in connection with attacks to break down the legal and technical border. One more thing: due to the provisions contained in the Fundamental Law of Hungary, it is due to the fact that Hungary is facing other Western European countries, although the government has the financial room for manoeuvre that is necessary for crisis management, but the budgetary balance must also remain in this situation. The Fundamental Law is therefore also crucial to maintain financial balance. In addition, if you carefully apply the provisions of the Fundamental Law of Hungary, you will see that there are provisions in it that concern the protection of families and children; on the one hand, there is a constitutional obligation to support families and, on the other hand, the Fundamental Law, in terms of combating genderideology and LGBTQ propaganda, which provides the legal framework for all of us. It is also due to the Fundamental Law that we can act in an emergency, whether it is a health crisis or a war situation. If these provisions of the Fundamental Law were not in place, then the Government of Hungary, no matter how much social support is behind it, would not be able to act. In other words, to mention only two more examples and to complete the list: the clear provision of the Fundamental Law can be derived, for example, from the protection of the national currency, the forint and, in general, the provisions related to national sovereignty. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: The 400 HUF euro!]] My problem now is that if you are going to pursue the policy of attacking the Fundamental Law, then the fact is that you are saying no to these measures is that you are attacking these measures. So I do not recommend this path to you, because it is precisely the crises of the past period that have proved that the constitutional system is working well and that it is able to defend the sovereignty of our country. I would therefore like to ask you not to attack or weaken this constitutional system with these speeches and political statements, but to strengthen it on the contrary. In view of the movement of our country, I think there is a chance that a new Jobbik will evolve, did you not say that you consider Jobbiko to be your own dead. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that Jobbik's journey is a deterrent, and I would therefore like to point out that it is worth avoiding. On the one hand, it is an extreme, unacceptable, anti-Semitic position, and, on the other hand, the rhetorical embrace of national considerations, then the internal submission to the Balliberal side, and, in fact, where Jobbik ended, the parliamentary faction is one of the radical sections of DK. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] This is the path that Jobbik has traveled, and we are pushing for the fact that our homeland fraction doesn't end up as the new Jobbik. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-05-09-28	On behalf of the MSZP, I now give the floor to Deputy Head of Group Gurmai Zita. Here you go.
u2022-05-09-29	Thank you very much. Dear House, Since our accession to NATO and the Union, it has not been as important to think about our future, Europe, as it is now when Russia attacked Ukraine. We Hungarians know what this means, we experienced it in 1848 and in 56 and experienced it in the period before the regime change. Attacked, possessed, and in war it is not good to live, life is complete when one can thrive in peace and tranquillity. The fundamental aim of European integration is to preserve peace in Europe, and we see that these are not empty words, that war is a realistic opportunity, that we have to do something about it. Our fellow citizens are about to die, who personally remember the horrors of World War II, and those who believe that today is no longer a big deal. Bucsa, Mariupol, millions of refugees tell us that, yes, war is a huge deal, we are infinitely vulnerable to it individually. Ukraine was, and we would be, if the political generation between 1990 and 2004 hadn't done everything they could for Euroatlantic integration. On this day it is fitting that we thank you strongly for your contribution to improving the security of our country. Dear House, We must feel the responsibility, the gravity of the situation, that we are celebrating Europe Day. Yeah, let's celebrate. Let us celebrate that the generation of World War II was wise enough to give another hand; to understand that if war is hell on earth, it is not a great price to give a hand to the former enemy to avoid it. You know what that means? Sometimes you have to pay, but we're better off than going with tanks to enforce their interests, or if the really big ones come with tanks to enforce their interests. We inherited peace, but we can play it. However, it is our job to follow in the footsteps of this great generation: to preserve European unity, unslaked thirst for peace, and to ensure that we leave our children a more peaceful, safer, prosperous Europe. And it's also our job to teach our children that if they don't take on the day-to-day task of fighting for peace, sooner or later they'll be facing tanks. Dear fellow Members, Today, the leaders of the European institutions received the conclusions of the conference on the future of Europe. There is and there is one thing that we agree with; there is one that we do not agree with; and there is one that we do not agree with. With our national interests in mind, let us take an active part in the next debates, as the government side, as the opposition, as representatives of the Hungarian people, in our voice, argue, negotiate hard, firmly and wisely. Let us do our best to ensure that the voices of the little ones, the oppressed, the vulnerable are heard as far away as possible. Let us remember women, children, excluded, disadvantaged minorities, especially minority and national communities. Let us reason for them, so that Europe can continue to be a place for all to live in peace, to grow and to raise children. Hungary is not a victim of the present peaceful Europe, let it not be so! The attack on Europe must end because war and peace are at stake. In 2009 a Hungarian party with high hopes. Yes, Hungary can do more! He wrote a good European programme. This was the key point of Hungarian government policy: that the external factors, including the European Union, should be blamed for any inconvenience. The constant shift of responsibility, the lies, had their effect as if time had stopped. [[14.00]] I do not know what has happened to this party with great hopes since then, but these words are still true today, these lines could have been written by the opposition today, and this is sad, because we have to admit in government and opposition that this attitude makes it difficult for Hungarians to prosper, to grow, and indeed endanger the security of Hungarians. Because Fidesz's 2009 European Parliament election programme saw well that European unity, our belongings, is the key to European and Hungarian peace. One more quote:, If Europe allows sovereign states to fall victim to undisguised imperial arbitrage in its neighbourhood, it will also endanger its own security; the European Union can only act effectively against Russia, which once again openly proclaims its expansion ambitions. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Everyone must understand the words of time, dear fellow Members, some also the message of voters. Everyone has to admit what he was wrong, what he was right about. I begin on behalf of the MSZP: the 2009 Fidesz EP programme was right in these criticisms. I am convinced that we should reach a national public agreement [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Let us no longer blame Europe unjustly in government or opposition, let us exercise our interests hard, and let us do all we can for the safe and peaceful prosperity of the Hungarian people in Europe. Thank you for listening.
u2022-05-09-30	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2022-05-09-31	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I think you could tell yourself a few times one of your last-to-last sentences that people's words need to be heard. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The large victory of the Fidesz-KDNP in the elections is due, among other things, to the fact that we heard the voice of the people who wanted peace and security in Hungary before the elections. And even after the elections, you didn't hear the people's voice, because they continued the same record after 3 April, when they continued demanding arms shipments, they continued to say and say the same sentences they said before the election, and which would bring Hungary closer to the war. You know, I didn't think there would be a war in my life here in Europe next door. We didn't realize that hundreds or even thousands of people would die in our neighborhood every day. I think that everything must be done for everyone who is a Member of any parliament, so that the destruction of war does not return to any country in the future, and where it is now, it will end as quickly as possible. If, for some reason, the Hungarian people sent us to this Parliament, then most of all they sent us here so that Hungary would never get involved in any war. In this Parliament, there have been a wide variety of debates over the last century, but there have been no more important debates, and there have been no more substantial arguments between the walls of this House than when someone argued for peace and argued for the absence of war. Unfortunately, XX. In the century, empires brought us into two wars, so we Hungarians, in particular, need to know that we should never, at any pressure, imperial, central, ally or other great pressure, let us not allow an inch, not a millimeter, to bring Hungary closer to any war. The Fidesz-KDNP government has always been on the side of peace. When the war took place with our southern neighbor, there were also attempts to involve Hungary in that war, if any, but we did not allow Hungary to be brought closer to this. Even when the first Ukrainian war was in the Crimean Peninsula, Hungary did everything to ensure that the then Fidesz-KDNP government would stay away from this war, and we do nothing else now. We will not allow weapons to be carried through Hungary to Ukraine, we will never contribute to the arrival of Hungarian soldiers, or we will never agree with the delivery of Hungarian weapons. What have we sent to Ukraine? Before last week, exactly 210 million forints worth of medical help, medicines, bandages to help people, to heal them so that the disease does not hit their head when it is difficult to bring supplies to hospitals. Now, that's something that's important to bring to Ukraine, this kind of humanitarian aid. Many, many billions of forints that we took there, and about 40 billion forints that we spent here at home to help the many people who unfortunately had to leave their country. If you look at these numbers: about 600 thousand people who have appeared at the Hungarian border; tens of thousands of people who have applied for asylum; more than 100,000 people who have received a temporary residence permit; we have received these people in kindergartens, schools and universities, and we have done everything we can to help them because they are really fleeing a war. But, honourable Member, it is never possible to justify anything, either with Brussels, or with any other capital, or with any negotiation, that someone should bring Hungary closer to a war, which is what you have done with your own statements and would have done in government. Thank God, the common sense of the Hungarian people was in place, and you can see the outcome of the election, the role they have given you. We will never agree with Ferenc Gyurcsány, the leader of the left, who said either he wrote on Facebook that you will be a lousy person or you will die for Ukraine. Which one would you choose? Or even your mayor said that we need to decide who we're with. What we have to decide is that we are with the Hungarian people, we have to hear the voices of the voters. In your name, it is also included in the Hungarian Socialist Party. In the last 90 years, your party and its predecessors have never been able to hear the word of the Hungarian people, and they have always heard the word of a foreign imperial centre, so in most cases or in many cases before 1990, only some kind of violence, pressure, and military pressure were able to bring your former legal predecessor into power. So, it should be forgotten that Bence Tordai, sitting next to you, when it was not two weeks after the election, said that it was time for Hungary to start direct arms shipments and carry out sanctions, and now they are nodding their heads, honourable Member. Let's hear the people's words! Well, more than 3 million people, 3 million 60,000 people said that there was no way that this was one of the main messages of the elections, but nothing has changed with you. And speaking of Brussels and the European Union, honourable Member, it would be a great surprise, but it would be a great pleasure for us. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] if you would go to Brussels to represent the Hungarian people, not to report Hungary. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-05-09-32	András Fekete-Győr, the leader of the Momentum. I give you the floor.
u2022-05-09-33	Dear Parliament, I say those words for the first time, and I want them to be true. Together with many, I would like to be able to honor the work here again. [[Bence Rétvári: You have to walk in!]] to really act as a parliament, both on 199; here, where Anna Kéthly or Imre Nagy spoke to the nation [[Bence Rétvári: József Antall!]] Or where István Bibo received the occupying Soviet army alone. Neither they nor the voters are respected by those who evacuate the role of Parliament [[Bence Rétvári: Or they'll pull out!]] It follows from those who have confessed in the past that, apart from parliamentary democracy, all other systems necessarily lead to the loss of the individual's freedom. We believe in parliamentary democracy, which is why we are sworn to serve Hungary. [[Bence Rétvári: Barely!]] This is a parliament with a ravaged authority, but a parliament where laws that determine our daily lives are born, we can discuss the present and future of the nation here. On the other hand, one side votes for everything and the other side rejects everything. Black, white, yes, no, there's nothing to respect, it's not a National Assembly. On one side, everything has been a failure for the past 12 years, while on the other hand, none of the successes are true. In addition to the vast majority of systemic crimes and abuses, I will not deny the results of the past period: important investments and investments, new jobs, the economy has grown; true, because of EU money, and it is also true that it has increased even more in the surrounding countries, yes, where leading politicians are being taken away because of corruption by the police. Momentum will initiate and support any proposals for Hungary's future, for the theft-free use of EU funds for hospitals, schools and workplaces, for teachers' salaries, for language education, for reducing public burdens for individuals and small businesses, or for single-parent families, but in the meantime we will always tell you what errors, omissions and crimes have occurred in the areas of health, education or national security. We're enemies. We will oppose proposals that serve the interests of the few against many; we are opposed to abusive exercise of power, raising taxes on the poorer in the service of the rich; we will not vote for theft of entire industries disguised as nationalisation or privatisation. This is not our invention, but our national liberal predecessor, our role model, Lajos Kossuth's idea of a good state. The Orbán system not only violates our political principles and tastes, but it is a contradiction to all that the heroes of 1848 and the sages of 1867 dreamed and built up as Hungary. [[14.10]] It is a historic tragedy that the Hungarian nation and the borders of Hungary do not coincide. This is why last week a Russian bomb fell on Hungarians in Transcarpathia. It is also a tragedy that 32 years after the change of regime, the Hungarian government is a voluntary hostage to Russia's dictator. [[Bence Rétvári: Romantum!]] We work for a Hungary where instead of Eastern oppression, the press, work, air of everyday life, life, where we do not have to beg for the favors of the powerful to move up, work hard enough; where wealth is not a birthright, public life is not criminalized, and no one is worth as much as he has. If I didn't believe that Hungary could be such a place, I wouldn't be here. If I hadn't thought that the Parliament could regain its due respect, I wouldn't have taken over my mandate. [[Bence Rétvári: Breathe!]] We will be the voices of those who otherwise would not get their voices to power. Let's honor them. So it will be here again, and it will be the Honourable Assembly. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Bence Rétvári: I wish it were true! Applause from the benches of Momentum.]]
u2022-05-09-34	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2022-05-09-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, You have been involved in Hungarian public life for several years, but this is the first time that voters have been authorised to participate in parliamentary work. We wish you good work and good luck in doing this, and, by the way, congratulations to all the first elected Members! I understand you would like to strengthen the role of the Hungarian Parliament, and we agree on that. But I can't help but think that a few weeks ago, you guys were thinking about boycotting seats and all kinds of conditions to come to work here at the National Assembly. So what I'm asking you to do is, if you know anything else, convince your fellow Members not to boycott the seats. If you know of a left-wing Member who may not have taken his parliamentary oath, then please convince him to put it down. [[Gergely Harvestó: He wants to, but he doesn't know! You won't let him hang up.]] And if you're gonna meet people on the left, who are gonna provoke meetings, say by trying to stop votes, I'm gonna ask you to stop them in the future. Since we have not yet had the opportunity to respond directly to their claims here in the House, so allow me to make a few requests, I could also say that we should make a few proposals. If they do, they promise, if they don't, they won't. First of all, if a Hungarian party is running for election in a neighbouring country, then don't campaign against it, so support Hungarian parties in Transylvania, not Romanian parties. Then, if the Hungarians have a common dream, say, the Olympics or anything else, they should not hope for political gain by crushing it, even if that is what they hope from abroad. Then, if a war conflict breaks out in our neighbourhood, do not make rash statements, do not want to send weapons and soldiers, especially through areas where Hungarians live. I mention this specifically because they had such proposals, the left would have sent weapons to Ukraine, but the election results clearly prove that the Hungarians do not want this. One more important thing: if you don't agree with the government, and because of that, let's say, you would protest, which is a fundamental right, so if you don't agree, don't throw smoke grenades at the police. If they do, they'll take responsibility for this and don't try to deny it all. Finally, it's a matter of independence. Now he has set a number of objectives. Several years ago, you were asked about Momentume being the new SDS. The question is legitimate, by the way. I think it was a Mandiner interview. You replied then that you would put your life on it, that you would not enter a coalition with the MSZP. Then what happened? They started with MSZP on Ferenc Gyurcsány's electoral list. That's what the Momentum called a slop coalition. Few people know that, but that expression doesn't come from us, it comes from a politician with a moment. [[Laszlo Vigh: Jesus, Mary! Defiance.]] I would ask you, in this coalition, if you have the opportunity, not to represent the failure policy before 2010, but I think that as a form of DK youth, you will not really have political autonomy. [[Gergely Harvesto: Come on, let's be careful.]] That would be, honourable Member, five requests. I don't know if they'll take it. A lot of people might be happy if they didn't wash the electric scooter in the shower next time. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] Either way, thank you for listening, and I wish you good work. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-05-09-36	It is now up to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Vice-President of the Jobbik Group. I give you the floor.
u2022-05-09-37	Mr President, Dear House, The election period may now be considered abandoned in terms of the fact that the battle of opinion bubbles has taken place, and in many cases arguments, lies and attacks, which are completely alien from reality, have been made public, but it is quite certain that the matter of living and the real problems of real people should at last be discussed in this House. I could also talk about a lot of such things, for example, why the price of bread is more than one and a half times the price of last year, compared to a certain point, that the already brutally high sublet prices in the capital of 150 to 160 thousand could again increase by 15 percent in one year without any help being provided by the members of this government, which calls itself family-friendly and is now laughing. The thing is, if we go down to real people's real problems, the price of an average line of closets is 150 thousand forints higher than it was two years ago. You often say that you believe that people bring home half a million average salaries in Hungary, say that Hungarian people live better on average; I see that Lőrinc Nacsa nods now. The fact is, my fellow Member Nacsa will not tell me, but neither will István Hollik, that you are leaving 1.7 million people out of the statistics, and then you will start talking about a half million average wage. They leave out the brutally large and well-working Hungarian people working in companies with fewer than five employees, who carry this country on their backs, who, by the way, provide two thirds of the jobs, not the most jobs in Hungary. However, what we see is that these typically low earning compatriots are left out of the statistics, some, statistical Frankenstein, or monster, which has nothing to do with reality, you stand up to the news and public TV, tell us that this is what they do to reassure themselves, it sweeps through the bubble of opinion, yet we see that, in addition to record inflation, the brutal release of the price of basic foodstuffs, the family allowance would double this, the pension minimum amount would be the same, pension increases, and the annual pension increase will essentially be eaten by inflation in the first months, and Hungarian workers would simply be forgotten from the statistics. What we see is that it is essential at the dawn of an emerging crisis period to support families, workers and children, and I think that fidesz laughter can last until the tax system, including the VAT system, is mentioned. My fellow Members, we have talked a lot about this. Explain to me that we have passed an election, and now we have a professional answer to a professional question - why is child rearing and childcare the most brutally taxed throughout Europe? Why is there the highest penalty tax on a baby food, a stroller or children's clothing in Europe? How do you imagine that a few ten thousand forints of family tax relief will benefit families, while the 27 per cent world record is released from their other pockets, but it is certain that EU record-winning VAT, the VAT on child-rearing articles, the consciously poorly held forints, which, as a separate tax, beats a thousand billion per year on Hungarian workers and family members? That is why we are proposing to you that we prevent this crisis by helping families. That's your slogan. We would like to present a proposal in your field and put it down, which, by the way, is more than ten years of a better proposal, but if you have social or Christian social sensitivity, you will consider our proposal. The essence of the concept of annuity or annuity is that if the Hungarian employee, if he pays his personal income tax, is no longer in his hands, he has already paid it, not the Hungarian State, not the Hungarian Government, but the employee is free to make no more than 10 percent of the tax paid. You can say that if I've already paid this tax, I'd like to enrich my parents, my family. It would be a beautiful symbol of solidarity across generations, and once again, in an emerging crisis. [[14.20]] And you can also see that this crisis is here, that demographic conditions are terrible, that the number of live births is quite catastrophic. Many still flirt with the idea of emigration. Similar symbolic gestures are needed in order for Hungarian young people to be willing and willing to thrive in their homeland, but also their ability. We can help them with this ability, if there is a meaningful response to our proposal. I know your political operation. I know what kind of cuts and answers we can expect, but if you have any kind of Christian-social veins and sensitivity, then you take this proposal seriously. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and have a meaningful reaction to it. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2022-05-09-38	Mr. Csaba Dömötör has the floor again.
u2022-05-09-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I agree that economic issues must be discussed, all the more so, because the war has very serious economic consequences for the entire European economy. It is therefore necessary to make decisions that provide a stronger protection for Hungarian families. That's what the interest rate stop is for, and you didn't tell me about it, the food price stop, the gas stop, the long-running reduction. I would like to confirm to you that the government has maintained these with all its might. I would add, if it were a matter of living, that if Jobbikon had passed, there would not have been, among other things, a family tax refund, a tax reduction and a 13th month pension. When they had to vote on the budget, they were not supported, and then, as usual, they came to the House and demanded measures to improve livelihoods. They attacked the pricestops, by the way. It is also strange that, while you are pressing for immediate action, your main foreign politician supports plans to weaken the country's economy. Márton Gyöngyösi clearly supports the new EU sanction package, including the oil embargo, and would also suspend the investment in Paks. You should also know that their adoption would result in drastic price increases both immediately and in the long term. We note, honourable Member, that they are adapting their policies to foreign expectations, but do not then refer to the livelihood of Hungarians. As far as wages are concerned, we can agree that they should be further increased. That's why we raised the minimum wage again this year. That is why real wages have increased by more than 70 percent under our government, compared with the 15% or a few percent in the time of left-wing governance, during the governance of the left you recently joined. Therefore, along this belief, we have made young people's wages tax-free, which is why the increase in medical and nursing wages is under way, just like many others. I'm sorry you missed all of this. And if you mention family support, I can tell you that the family support system has never been as diverse as it has been all these years, and we want to expand it further. But while we are here, let me ask you one more question: where is James Peter, besides sitting next to you, but why doesn't he speak up? ! [[Fertility and noise in the benches of opposition parties. James Peter: Open your eyes! What about your boss?!]] Why don't you speak up? [[Peter James: Fun Miki!]] Ferenc Gyurcsány had a bravery test yesterday. He says that he passed, but that means that Peter James did not pass the test of courage: he was elected leader of the group, he was re-elected as president of Jobbik, but he did not have the courage to speak here. [[Peter James: Where is your boss? Where's the manager guilty?]] The reason why we are not so surprised at this is because it should be taken into account that the last election has failed the most insane political initiative of the last decades, the essence of which is that they have absorbed a former national movement into the left. You, Peter James, have humiliated your own party in a few years; this is what happened. [[Deterioration in the benches of the ruling parties.]] During his leadership, the Jobbik fraction decreased to about a third, and since a new extremist faction was created in Jobbik's place as a result of this defiance, it was also decided that you would no longer be able to go back to where you started. You are seen politically by the new extremists as your own dead. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You wrote the panel for him!]] I am more than that because they still exist a little, and they will exist exactly as long as their new political allies do not allow me to use the word "master" for themselves. [[James Peter: You can't follow this anymore, can you hear me? It's constant noise.]] And maybe it's not far from the moment they're gonna tell you it's done, that's it, that's all, that you're not needed anymore, and if that happens, then you and you are the only ones to blame for all of this. [[Grumble in the benches of Jobbik.]] In recent years, you have brought all kinds of food, all sorts of merchandise, into the Chamber. I don't know if they're gonna do this anymore, but I do know that there aren't as many ounces of Parisian pasta as there aren't enough kilos of dry pasta, and there aren't enough leather coats to cover up the fact that they made an alliance with the man who almost brought this country to its knees. [[Peter James: How expensively...]] And here's the thing, honourable Member: according to press reports, they were trying to rape a better-looking co-worker at a meeting. [[Noise in Jobbik's benches. Peter James: This is press, you?! Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Continue to respond to parental support!]] According to the news, there could be a procedure. It is extremely strange that those who act, petition, protest in all similar cases are now silent. Dear Left Representative, Ladies and Gentlemen, Where are they now? Where's Gurmai Zita? Where is Agnes Vadai to speak? Where is the newly elected Kálmán Olga to raise her voice when someone was raped? [[Continuous noise in the benches of opposition parties.- Olga Kálmán reports. Gergely Arató: Kálmán Olga is here! The president's ringing the bell. Interview from Jobbik's benches: roll call! Viktor Orbán is not present! Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] So, it would be nice if the president of Jobbik told me about it. [[There's always a lot of noise.]] What he knows about the attempted rape of a co-worker. If he said he was so drunk that he couldn't remember the whole thing, everyone would see what kind of people wanted to run this country. Thank you for listening. [[Intruders from the pro-government benches: That's right! Peter James: You're welcome! Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-05-09-40	It is now up to KDNP's group leader, Mr István Simicskó. Here you go.
u2022-05-09-41	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Security is a very important baseline, especially when there's a war going on in our neighborhood. Ladies and gentlemen, We know that the concept of security is a complex, complex concept, and we also know that it also has political, social, military, economic, financial, cyber and human security, and today the issue of energy security has become a growing phenomenon. Energy security is an integral part of a country's security system and security policy. Therefore, it is crucial that the security of energy supply can be resolved and planned for the Hungarian people, Hungarian society and the Hungarian economy. And it doesn't matter what the cost is for Hungary. Energy is a prerequisite for today's world, and we all know it and know it. And it is becoming more and more so, because we live in societies, in economies where energy is increasingly important and the energy needs of mankind are increasing. Ladies and gentlemen, We see that this is a classic state task, because the state's security guarantee is a fundamental task of paramount importance in all areas, and we, Christian Democrats, consider it to be that, yes, the Hungarian government, the Fidesz-KDNP government, acts in this spirit when defending Hungarian interests and upholding Hungary's economic and energy security interests. Moreover, it is also likely to help refugees arriving from the war-torn territory of Ukraine and even deliver relief supplies and medicines and bandages to the territory of Ukraine. So this is the right and fair position, and we are constantly stressing that we are on the side of peace, supporting peace. Ladies and gentlemen, However, on the issue of energy, we should look at a few things, some basic things, because the decisions, proposals and ideas of the Brussels bureaucrats make the energy supply of Hungary and the European Union quite confusing, unpredictable and risky. Therefore, it may be good to establish some data and to take it into account in our decisions. The fact is that energy provides Europe with an opportunity that shows that it has over 1.7 percent of the fossil energy on Earth. Europe has the least fossil energy and is therefore dependent on regions, countries with energy sources and energy reserves. Russia has 17 million square kilometres, the largest country on Earth, the second most powerful army, superpower, nuclear power, and huge reserves of natural gas and oil. I just want to add that according to experts, it takes at least one or two million years to form hydrocarbon deposits; the history of mankind and the history of the Earth shows this. On the other hand, the territory of the 27 Member States of the European Union is 4 million and 230 thousand square kilometres, so the territory of Russia is four times, more than four times the size of the European Union as a whole with its 27 Member States. Therefore, we can take into account particularly specific and interesting decision-making situations, as Russia is being hit by sanctions and embargoes in Brussels, namely oil and gas. What is quite specific here is also about the speech by Minister for Foreign Affairs Szijjártó before the agenda on who is being punished, who will be hurt. Is this really going to hurt the Russians, or is it going to hurt us? We see that this type of extension of sanctions is causing extreme damage to the Hungarian economy and to Europe as a whole. [[14.30]] What I see, ladies and gentlemen, is that a Europe that has been spoiled and spoiled since Marshall's aid, which is slowly giving up its Christian faith, is making decisions against a country and in areas and issues that are in the field of energy security, which are definitely harmful to all of us, and also against a country where the Russian head of church, Kirill metropolitan, patriarch, is not allowed in and would impose sanctions on the head of the Russian Church and the head of the Orthodox Church. This is shocking, honourable Members, an unprecedented case, and we know the history of the Russian Church, because in 1917 the most important objective of the Communists was to abolish the Russian Church, 130,000 priests were taken to concentration camps, thirty priests and bishops were executed, so there were atheistic five-year plans to destroy the church. So we Christian Democrats are definitely protesting [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We continue to support the government's support for the Hungarians against this expulsion, against this sanction. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-05-09-42	I now give the floor to Secretary Tamás Menczer. Here you go.
u2022-05-09-43	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, Before responding to your suggestion of sanctions and oil, allow me to draw your attention to a sentence, I think, which today is unworthy of embezzlement, namely Mr Tordai, who announced that, after four-thirds defeat, the left will now begin to represent the Hungarian people. I think it's a good goal, congratulations, and I wish you all the best. The problem, however, is that this is not happening. In reality, this is not what is happening; the left still does not represent Hungarian people, Hungarian interests. As you have mentioned, the penalty and oil have already been discussed here today, there has been a debate on the speech by Minister for Foreign Affairs Szijjártó, and it has turned out that the left does not care about reality, and who does not care about reality, does not know and does not want to represent the Hungarian people. Let's look at reality. With regard to gas, 85 percent of the Hungarian annual consumption is Russian gas, 40-50 percent of the European gas consumption is Russian gas. With regard to petroleum, 65 percent of the Hungarian annual consumption comes from Russia, which means 20,000 tons of oil per day. These quantities cannot, quite simply, be replaced overnight from another source. And indeed, if it pleases Mrs Gurmai, if not the term "atomic bomb" - the Brussels sanction package that has now been put together - it means a nuclear bomb for the Hungarian economy. This is the reality, and I think that the Hungarian people have given us the authority and even the task of talking about reality. This sanction package would mean 700 HUF petrol and 800 HUF gas oil, and we need to protect Hungary and the Hungarian families. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Plus, if we also take into account the fact that it has already been decided among EU leaders not to make a decision that does not take account of the different energy resources in the countries, and yet that decision has been made in Brussels, it will only make the situation worse. And why do I say that the Hungarian left is not interested in reality? After Minister Szijjártó's speech, perhaps without exception all the group leaders said that the Hungarian government did not do everything and did not do enough to achieve so-called diversification. Yes, you can. Diversification, that is to say, to get more resources and more routes to Hungary, is a good effort, a Hungarian interest, and therefore we have done everything we have done in recent years, and we have always said so. With regard to gas, let me inform this House that we have six of our seven neighbouring countries connected to gas, so we can get gas from many directions, buy gas, and we have done our homework. No one expected and asked for the construction of the Krk LNG terminal in Croatia more than we did, and we had to wait years for it to be finished. We've got a billion cubic meters contract there. The Hungarian annual consumption is 9-10 billion cubic metres, so it comes from Croatia in a billion cubic metres, and we could buy 7 billion cubic metres from there, so we would have to increase LNG capacity and Croatian gas interconnection and the capacity to transport Croatian energy, so that's not up to us. With regard to oil, the fact is that we could buy oil on the Adriatic pipeline, but we can see capacity constraints in the Croatian section. So our Croatian friends would have to make a significant investment in order for us to be able to buy more from there. Not to mention that the Hungarian refinery technology would have to be converted over many years, at least five years, for hundreds of billions of HUF in order to receive other types of oil, and the end would also be a price increase. But here we did what we could, for example, 16 percent of Hungarian use comes from Kazakhstan, and we solve this with Kazakhstan oil. As Mr. Group Leader may have pointed out, we are on the side of peace, we are on the side of peace, we are on the side of peace, and we are there, of course, giving all humanitarian aid. Let me highlight some of these. We would build it in Kiev County if it were possible, a school and a hospital; we could transport mobile containers to Transcarpathia at any time, so that we can facilitate the accommodation of the refugees who have arrived; under the Stipendium Hungaricum program, we will give thousands of students the opportunity to continue or finish their studies in Hungary. We are able to provide wounded Ukrainian soldiers without a limit, and we also undertake to provide health care for 130 Ukrainian children; not to mention the next, about 700 thousand people who have already arrived, and the 1,400 tons of relief supplies that we have already delivered there. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We continue to represent Hungarian interests. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-05-09-44	The last of the speeches before the agenda is Mr Máté Kocsis, Head of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2022-05-09-45	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, At the beginning of the speech of the new parliamentary term before the first agenda, it is appropriate to begin by thanking all the voters for their participation in the parliamentary elections, thanking those who have exercised their voting rights, and thanking those who voted for us and who have honored us with their trust. 3 million 60,000 people have never voted for a party or party alliance in Hungary. This can be seen as an unprecedented success, but for us, these 3 million 60,000 people are not a reason for presumptuousness, they are not a reason for pride, they must mean humility, work and service. This is why we have undertaken to defend Hungarian interests every day of the year, and we stand by it. In essence, the campaign before the parliamentary elections was grouped around it, which is what it was all about: war or peace? On the other hand, I don't know what's happening, but we've been watching these processes for a long time. The fact that you would have brought Hungary into the war with irresponsible statements, the electorate gave a verdict. Of course, there is less explanation for why, after the elections, some still demanded shipments of weapons, which would essentially bring Hungary into the war. There's even less explanation for that, but it's certainly none of our business why you don't have anything to blame for and why you don't learn certain lessons. Political or political lessons are one of your things, but social lessons must be drawn for all of us. In Hungary, Hungarian voters do not ask for what you have represented. And it is simply not a party political issue, but a question of peace, security and the future of the country. 3 million 60,000 people are committed to the interests of Hungary, and you will essentially continue where you left off. It's one thing I said before that they still demand the transfer of weapons today. It is also one thing that we mentioned in relation to Minister Szijjártó's speech before the agenda that you are once again not on the Hungarian side. It is also one thing that Márton Gyöngyösi, Benedek Jávor and many still have the interests of Brussels in mind, they do not even consider it, nor do they even wonder what the Hungarian interest is. Your list we believe is why he was defeated. There is only one winner on your list, and that is Ferenc Gyurcsány. And I'm bringing this up here because we've been saying this for years, and you guys haven't accepted it in years. In essence, all previous parliamentary factions have either halved as Jobbik or the Socialist Party, or remained at most the same size. [[14.40]] There is only one political grouping that has doubled its number: this is the Democratic Coalition. [[Kálmán Olga: Thank you very much!]] In 12 years, the sentence that you have passed from Ferenc Gyurcsány to Ferenc Gyurcsány has just come to pass. This was a premonition in the previous cycle; it is now before our eyes. And don't get hurt. [[Gergely Harvesto: We will not be harmed!]] However, DK will continue to operate in such a departmental system. I believe that now attempts are being made to say something else, but their political statements, their behaviour here, have simplified the Hungarian political map back into a simple, one-list, Gyurcsányist divisional system. There is a green section of DK in the form of LMP; it also has a youth department with momentaries; there is a fascist department with Jobbik [[Defiance in the pro-government ranks.]] [[Defiance in the pro-government ranks.]] there is a nostalgia class with the socialists (Development in the pro-government ranks.) ; and an overseas department with the Dialogue Group, Congressman. [[Defiance and applause in the pro-government ranks.]] I would just like to say to you that if you no longer take responsibility, if you remain the same leader, even if you come out of another election defeat, if you are no longer able to understand this country, you have insulted those whose confidence you wanted to gain, then at least stand by the interests of Hungary and try. Don't look at when you get praise in the foreign press; try to see what the Hungarian interest is! It's not impossible, at least put an experiment on it, set a goal for the next four years. I wish you good health. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-05-09-46	Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer. Here you go.
u2022-05-09-47	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, There is indeed something to thank these 3 million 60,000 people, because there was no foreign instrument, foreign pressure, no mass electoral fraud action that would not have been used by the Hungarian left [[Gergely Harvesto: The Government!]] in many cases, his campaign is organised from abroad. Many Hungarian citizens, who have never signed anything to the left in their lives, have received texts by name to vote for the left. [[Gergely Harvesto: You cheat so much that there will be 3 million votes!]] To date, we do not know exactly what database the left is, what software, what method [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] Where exactly did you get it from? [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] these, so to speak, rather incomplete text messages. There was a threat here in Parliament that there would be a parenthesis, no trench burial, and everyone who spoke to the right will be a runaway, especially if they move in the cultural sphere, or especially if they are intellectual, they will certainly have a run on the ground, as these people have heard, the families of these people in previous historical times. And they're talking about star loss, and they're talking about putting everyone here in jail who's playing politics in the name of Fidesz-KDNP. But the Hungarian people were on the ground of common sense, and they did not ask for this threat, they did not ask for this hatred, because the left had no other message: they said that we were all here from fascists to communists, that we hate the right side together, that we hate Viktor Orbán and the local candidates together, and that is how we replace them. But this was not enough for the Hungarian people, the majority of Hungarians did not sympathise with it, but 3 million 60 thousand people voted that what the Fidesz-KDNP government has done during the past 12 years of economic crisis, during the time of the epidemic, during the times of the migration crisis, during the energy crisis and in recent months during a war crisis, should continue. And yet, to an unprecedented extent since the change of regime, in the referendum, people voted in the same direction, so that no LGBT propaganda in kindergartens and schools could move towards children. More people have voted in this direction than in any direction since the change of regime in referendums. Whoever therefore respects the results of previous referendums on our NATO membership, on our membership of the European Union, on stopping migration and rejecting quotas must also respect this result. [[Gergely Harvesto: Respect! It was invalid!]] And this obliges all Hungarian politicians for the next long period to make this decision of people, compared to which no more people have ever lined up than on 3 April, despite the fact that you have encouraged people to vote invalidly in obscene terms on the ballots, you have failed to do so. Nor have you succeeded in doing so in the referendum, honourable left-wing Members, but have taken a stand for the protection of children. From this point forward, you, ladies and gentlemen, will not be able to say that, at any time in any forum in Brussels, we have been ignoring the views of most people in Hungary since the change of regime regarding the Child Protection Act, and that if you respect the opinion of the people, you will not say that you should give up, let us say, the Child Protection Act, when it comes to the payment of the European Union's resources based on the work of the Hungarian people, which are legally due to us, not as a donation, not as a gift, but as a gift. Because the Hungarian people have decided that there is no debate here. I would ask you, all Members of Parliament, but especially those on the left, to take into account the opinion of the Hungarian people, and do not say that you, for example, would sacrifice the Child Protection Act in order for Brussels funds to arrive. And indeed, as has been said many times today, Ferenc Gyurcsány has returned, won on the losing team do not change the slogan and leads the left. Today on the left there is a faction for whom Ferenc Gyurcsány gave this opportunity. Ferenc Gyurcsány has a large faction, and he has a small faction for whom Ferenc Gyurcsány has a small fraction. From here on out, all of you can ask him for a different license. Yet, what courageous words have been said from the left in recent years! Momentum, András Fekete-Győr: We will provide an alternative to the insufferable government and the insufferable opposition. Or later he said: I don't know what Ferenc Gyurcsány is doing in politics. He didn't say it like that, but as a Christian Democrat, I wouldn't quote the original version. So I don't know what you're doing in politics, you could have really gotten out of public life. Now they are smiling side by side here in Parliament, voting side by side and supporting each other in the election campaign. There's one thing I've missed very much, ladies and gentlemen of the left. There's been an incident here in the last few days around Jobbik's house, where you've come in many times painting a black eye, often coming in with your mouth glued down, often coming in with a candle lit or petitioned, if any [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The question of rape would have been raised. Now, why did all the left-wing representatives keep quiet about this today? Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-05-09-48	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2022-05-09-49	Dear Parliament, Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: President Novák, Mi Hazank; Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Dániel Kárpát, Jobbik; Ferenc Varga, Jobbik; György Lukács, Jobbik; János Bencze, Jobbik; Zoltán Sas, Jobbik; László Varju, DK. He applied for the speech before the agenda tomorrow: Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; Tamás Mellár, Dialogue; Dóra Dúró, Mi Hazank; Imre Komjáthi, MSZP; Kristóf Tompos, Momentum; Brenner Koloman, Jobbik; Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP; János Halász, Fidesz. On the day after tomorrow, he applied for a speech after the agenda: President Novák, Mi Hazank; Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Péter Balassa, Jobbik; Péter Ovádi, Fidesz.
u2022-05-09-50	Dear House, I declare that on 4 May 2022, Member Kristóf Tompos informed me that the cause of conflict of interest against him had been terminated on 3 May 2022, so that the Parliament and the parliamentary committees could exercise their right to vote, to submit a motion and to be entitled to remuneration. I declare that the national minority advocates are XXVII of 2008 on the oath and vows of individual public officials. Law No. 1 §. (paragraph 1 (b) and paragraphs 2 to 3) of the Parliament took a valid oath on 2 May 2022. There was no doubt as to the validity of the constituencies of the spokespersons, so they can exercise their rights at today's Parliament meeting. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. [[14.50]] Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that the factions did not ask for any interpellation, immediate question or question, these will not be discussed at the meeting. Dear Parliament, It follows in line with the 11/2022 on the establishment of committees, the election of members and officials of the Parliament. decision to amend a parliamentary decision. S/36 tabled by the President You can find out more about this on the website. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the contents of the personal proposal.
u2022-05-09-51	Dear Parliament, 1. 11/2022 on the establishment of committees, election of members and officials of the Parliament Section 4 of the parliamentary decision is amended as follows: the National Assembly elects Alexov Lyubomirt, minority advocate, Kissné Köles Erika, minority advocate, Varga Simeon, minority advocate, vice-president of the committee. 2. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption.
u2022-05-09-52	I ask the Honourable Parliament that S/36. Mr Lyubomir elected as Vice-President of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary. Please vote. [[Intercoms.]] I'm sorry. The technical system is not yet ready to vote. Now, please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the House elected Alexov Lyubomir, acting unanimously, by 158 votes in favour, as Vice-President of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary. I am now asking the House that S/36. In line with the proposal No.3 he elected Erika Kissné Köles as Vice-President of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the House also elected Erika Kissné Köles, acting unanimously, with 158 votes in favour, as Vice-President of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary. I ask the Honourable Parliament that S/36. Mr Varga Szimeon elected as vice-president of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, as proposed by the Committee on Nationalities of Hungary. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House also elected Varga Simeon by 158 votes in favour and unanimously Vice-President of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of today's agenda. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. If the ladies and gentlemen of Congress have important public affairs elsewhere, please leave the Chamber quickly and quietly. [[Several Members are leaving the Chamber. Noise. It's a short break.]] I would like to ask the Members and ladies with respect that the speakers after the agenda are waiting for those who do not want to stay in here to leave the Chamber. [[Noise. It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, It is now up to the speeches after the agenda. Mr President Novak, a member of the group of Mi Hazank, has applied for a post-meeting speech. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2022-05-09-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The title of my speech is:. Programme package against political crime, and I would like to continue where, during my resignation from my mandate, I stopped six years ago, because the fight against various forms of political crime is also an essential part of the programme of the Hungarian Movement, the Virradat programme. Perhaps the greatest result of my work as former Members, which I am proud of, is that perhaps the most common and legitimized form of political crime, the job accumulation of politicians, has been brought to an end, since it was a common practice before a Member of Parliament was, let's say, a mayor or even a county assembly representative. They took a full-time salary from several places while not doing their job with integrity. I think that it will also increase the authority of the Parliament if, finally, as full-time Members of Parliament, they focus on this work, they cannot tell voters that they do not hold reception hours, they are not available, they do not reply to the letters. And although we are experiencing a little bit now that, after the votes on Monday afternoon, the long weekend will begin for the pro-government representatives, and even for the majority of the opposition, unfortunately, we, who take Parliament seriously, consider it important that we end these political privileges. Although I have put forward so many proposals for legal forms of job accumulation in politics, which were swept down here in the 2010s, this could, of course, be implemented as a fidesz proposal from 2014, which I am very pleased to do, but there is still a political privilege that needs to be brought to an end. Let's start with our proposal to abolish immunity. It is a little painful that, after the turn of Jobbik, we are now the only party to this question, that immunity, this outdated political privilege, must be abolished. Of course, we have had success so far, because, for example, Dóra Dúró's complaint has resulted in a final conviction of a Fidesz municipal representative, a politician criminal, but it would already be necessary to abolish immunity in order to render the Members of Parliament accountable. Of course, just as the word gypsy crime doesn't mean that every gypsy is a criminal, so the word "politic criminal" doesn't mean that every politician is a criminal, but there are typical ways to commit crimes that call for a specific solution. For example, the abolition of immunity, since typically a politician doesn't push a bicycle, let's say, but hides behind a much greater right of immunity by causing much more damage, and it is not even allowed to investigate for politicians with immunity. Of course, we see something leaking out, we see it when they flip each other, we see it when the enforcement mafia, let's say, exposes László Toroczkai and Dr. Zsuzsanna Fister, but in most cases it is not possible to investigate the case of a politician with immunity. That is why we would like to see the beautiful principle in the Fundamental Law, that everyone is equal before the law, be taken seriously, because at present, unfortunately, there are more equals who are entitled to the loophole of political crime, and their representatives are irresponsible. (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.) But let us move on quickly, and let me mention just a few points, perhaps first of all, from the programme points of the Solution Movement, because unfortunately they have not been represented in Parliament in this regard, unfortunately, and therefore I think we should include their excellent proposal to introduce the concept of economic public figure to make a declaration of assets for the winners of billion-dollar public procurement. With this proposal for the name of the Solution Movement, I have only one problem with not making it up, but other than that, I think it should be supported, and therefore we add it to our programming points, because we have a number of programming points. (Dr. Lajos Szűcs in the notary seat) Replaced by Dr. Winner Vinnai.) Speaking of property declarations, we would like the Members' relatives' family members' statements to be made public, as they are currently storing in the Parliament's safes the assets transferred to the names of even underage children, which are currently not being made public. And in order to reduce the political crime that Fidesz has brought to the top, it would also be necessary to investigate hidden, stolen fortunes on a regular basis. Every four years, let's say, at the beginning of the cycle, at the end of the cycle, a politician should count on his fee to cover the often fabulous wealth that we can't find any other explanation for. [[15.00]] We would also like to impose double penalties on politicians in the event of economic crimes, and even a total confiscation of assets, according to the ideas of the Vihradat programme of the Hungarian Movement, as well as with the institution of international wage imprisonment, even through the implementation of Siberian wage imprisonment, which could also reduce political crime. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-05-09-54	Thank you very much, Congressman President Novak. Lóránt László Keresztes, representative of the LMP, also applied for a post-meeting speech with the title of our city, Pécs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-05-09-55	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In this parliamentary term, my first speech begins by thanking the voters with respect for their participation in the 3 April elections, regardless of who voted for which party, the government side or some opposition party, opposition candidates. I think that we cannot forget on any day of a parliamentary term that we are all here, following the decision of the Hungarian people, as a result of their decision and with their authority, and that we must all serve their interests with all our might. I would therefore like to thank you once again for your participation in the election. I also think it is important to say that I wish you every success and strength and health in the work of all the elected Members in the next parliamentary term, and I also expect all my fellow Members, opposition and pro-government colleagues, to do their work for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. On 3 April, the Hungarian people made a clear decision, designated government and opposition functions and tasks, and the parliamentary faction of the LMP, the Green Party of Hungary will do its work in opposition role, but with the usual constructivity in previous parliamentary cycles. In my post-meeting speeches, in the last term, I spoke almost exclusively about the problems of my narrower country, Pécs and Baranya, Pécs and Baranya. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to do this a little more generally in the first speeches. I would also like to speak a little more generally because I have been honoured by the invitation or appointment that the Parliament has entrusted me with the chairmanship of the Committee for Sustainable Development at the inaugural session. I can say that this is an extremely responsible and honored assignment, and I would like to fully comply with it. In the context that I am now talking about the castle, it is a thousandfold connected to the most important task of the Committee on Sustainable Development. We have all heard a joyful news here in recent weeks: three Hungarian cities, Pécs, Miskolc and Budapest have been given a great opportunity, because they can apply directly from central Brussels for projects on sustainability and the fight against climate change. This is a huge opportunity, and I really hope that all three cities will live with it. Perhaps we all know that the most serious challenges of our time are linked to the effects of climate change, environmental destruction, and that our most important tasks in the coming years, in the next decade, are to take action to mitigate these impacts. The Prime Minister has been making very sincere statements lately when he talks about very hard, harsh years and a very tough, dangerous decade. Indeed, the impact of climate change and the various global problems, the conflicts in this context, are knocking on our door, and action cannot really be delayed here. On the one hand, I would like to point out that there are great opportunities for some cities to act with direct EU development resources, but this work will not be worth anything if, overall, the central government does not provide the basic resources that are essential for maintaining the most important public services and for cities to combat the effects of climate change. Therefore, I would like to draw the attention of the pro-government representatives and members of the government to the fact that it is time to finally take action to address these extremely serious challenges, and it is time to finally eliminate certain system problems that governments have not been able to deal with in recent decades, regardless of government cycles. We can promise, on behalf of the Group of the LMP Green Party, that we will make professionally prepared proposals to you, but at the same time it is your responsibility to support them and finally to answer questions that are among the most important in Hungarian people's everyday lives. I am thinking of the most important public service here, to ensure the supply of drinking water, in this context, to protect water bases and to maintain public transport. There have been huge cuts in both areas in recent years. But we also all know that during these struggles the Hungarian cities are on the front line of the struggle, which is why it is a very serious government responsibility to give the government the necessary support for the operation of the cities, so let the Fidesz-KDNP finally break up with the policy of austerity and give all the necessary support to the municipalities, the cities, and consider the Hungarian municipalities and the Hungarian mayors as partners. To this I wish once again good strength and health for all, and I offer the constructive opposition cooperation of the LMP, the Green Party of Hungary in the next parliamentary term. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2022-05-09-56	Thank you very much, Congressman László Keresztes. Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik also applied for a post-the-meet speech:, How long? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-05-09-57	Mr President, Dear House, After 15 hours, we are a few minutes away, perhaps most of those who will be watching this speech through the World Wide Web are still spending their working time. Here, in front of a relatively empty Chamber, we have to talk about the huge problems in Hungary, namely in the Fidesz House, because it talks about protecting families, but if we look at how much national emotional the Fidesz behaves, as a protective force for families, then we can see that in the trial of reality, Fidesz is seriously bleeding out. We respect the fact that left-wing parties are basically approaching the world's affairs from the point of view of the individual's interest. We are not like this, I am not like this, as a right-wing man I always approach the most important basic unit of society, from the interest of the family, and I am interested in the fact that anyone who wants to thrive in his homeland wants to have children, wants to build, grow in Hungary, can do this or not. And what we're seeing is that family pockets are pumping out a lot more money from the ruling parties' actions than other measures leave in it. We have never debated one or two of the family support measures, which have actually produced some effect with geometric precision, but we also see that Hungary has been lagged by Fidesz-KDNP in such tragic demographic conditions, which is unprecedented in written Hungarian history. For a very long time, Covidra, the restrictions caused by the various viral situations, has been held by the government that even the terribly few children have been born, but now it may not be able to hide. We see that if we look at the first three months of this year and play with the idea that children will be born in a similar number throughout the year as in the first quarter of the year, at the end of the year there will be less than 78 600 Hungarian children in this country. This is a historic low that is literally threatening to wipe out the country, and if these demographic conditions continue, we will be living in a country of 6 million by the end of the century. But no illusions, no countries remaining empty in Europe in the long run. The fact is that our fundamental and vital interest is that the Hungarian people who want to thrive in their homeland will receive all the support they can to do so, and do not be discouraged by, say, an eviction from taking on the next desired child; do not be discouraged by the continuous vesature of executives from expanding their families if necessary. And what is always understandable in Fidesz's policy is that when we presented proposals for this to the House, it did not support it properly. This was also the case when I suggested that executive bans should not apply to minimum wagers and small pensioners below a certain level of income, because literally maintaining these people's livelihoods would be threatened by the fact that they would not be deducted for years on cheese paper, hand-filled paper, or even balance, which could not be clarified by the companies concerned. But this line also includes the concept of parental allowance. In this spirit, we suggested that all Hungarian employees, taxpayers, and so those workers who have paid their personal income tax should be able to provide for 10 percent of this paid tax, not to support the state, not the government, but to reach their own parents or their surviving parents. So with a simple transfer, we would like all Hungarians to have a direct provision for 10 percent of their paid taxes, this should take place towards parents, so that we can achieve a beautiful symbol of solidarity between generations. [[15.10]] Yes, all this is a suggestion from a right-wing party, which is a family-protecting step, which has clearly found agreement among demographers, and which not only strengthens this solidarity between generations, but perhaps also helps to put its culture into place much deeper than it has been in Europe lately. We've calculated that this doesn't break the budget. We therefore expect the government to take a stand in all respects, including the real support of families in his worldview, the support of our elderly compatriots who are left in a difficult situation, or much more important for him to realise tax revenues and to spend it on questionable purposes in many cases. There is therefore a gap between the rhetorical, verbally performed family protection of Fidesz and the Hungarian reality of the real proposals dealing with it. We would like all Hungarians to be able to thrive in their homeland and to receive all kinds of support for this. Unfortunately, we are very, very far away from this, but we believe that with this symbolic proposal, we can get closer to the goal that we want by a slaying step and in substance. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-05-09-58	Thank you very much, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Ferenc Varga, representative of Jobbik, applied for a post-meeting speech:, How to proceed with the catch-up programmes? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-05-09-59	Najis la vorba! Avilas-tar e vrama, ke varikon ande Parlament vorbij romanes. Som phutyardo, ke andej pecipija anglunovar me vorbijas romanes ande Parlament. Mr. Speaker, Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, in 2022, it was time for someone to speak in Parliament, openly, in the language of the largest minority in Hungary, the gypsy. I am very happy to be myself, and I am also pleased to be able to do this from the EPP Jobbik faction. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] At the hearing of these sentences, the other three representatives of Roma origins sitting between the benches of Parliament, including Attila Stojka, who, sitting in the benches of another two-thirds mandate, represents the Hungarian Roma issue with the key to catching up. Ladies and gentlemen, CHAPTER XXI In Hungary, many of our countrymen still live without electricity, water and infrastructure. We have huge shortages in education and health, and we finally have to say to someone that EU funds have been stolen over the past period, and these money is gone. But let me give you an example: for example, there was Flórian Farkas and the Bridge into the world of work. Speaking of which, where's Flórian Farkas? Please answer that. Although it is not that we, the Roma, miss it so much, because we do not want it in the middle of our backs, but I think that in his case the accountability has been lost. Then we have the National Roma Municipality's listing or non-listing scandal. To understand the process, in November 2021 the National Roma Municipality elected the current President of the ORÖ as the head of the national minority list. Next, the Lungo Drom, which is closely linked to the governing parties and to Flórian Farkas, attacked this list setting in the court, which dropped their claim, and then the Constitutional Court withdrew the National Roma Municipality's decision to draw up a list, so it happened that Hungary's largest minority was not represented in Parliament at the level of spokespersons. The end of one word is a hundred, the Hungarian Roma public life and, in my opinion, the Roma policy that never existed is in ruins. The Fidesz-KDNP government with a further two-thirds mandate has the key to finally catching up with these people and starting a real catch-up. In the last 12 years, there has been one thing missing other than honor and honor, and that was political will. I ask Attila Stojka to force this political will out of his fellow governments and finally to achieve positive results in the area of catching up. I can promise one thing to my fellow government Members over the next four years: I will be their conscience in the matter of Roma. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-05-09-60	Thank you very much, Congressman Ferenc Varga. László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, also applied for a post-meeting speech entitled "May 6, 1754." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-05-09-61	Mr President, Rightfully, this date is May 6, 1745, it means a word, a Latin word, a redemption, and a redemption means redemption. The president-in-Office is certainly familiar with this word, or may be familiar with it, because everyone who lives in the Nagykunság, Kiskunság or Jászság is of great importance to his history, which means the self-saving of the Yaskun districts, i.e. in 1745, they bought their former privileges lost after the Turkish war in 1702 for money. History includes the fact that XIII-XIV. In the 18th century, Kunos and Jász settled in Hungary received significant privileges from the ruler, they did not belong to the services of the Land of the Land of the Land of the Jászkuns, there was no relationship in the Land of the Jászkuns, and its territory was characterized by the fact that it was a crown estate even during the Turkish occupation, the owner of the ruler, who exercised his rights through the current Rádor. The residents were not only exempt from landlord's taxes, but, like the nobles, they were entitled to customs, 30th exemption and privilege. The rights were, of course, accompanied by serious obligations, and this was the military service: during the war the Yaskuns were obliged to go to war under the royal crown, they secured the salary of the reverend, who was their chief judge. After the Turkish occupation, the Viennese Court was in serious financial turmoil, had financial problems, needed money, so Emperor Lipót I decided to sell the Jászkunság, including the Jászség, the Grand Kunság, the Kiskunság. In 1702 the tragic decision was made in which the ruler sold the territory of the Jászkunság to the German Order of Knights for HUF 500,000. The sale was unlawful under existing laws, since privileged areas could not be alienated. A decade-long movement has emerged in the district in order to regain its rights, and it has been a collection for several years. It was the result of decades of work that we managed to collect from loans and collection the sum of 575 thousand and nearly 576 thousand forints, which, according to the funds of the time, was comparable to that of Hungary's budget. Thus, on 6 May 1745, the signing of Mary Theresa's degree in redemption was for all of us an important day that restored the eternal privilege of free jasians and kunas, i.e. free choice of officials, pastors, pallos rights, freedom from revs, customs and landlord services. In 2014, the National Assembly, at the initiative of the Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok county MPs, declared 6 May a National Jászkun Memorial Day, when we commemorate the self-repair of the Jászkun Triune District, Jászség, Kiskunség and Nagykunség. The anniversary gives us an opportunity to show our respect for the ancestors, to strengthen our current union, and to give us another opportunity to commemorate. But it also gives us the opportunity to review and review the message that the relief has for today. This shows the attachment, the desire for freedom that led a country and a part of the country, and which must lead the Hungarians now. Not only in Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County, as its name says, the greater part of this area, not only in Jászság and Nagykunság, but also in the territory of the country, can show that, in spite of being financially related to someone, they sell the territories of the king or of the person living in the castle, they give them their rights, but the people still have their power in their own hands. Quoting classics: power belongs to the people; this is what the Jasks, the Grand Kuns, and the little Kuns fought for independence centuries ago. One of the main issues may, of course, be that there is a possibility or any way in which there is some form of autonomy in this legislation. We have seen many modern initiatives within countries that have given some areas, some groups of people, special privileges, whether cultural or economic autonomy. [[15.20]] We have also considered that thinking about the recapture of its own autonomous or own decision-making rights in certain areas within or across the county can begin. I believe that in modern Hungary, in a European Hungary, there can be a discussion about the extra licenses and autonomous possibilities of the Jászság, the Nagykunság, the Kiskunság, and how they can move in this direction in the future. I am pleased to express my gratitude for today's opportunity to speak on this occasion. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and DK.]]
u2022-05-09-62	Thank you very much, Congressman László György Lukács. János Bencze, representative of Jobbik, applied for a post-municipal speech: - Will the potholes defeat 2/3? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman Bencze.
u2022-05-09-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, As a fresh Member of Parliament, I was pleased to hear János Áder's speech live here, among the noble walls of Parliament, and to hear the list of all the beautiful and good things that have happened in Hungary in the last cycle, how much we can be proud of: a castle program, countless sights across borders and borders. I asked my fellow factions that I didn't feel my heart pounding more strongly in my swollen chest, or they didn't feel it. And believe me, as a family man with three children, I know how good it is to have a family program like this, to get in the car, to go, to show the children the pride, the beautiful buildings of the country, but that's only possible if we have the infrastructure to do it if we were born in a lucky part of the country with the right road network, for example, in one of those lucky settlements. Those who know and roam the countryside know exactly that there are villages in Hungary, from which only one road leads and the same leads. They're called sack villages. For people living in these sack villages, a way of connecting will mean the world itself and life. In the last 12 years, we've had a minimal amount of these built in our neighborhood, you could say nothing. The past 12 years have also proved that we can build a road, even if it is well above the market price, but it is worth dealing with, and this is what the events of the last few days, the highway concession issued for 35 years, show us. And the time has come for state resources to finally not avoid the countryside, but to find the Hungarian countryside. There are settlements in my constituency where the happiness of the inhabitants is literally a few hundred meters away. I remember a time when it was tighter in duckling castles, but it was more accessible on roads. The memories of this period fade, and as these memories fade, the potholes multiply on these roads. These roads now only contain traces of asphalt, so it's almost impossible to travel on them, and there are many images of the potholes in front of people when they're on these roads. And where do these people go? Taking care of their day-to-day stuff, school, kindergarten, doctor, and somehow nothing happens. I'll say the name of the village, it's Speeded. The people in Speed are waiting for the government to intervene and help them with their lifelong journey. Before any of my fellow Members add here the problem of ownership of the road, I would like to point out that this problem was solved by the government itself, this Gordian knot was cut by the government, and let us consider the fate of the Fertő lake piles. So a problem of ownership in Hungary today should not be a problem against the right will. Why is the solution not so effective and fast for the people of Bürged? I'm going to ask you this a little falsely, but the problem isn't new. The situation has been going on for more than 12 years, and the road has been deteriorating despite the attempts of the local people, and they have tried everything, written letters to the appropriate official bodies, the parliamentary representative of the region, and even within civil disobedience, they have kept a completely legal halfway road closure, but nothing was enough. What we see is that these few hundred meters of ruined asphalt strip survived all the previous two thirds, proudly multiplying the potions on its body. Will this section of the road, these a few square meters of bitumen, be able to catch up with the majority of the governors? It can no longer be said that the road is not built because of the opposition. Don't ever say that again. I stand before you, standing up to your feet in opposition, and I stand in favour of this road being built as soon as possible, as soon as possible to settle its fate, and allow the people of Bürged to reach Tamási, the district centre in a dignified and cultural way. Here I would like to ask my fellow Member, János Süli, that, like the Paks side of the region, where several kilometers of roads have been built, these hundreds of meters of roads should be built and help us, help the people in the area, help the people in Bürged, and if I can, I will support them in all of this. What I can promise by the end is that as a new Member, I have come to the walls of Parliament to bring the word of the country, the people of the country who live on the ends, but carry the country on their backs. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[Applause from Jobbik and DK.]]
u2022-05-09-64	Thank you very much, Mr János Bencze. Zoltán Sas, representative of Jobbik, applied for a post-meeting speech. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-05-09-65	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, The international security situation has deteriorated alarmingly over the last decade. This process is extremely dangerous for our country as well. A global pandemic hasn't even ended, and who knows what turns it can take. The international economic recession is growing to an alarming extent, and what is most dangerous and frightening is a war going on in Hungary's neighbourhood. Given all the processes, it is not an exaggeration to say that we are facing very difficult years. In light of these facts, the significant improvement of our country's defence capabilities must be a primary goal. If we want to live in a peaceful and safe country, where the future of our children, and thus the survival of the nation, is guaranteed, then we must help the bodies responsible for ensuring security. The working and living conditions of those who work there must be improved so that they can perform their tasks more effectively. It's in everyone's best interest. We must strive to create a national unity in matters of national strategy and national security, because this is in Hungary's interest. I do not dispute that all politicians obviously have their own party interests, the interests arising from our common political and economic federal system, supported by a referendum, are of particular importance, and the interests of NATO, our also strengthened military alliance, are equally important. However, we, the representatives of the Hungarian Parliament, are always the most important representatives of Hungary's interests. That's what we swore to do. Thus, as a right-wing, conservative person, it is extremely important for us that Hungary should not be exposed to any external power or foreign interests. I am aware that the majority of the governing parties in Parliament are sufficient to bear the potential, the responsibility and the burden of governance. I also believe that democratic human societies are based on dialogue and consensus. Dear fellow Members, Now, when setting government strategic goals, start with particular emphasis on security, strengthening, transforming and making national security, internal security and defence bodies more effective! In the course of the necessary financial and technical developments, a first priority should be the need for the profession, keeping Hungary's interests in mind in addition to modernity and efficiency. In procurement, transparency must be maintained so that we can keep the shadow of suspicion of abuse away from this extremely important area of expertise. At the same time, do not forget the man, the people, who, often under difficult circumstances and who are burdened with resignations, fulfill their obligations under oath to the country, who often work for unfairly low wages. If we expect them to protect the country to protect European values, then they should receive European wages. Dear fellow Members, If we cannot unite on national strategic issues and we cannot show this outward, we will not only look weak but also weak. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause from Jobbik and DK.]]
u2022-05-09-66	Thank you very much, Congressman Zoltán Sas. After the agenda, MEP László Varju, representative of DK, asked for a speech:. What is going on in Újpesten? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman Varju. [[15.30]]
u2022-05-09-67	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to preserve my good habit of telling you about what's happening in Újpesten, what's happening in my constituency, Újpesten and Angyalföld. But let's get started, because I can represent their interests by nearly 30,000 voters and the interests of families, citizens who have done a lot of things in the interests of the country, and I hope that by increasing their security, the development and growth of the district, we will be able to contribute to Hungary's development in the future. To this end, another important step was taken by the district last week, the loco center was handed over on the seventh floor of the SZTK, where otherwise physical therapy, electrotherapy, musculoskeletal therapy awaits the patients, and here the area itself is beautifully painted, developed, and thus very useful, cultured, clean environment awaits the patients. However, the work does not stop here. We have further opportunities on both the third and the first floor, where all this starts and continues, the modernisation works will not stop in this way. Of course, it is primarily the next stop of the program, which gives us the opportunity to do so, and in this way we can also exit the building, because the development of the mental health and care centre in Summer Street is also being launched, which is also added to the renewal of the entire IT system of the SZTK. But after all this, I can't leave without saying what happened in Tungsram's situation and environment, because we have to pay very, very much attention to the care of the people who work here. We need to find solutions for people who lose their jobs. It has certainly been reported to many that a mass demise is taking place, which is what the long-standing company has decided to do, because 400 people are affected by the national involvement of 1600 and Újpest by the end of October this year. Of course, with regard to workers, families, they must be cared for in some way, and their lives should be helped. For this reason, in the absence of a government measure, we have also initiated various discussions with my fellow Member Balázs Barkóczi. I would like to highlight one of these, in which we have been going through the meeting with the representation of the capital and with the leadership of the company and with the participation of the trade unions, and as a result, Deputy Mayor Kiss Ambrus has offered more than 1,500 jobs that will give us the opportunity to find a solution. We know that there is not always an optimal solution that can affect some people, but we can rely on the opportunity to work in this way. The BKV can receive more than 200 drivers, which can be combined with the employment of other public utility companies in the capital, so that they can also help re-training. However, on the part of the government, when I turned to Minister Palkovic, there was no reply like this. I have in my hand the letter in which I ask you a very simple question: what does the government intend to do for Tungsram? So far, no response has been received, or it has come to be a question that has come to the previous Parliament and that I should re-submit it, because they are not willing to deal with it until then. Dear House, Dear Parliament, I think this is unacceptable, but I have taken advantage of this opportunity, and yes, I have resubmitted this question, and I am waiting for the Government to be able to deal with Tungsram as its strategic partner in such a way that it takes account of the interests of the company and pays great attention to the 1600 employees who are forced to be dismissed, because it is in such a situation and, now, this decision has been made by the company itself. I think that, in order for the situation to change, as a Member, I will do everything in my power to ensure that workers can receive decent care, and I therefore expect the Hungarian Government to pay attention to its strategic partner and to do everything in its best for the people. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of DK and Momentum.]]
u2022-05-09-68	Thank you very much, Congressman László Varju. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. Have a good day, everyone.
