u2022-06-13-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 10th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear House, I am fulfilling my sad duty to announce that László Horváth died in the 99th year of our former colleague's life. László Horváth obtained his mandate in the 8th constituency of the county of Bács-Kiskun in the first free parliamentary elections after the change of regime, and he was the party's parliamentary representative for a term. Until 1992 he was in the parliamentary group of the Independent Small Farmers' Party and until 1994 in the United Small Farmers' Party. Under his mandate, he was Vice-President of the National Security Committee and member of the Municipal, Administrative, Homeland Security and Police Committee. In 1998 Kiskunhalason was elected representative of the local government. In addition to his political and public activities, he worked as a veterinarian for nearly 60 years, he was elected several times as the national president of the Animal Protection Association. His professional work and public participation were recognised in 2010 by Sándor Tolnay. I would ask you to honor the memory of our fellow Member with a silent standing. [[The people in this room stand up and pay tribute to the memory of the deceased.]] Thank you very much. [[The people present will take their seats.]] Dear Parliament, We will continue our work with speeches before the agenda. Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, applied for a pre-meeting address with the title "Actual Affairs." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-06-13-1	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The government has re-submitted the budget and has repeatedly submitted a budget which, as it has done so far, is inaccessible and infinitely unfair. It is opaque, because there is no citizen in this country, I think, outside the government, who can tell us exactly how much the government will spend next year under the budget law. But what's even worse is that it's extremely unfair, because although the government is communicating that it doesn't make people pay for the crisis that it caused in part, what we see is that they are talking here, I think the numbers here are people who are going to pay the price for this crisis. In 2023, according to the budget law, income tax, personal income tax and taxes will be around HUF 4000 billion in revenue for the budget, VAT will be charged at HUF 7100 billion in revenue, excise tax will be charged at HUF 1460 billion by the government, all of which will be partly paid by citizens on the basis of their consumption and partly on the basis of their post-work taxes. On the other hand, we see that only 792 of corporate tax paid by companies, but let us be generous: the government is collecting HUF 800 billion, which means that while private people are paying HUF 12-13 thousand into the budget, companies and here we are talking primarily about large companies contribute HUF 800 billion to our common affairs. Here I would just like to mention that MOL had a HUF 1000 billion profit before tax last year, and all Hungarian companies pay HUF 792 billion compared to this. And then we wonder why it doesn't come to such important and high-profile goals as raising wages for civil servants. You can clearly see it, and I think that this is the biggest injustice in this budget, that the government is idly and helplessly watching its own workers' wages devalue. The last wage increase was long gone by inflation this year, and let us be honest, even after the wage increase, the experience was that the wages of civil servants were the lowest in the national comparison. It is simply astonishing to see that the state does not value its own employees, so we say that it cannot wait any longer, that the wages of civil servants and civil servants must follow inflation, because if this continues, there will be no one who can carry out the task in quality. And don't think, fellow Members, that I am speaking in the air, because there is a resource in the budget. Yeah, we should touch the tax laws. Today we see that the profit tax of 9 percent is a real manna or a gift to companies working in Hungary, and in contrast, if we raised the corporate tax rate to 25 percent in comparison with multinational companies, there would be a source to raise public employees' wages to an acceptable level. It is not acceptable that the Hungarian government represents the interests of the various large companies in the first place and above all. This is not what we swore, fellow Members, and we continue to demand that the interests of Hungarian citizens appear in the budget instead of companies. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-13-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, Deputy Minister, wishes to respond. Deputy Minister, you have the floor. [[13.10]]
u2022-06-13-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Then let's start with your claims. You said first that this budget was opaque. This is said every year by the opposition about the government's budget, which is part of a political speech. Let's see what's real. The reality is that one of Europe's most transparent budgets is Hungarian. Among other things, by submitting it to the Parliament in spring, so that everyone has time to prepare to learn about the budget that will enter into force on 1 January, this is what this will do. But the legislation also ensures transparency, since the State Audit Office is examining the budget submitted and the Fiscal Council is also examining it. The Fiscal Council has a unique right in the world because it has veto rights if it does not agree with a proposal for a budget law. As far as the hidden numbers and transparency are concerned, a budget has already been shown to contain untrue figures, and that was in 2006, honourable Member. Under left-wing governance, EU bodies have also found that the budget contains false figures. As regards injustice, this is also a unique and oppositional, left-wing opinion, because what can be unfair about a budget's main objective is to protect the country; to give this country peace and security; to give the Hungarian families security against various problems and problems; to ensure farmers that their factories, the plants, have a place to work. And how? In the last three cycles, we have seen that the Hungarian government has continued its policy of tax reduction, and today not only has it significantly reduced corporate tax, personal income tax, but also labour wages, income taxes and contributions. And that's what we need to protect. It must be protected that economic growth will continue to be above 4 per cent in the future, thereby generating tax revenues to finance budget expenditure, including expenditure for the public sector. But it is very important that you protect the benefits of the reduction of the rent. This is often done by waving hands and sarcasm. However, if we listen to the Hungarian people, they can and can see in their accounts that in Europe they pay the lowest cost of rent and rent; and there can be no other purpose for this government than the need to protect the wages from war inflation in this difficult situation, and to protect the Hungarian families from the fees that are already typical throughout Europe. It is also necessary to protect pensioners, as pensioners are also burdened with inflation, so for example, the Hungarian government will increase pensions by 3.9 percent in July, and will do so retroactively. So, in the course of the year, the government is taking measures to protect pensioners. And the budget for 2023 also includes the 13th month pension you have taken from the left. Overall, the Hungarian budget, 2023, provides protection for the Hungarian people. It's transparent and fair. It is fair, because it is about Hungarian people, it is about Hungarian businesses, it is about the country, so that Hungarian people can feel as little of this situation as possible. This is the objective of budget 2023. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-13-4	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, Imre Jámbor Jámbor, Member of the Dialogue Group, asked for a pre-meeting address on current affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-06-13-5	Thank you for the floor. My fellow members of the Government! You submitted the budget for next year last week, but you didn't give him a good title; that leaves us with this task. Let's call it the Orbán package, the budget for the Orbán austerity. Of course, we agree with you that, in the current economic situation, large companies must put more into the common. The only thing I can say for myself is pay the rich. Therefore, I agree with all the special taxes that have taxed large companies in the state of tax havens over the last decade, but I still miss a lot. In this budget, for example, you would collect 9,000 billion from VAT on consumption generated by inflation, for example, 4,000 billion on personal income tax, about 3000 billion on capital taxation, and if you look at how much of this applies to large companies, that is just 2,000 billion on labour taxation. That ratio is quite amazing. Instead of consumption, we should tax the wealth, instead of the work, the capital. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, let casinos pay taxes, large real estate managers profiting from housing crises, tax companies that build railroads at four times the price, tax the enforcement companies that earn billions, tax Garancsi, Mészáros, Tiborcz! In a simple way, let the rich pay! Give us our money back! Tax those who can cope with the crisis and the difficulties of the Orbán package. 13 000 billion tax revenues for taxing consumption and work and 3000 billion for capital? The tax revenue to be collected from consumption and work will increase by 3,000 billion, while only 1000 billion from capital, and the majority of this growth will also be hit by small and medium-sized enterprises; while your patrons are essentially taxing nothing. It's the Orbán package. Then whose side are you on? Then who are you going to make him pay? The German-Hungarian Chamber of Industry's report published on 31 May responds to this: German companies are very fond of having low corporate taxes, salaries and poor labour law in Hungary. They don't like corruption and the lack of skilled workers. The latter situation has improved slightly, but not through the education system, not through adult education, but by the influx of foreign labour. Is that really the kind of country you imagine? And the problem with this is not only that people do have to pay the price for the crisis and your bad economic policy. The problem is not only that in this budget it does not seem to do anything with the situation of education, health care, social or law enforcement workers or with these areas. You are still pursuing the decades of economic policy, which is all about selling Hungarian workers to the central countries, putting ourselves on an infusion of another country or region, and we hope. And if we drop the IV, we're gonna try to put enough money in big companies' pockets to get us back on the IV. For example, you give large Korean battery manufacturers an average of HUF 16 million to create a new job. [[13.20]] For almost three years in advance, they pay the workers' wages to these companies. In this way Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises could also be successful. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, It can be said that the current crisis, inflation, is because of the war, and that is partly justified. There is nothing more revealing than Viktor Orbán saying that there is war inflation, and that if the war is over, inflation will go away. Do you really think everyone's stupid? ! Four months ago, before the war, was there a 7 percent inflation rate because of the war? Can't we just go from crisis to crisis without a plan? You brought the economy back under Covid by pouring money into big companies and further weakening workers' rights, state regulators. Then, late for the elections, when it was not consumption but inflation that was strengthened, they returned a lot of money, and now, when it is necessary to pay for the non-economic distribution and the cost of another crisis, the money given in February will be collected double, even triple, from the low-income. In the midst of the climate crisis, in the crisis of capitalism, when the interrelated crises come to pass, you cannot answer the question of what to do with the Hungarian economy to make it crisis-resistant. The problem of this Orbán package is not only that people are being paid for instead of capital, that they do not expect a single forint from their own oligarchs, but also that there is the possibility of the next packages in this package, the possibility of the next crisis-non-treatment. Because it is not enough to be fiscally in order, the Hungarian economy must be changed to a crisis-resistant patriot model, which is much less vulnerable to capital than it is now, which sees Hungary as not just a assembly shed. By strengthening research and development, selected XXI. By strengthening the sectors of the century, by strengthening Hungarian companies based on these free initiative and not based on my brother's system, we can create a new economic foundation; a country where man is not a resource, but a value, where work is not the goal, but a livelihood, health, knowledge, the future.
u2022-06-13-6	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2022-06-13-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We can say that you and Kata Tüttő are on the other side of the horse. Here, a very nice neomarxist text is suppressed to take the most harsh neoliberal steps when there is any opportunity for you to have or have a say in government. You have just said here, a week or two before your own interim elections, a campaign text that may be liked by many, but one thing rebutted what you said, honourable Member: life is nothing else. So, in their own debate on the left, they can reflect on them very well, but the facts are somehow not on the thank-you side. The ideas you formulated on the left were 7 percent negative in the Hungarian economy during a crisis. Seven percent drop! When a crisis was dealt with in 2008 under neoliberal legislation by emphasising these principles, it resulted in a 7 percent economic downturn. What you have criticized now is the economic attitude that has brought about 7.1 percent economic growth in the previous year, which is the biggest increase since the change of regime. And you have criticised the principles in this speech that have led to Hungary's greatest economic growth and argued in favour of those which have brought about an economic fall, honourable Member. Your fellow politicians have been doing nothing here for weeks, in some respects for years, but they have been criticizing the reduction of the rent for ten years, and they have been criticizing the extra profit tax for weeks. László Varju says that we should not take anything away from these companies, we disagree. But your former Prime Minister candidate, who they were campaigning for a few months ago, says there's no such thing as extra profit, nothing to take away. All they do is protect banks, for example, who benefit from this critical period. The Hungarian National Bank will pay 650 billion to commercial banks, and you say that there is no need for an extra profit tax in the crisis for these companies. And here in Parliament, they defend the interests of banks in times of crisis. [[Noise on the opposition side.]] 'Cause they say you don't have to charge extra-profit taxes, and they say there's no such thing as extra-profit. While we can see how prices are rising, and we can also see that for some people this extra profit is actually coming down, who give fuel more expensively, who have low deposit rates and high interest rates, and the difference between the two is very nice. And all you in Parliament say is why you do not support and speak against this type of tax, honourable Member. I ask the Hungarian left to stop attacking the extra-profit donors. If you consult with your colleagues in Brussels, you may already see that in other countries, from Germany to countless countries, it is true that they are thinking about a few weeks or months late, but similar ones. Of course, if your Western European allies are going to switch to this other line, you may be making a switch too. You were talking about taxing the capital, not the work. Mr. Congressman, why did you have a 32 percent tax on your work? Now you have 15. [[Noise on the opposition side.]] You can say nice words here. It's like someone in sociology is writing their first year's paper at the beginning of his studies and writing such beautiful words. But these aren't nice words. They've taxed the job by 32 percent! Now we tax the job 15%, and if someone raises a child, it goes down to zero percent. And you're saying that work should be taxed less when you've raised it. Their electoral programs also included increasing and higher personal income tax. They said it would benefit the rich, because those who have an average salary seem to be rich with you, honourable Member. While it was precisely you who were constantly raising the VAT. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: We also had credit!]] He was also referring to VAT revenue. In 2003-2004 you abolished the zero-percent tax rate, the Hungarian left. In 2006 the Hungarian left raised the 15% VAT rate to 20 percent. In 2003-04 the Hungarian left raised the discount rate from 12 to 15 percent, and in 2009 it was the Hungarian left which raised the VAT rate from 20 to 25 percent. How do you talk about it now, honourable Member? [[Noise on the opposition side.]] To lower personal income tax for people and lower VAT when you have not had a higher personal income tax raiser in Hungary for 30 years, and you have not had more VAT uplifters in Hungary in the last 30 years. And after that, you're gonna get up, you're gonna hit the overhead cuts, you're gonna hit the extra-profit taxes, and you're gonna try to make a statement for the good of the people. While I quote from the left-wing dictionary about the reduction of the rent, I quote that it is stupidity, deception, magic, folk debauchery, people debauchery, alms, unsustainable, to be thrown into the trash, self-deprecated, populism, starving, irresponsible, loss-making service providers, no need, no need. Honourable Member, it would be better to speak in the interests of the people rather than against the interests of the people. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-13-8	Thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, vice-president of the National Assembly, representative of Mi Hazank, has applied for a pre-meeting speech. It's an address. You have the floor.
u2022-06-13-9	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I live almost exclusively on empty pasta, rice, because I can't afford to save anything else. I used to pick up a toilet paper from a teacher's toilet because I didn't have the money to buy it at home. My only boot looks like a homeless guy, but I don't have any money again. Once upon a time, I went to an exhibition opening just so I could have a nice meal there with scones. This is the life of a high school teacher in Hungary today. He earns a net of HUF 160,000, costs him 120 thousand forints on the rent, and in winter he can heat to 19 degrees the 17-square-square-meter apartment he lives in. No wonder there is a shortage of teachers in Hungary, but what will come in the coming years will be the real black soup, because nearly half of the Hungarian teachers are over 50 years old. Their pay is only 58-66 percent compared to the average of graduates, and the situation is even worse for beginners, only 50-55 percent. And what does the Hungarian government do about it? He's even cutting off their right to strike. You can do this, you have two thirds of them, you can try to silence them, but it doesn't stop the problem, it even increases the one who covers the problem, gets worse. According to the Hungarian Movement, the average salary of the graduates should be raised to the level of the teachers' salaries over the last 30 years, otherwise they have never reached this level, and their value should be guaranteed, which you have promised by binding on the minimum wage. Then, when it was actually due to be paid, a law amendment was used to abolish this commitment. [[13.30]] I know that in the answer, the Secretary of State will tell me that in the budget for next year, you will spend more money on education, but this is going to run out of overhead. And I'm asking you very, very nicely to spare me, and I'm especially concerned that you're talking about the education policy of socialist governments, and that's none of my business. The Secretary of State will be covering something else by not giving money to Brussels. But I'm asking you, you think it's right that Brussels decides how much money a Hungarian teacher takes home. Do you think it is okay for Brussels bureaucrats to decide how Hungarian teachers live? For you, the pálinka was so important, the opposition to LGBTQ was so important that a fight for freedom was launched against Brussels. Why aren't our teachers worth that much? Why aren't they planning on providing public funding to teachers to raise wages? It's pretty amazing. Viktor Orbán himself said that we should not let them decide on the future of our children in Brussels. Then why do you allow Brussels to decide on the wages of our teachers, the future of Hungarian education? It's about the people who teach us in school, of course, when World War II was or what two times two was. However, Hungarian teachers are important not only because of this, but mostly because they give examples to our children every day. They give an example of how to turn to each other with love, understanding, patience, how to help a child to get to know the world. It's their job, it's their everyday life. For us parents, it doesn't matter what state they stand in every day in front of our children. They're the ones we trust with our children. I expect the Hungarian Government not to leave them to Brussels bureaucrats, to act, to solve their salary increases. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-06-13-10	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári responds. You have the floor, Mr. Deputy Minister.
u2022-06-13-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I cannot really interpret the criticism of the lack of dialogue, the lack of negotiations. After all, last week the Secretary of State Maruzsa negotiated with the PS and PDSZ, who today received the head of the National Teacher Faculty, Minister Pintér. So every week, the government negotiates with different educational leaders, trade union leaders or public body leaders, because we also want Hungarian education to be of the highest quality, the better performance of children leaving school. We want to focus on this, and in the coming years we want to make it more visible how students' performance changes, how their performance increases, because it is the greatest success for teachers. Obviously, we would like this to be seen in the progress of teachers, and it would be felt that the more successful their students are, the more successful a teacher feels, and the more he feels every month that successful students are out of his hands. So we also believe that it is important that we move forward on this week by week, and in this, I think, in the last few weeks, we have done what we have done, and the other party has been completely open to dialogue. Obviously, there have been others on a more professional basis, on a more political basis, but we've known this from the last few months. But they came, we negotiated and we agreed, and we will continue to do so. The second issue is the issue of EU funds, as well as a philosophical basis. We say that it is an EU source, but it is also Hungarian money, and it is also based on the work of Hungarian people. This is not a money coming from abroad, but the same money, which can be used by law, in the interests of the Hungarian people, on the basis of our joint decisions. Therefore, it is unacceptable that, if Brussels does not like the political adjustment of the government, it is pretending that this is not the Hungarians' money, it is his money, so he is trying to control it and not the Hungarian government. We have made it clear that we will devote a very significant part of these resources to raising the wages of teachers. The left-wing politicians who are in Brussels are also aware of this and are constantly blocking Hungary's access to its own resources. It's like they're not gonna let us put our credit cards in the ATM, because you're gonna use a red-white-green credit card to take out this source, but you can only take it out with rainbows, and you can't put it in until you change your credit card. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: The Hungarian government should pay from the Hungarian budget!]] This is what they support, and part of it we would use precisely for the recognition of teachers. What did he say I wasn't addressing you, but the left in that direction in the campaign? Teachers don't need to say pre-election government trinkets. On the other hand, they're talking about the need for a raise. Now, how András Fekete-Győr rated Hungarian teachers, I would miss it. Also Dobrev Klára: stop barren debates and act. This is how he called on the Commission not to pay Hungary's resources to Hungary. When Klára Dobrev and all left-wing MEPs in Brussels speak against the payment of Hungary's support, when Anna Donáth says that in the next EU budget cycle Momentum would link the payment of EU grants to the implementation of LGBT rights, it is important that everyone knows that this means that the money that we decided here in Hungary is the common money of the Hungarian people and we want to use it for a teacher's wage increase, this is the cover for a teacher's wage increase in the following year and the following year, they are speaking against receiving it. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: The Hungarian budget must be financed!]] This money is coming in two steps, because it is actually coming into the Hungarian government's account first, from there it goes to the teachers' account, but in essence it would go to the teachers. They oppose in Brussels that Hungary can make a wage increase from its own resources, based on its own decision, to its own teachers, because it does not like the color of the government, and because LGBT rights are more important to them than to give Hungarian teachers access to this resource. I call on all left-wing representatives, who are important for Hungarian teachers to raise their wages, to say that Hungary will receive its own resources! because it will arrive at teachers and do not oppose this, do not use their mandate in Brussels to prevent Hungarian people and Hungarian teachers from getting access to this resource. [[First of Novak: Now let's hear the answer!]] You know there was a 50 percent teacher's wage increase. The first wage increase this government started was a teacher's wage increase. You know that during the crisis and during the coronal virus crisis, there was twice a 10 percent wage increase, along with a bonus increase for school principals, which could have been a 30-50 percent increase in their wages. On January 1st this year there was a raise, next year there will be and there will be a raise. If the performance of the economy allows it, there will be more than that, because we can also provide a surplus for teachers in the case of teachers' wages. But, of course, this would require more responsible politicalisation on the left, not demanding sanctions, not proposing new ones and new ones in Brussels, but allowing Hungary to be as difficult as possible. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] bear this period, and the increase in Hungarian GDP should be as high as possible, so that teachers can have more of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-13-12	I thank the Deputy Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Vajda, Member of the MSZP Group, asked for a pre-meeting address on the current issues. You have the floor.
u2022-06-13-13	[[Without sound:]] Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Last week, the Minister of Finance submitted a bill on Hungary's central budget for 2023 to Parliament...
u2022-06-13-14	Congressman, your microphone isn't working. I don't know, his card's in. We're gonna count you in, and you're gonna get a standing mic.
u2022-06-13-15	[[For portable microphones:]] But can I start over? [[Intercoms: Yes!]] Good. So you're gonna restore my time? Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Last week, the Minister of Finance submitted a bill to Parliament on Hungary's central budget for 2023. Just as the budget is extremely important for a family because it shows what they think is important, what they want to spend their income on, so the country's budget shows what the government considers important, what it wants to spend taxpayers' money for, and what it doesn't think much of. Let us first look at a number of data showing an otherwise incomprehensible optimism on which the budget was based, Mr. Minister of Finance. For example, in 2023 inflation is expected to be 5.2 percent, while in recent days we have approached the 11 percent average decline in money. Is there anyone here who believes that inflation will be halved? They are also seriously counting on the EU's resources, which are not yet in sight, because the EU still sees the threat of corruption as strong. The Orbán government gambles here in the cycle with HUF 16,000 billion due to our country. In the first place, it is pointless to draw up a budget until the fate of such a lot is known, or if they do, a version that is the pessimistic version, i.e. because the government refuses to deal with corruption, we do not get European taxpayers' money. Based on the overall picture, it turned out, in black and white, that it was an infinite austerity that you have shown us. They are expecting significant tax increases, which, there is absolutely no way that they will affect us directly, since ideas called special taxes clearly cost life. By the way, we can already see the first signs of this, since Ryanair has announced that they are indeed charging passengers with the Orbán package's special tax if necessary, they will also charge our credit cards afterwards. A company that doesn't announce it, well, it'll do the same thing, only in silence. [[13.40]] So let's see what's important to the government in the budget. Well, after a record level VAT revenue of HUF 5400 billion in 2021, an additional increase is planned in 2023, with HUF 7000 billion expected. This amount is more than half higher than before the epidemic in 2019. Should we be happy? Well, I think it's moderate. Because the world record of 27 percent VAT is a terrible burden for everyone, and this also creates an unforgiving amount of money to further fatten NER companies, because what is important to the government is to preserve the real extra profit of NER companies, because they remain untouched by the controlled sectors, such as construction, in which the real extra profit is created, and in which they continue to gain amazing profits. And what is it that Fidesz doesn't care about? Well, what hasn't been, let's say, in the last 12 years either: well-being spending, the social sphere, health care, education, because the support of areas is also decreasing in proportion to GDP compared to this year, which is yet another graphic example of the infinite austerity they are planning. You're the ones who point back to 2010, so I'll do it. In 2010, the budget spent 31 percent of GDP on these areas and welfare expenditures. By 2023, this ratio will fall below 24 percent. But it's not important for Orbán, Varga, Fidesz, employees of the public sector, that's what they're planning to do in public administration. But let's not forget, at the same time, the pay ceiling for political top leaders would be abolished, and everyone would be able to take home as much as the Prime Minister sees fit and not what it's worth. It is clear that the budget is extremely uncertain, so much so that even the members of the Budget Council, which is difficult to accuse of Fidesz, consider the Ministry of Finance's assumptions to be too optimistic. Dear Parliament, We are well aware of what this will lead to, and in addition to pensions, this budget will soon become inflame and will no longer have anything to do with reality next year. I therefore ask you, even if you will adopt an anti-national budget, at least wait until autumn, as other countries that follow traditional European values, because there is a great deal of uncertainty at the moment, but there is only one thing in this budget that is certain, an infinite austerity. Thank you very much for the floor. I see I've got a few more seconds, so let me just ask the responder to avoid such boring, meaningless propaganda and the names of people used as scoldwords, you know, Soros, Gyurcsány and Bokros, don't say such things to me, okay? [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition. The president's ringing the bell.]] And if you're gonna talk about the European Union, I'm gonna ask you to call him by his name. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And don't bash.
u2022-06-13-16	Not now, Congressman.
u2022-06-13-17	Thank you very much for the floor, and I hope you will be able to answer without being personal. [[Applause in the ranks of DK, Momentum and MSZP.]]
u2022-06-13-18	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Deputy Minister András Tállai responds. You have the floor, Mr. Deputy Minister.
u2022-06-13-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I haven't seen you here in Parliament for the last 24 years. [[Szabolcs Szabó intervenes.]] Anyway, thank you for your advice. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] What a member of the government and a secretary of state should say. Well, look, let's start with something else. (Development in the ranks of the governing parties. ) Is it true that you have a problem with accounting for EU funds? [[Zoltán Vajda intervenes.]] I'm just asking, because according to a newspaper article, yes. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] It is true that your company used EU funds for an English course [[Zoltán Vajda: Absolutely!]] [[Zoltán Vajda intervenes.]] I'm just asking, because according to a newspaper article, yes. (Development in the ranks of the governing parties. ) It is true that your company used EU funds for an English course (Zoltán Vajda: Absolute!) And in the meantime, you spoke English well, but you still had to take this course in your own company? (Zoltán Vajda intervenes.) I'm just asking. [[Bence Rétvári: How embarrassing! That's embarrassing. Eszter Battalion: Ugly things!]] [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] It is true that your company used EU funds for an English course (Zoltán Vajda: Absolute!) And in the meantime, you spoke English well, but you still had to take this course in your own company? (Zoltán Vajda intervenes.) I'm just asking a question (Bence of Rétvári: How embarrassing! That's embarrassing. Eszter Vitalos: Ugly things!) 'Cause he told me not to say that boring answer. Or is it true that he tried to be a local government representative with letters of recommendation that were otherwise found to have been signed by false persons? Just so I don't give you the usual answer. I'm just asking you (Development in the ranks of the ruling parties. I'm asking you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] As for the criticism of the budget, he started with inflation; well, I'll help you. The inflation rate, which is planned to be 5.2 in the 2023 budget, is 4.1 percent for Hungary for the same year, the IMF calculates 6.4 percent, the MNB figures 4.2 percent, the CIB Bank 4.5 percent and the Hungarian Savings Bank calculates 4.8 percent for the same year. How much inflation is now and how much is next year, well... It does not mean that it is now higher that inflation should be higher next year; it is necessary to start down, especially if the war which you support is being declared. that, if NATO decides, they will support the war with a soldier, and we said that we will not support it, we will not participate, even if they are carrying weapons in Hungary. And look how right the Hungarian government has been in this regard! But let's get back to your criticism of budget 2023. He said on what basis the Hungarian government plans to use EU funds. We know that you would be very, very happy if Hungary did not receive the EU funds for Hungary. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: That's not true! Eszter Debate: Yes, you can.]] 'Cause you'd be happy to, well, that was the whole point. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: That's not true!]] It is realistic that we plan to do this in the 2023 budget, because if, for any political reason, the European Union is holding back, it is only political revenge against the country because the Orbán government and Fidesz-KDNP dared to win another two-thirds election. [[Eszter Vitalos: That's right!]] For Hungary, EU funds are not donations, it is a country's right, and it is natural that we are doing everything we can to obtain these funds, and that is why it is included in the budget of 2023. Then you call the introduction of an extra profit tax a restriction. Well, I read on her Facebook page that she even brought Lajos Bokros here as a comparison to the Bokros Lajos. [[Zoltán Vajda intervenes.]] [[Zoltán Vajda intervenes.]] [[Zoltán Vajda intervenes.]] This is also a bigger austerity package. Then I'll tell you that in the days of Lajos Bokros, the restrictions were for the people, for the families (Zoltán Vajda intervenes.) , raising taxes on labour, adding family allowances to income, childcare premiums, abolition of one-off family allowances, introduction of tuition fees, and a list of them. (Zoltán Vajda intervenes.) Your crisis management, that's austerity. It's our crisis management, it's our insurance. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] that Hungarian families should be protected from the reduction of the rent, pensioners from war inflation, and the economy from the increase in raw material prices and energy prices due to the war. This is the most important goal for the economy to work, for jobs to remain, and for people to have revenue. With regard to expenditure, welfare expenditure, the reduction in health expenditure, you are not right about this, but there will be time to prepare for the budgetary debate. I suggest you read the budget, and you'll see that you'll have a completely different type of speech. Thank you very much. [[Zoltán Vajda intervenes. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-13-20	I thank the Deputy Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Ms Anna Russian, Member of the Momentum Group, spoke with a title on our current affairs. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2022-06-13-21	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I lived and graduated from Berlin between 2011 and 13 in economics. I studied there because during my early years at Corvinus University I was surrounded by a medium where it was natural that if we had the opportunity to see the world, our knowledge and experience are worth increasing abroad. In 2013, I came home because I knew and felt that I wanted to live here, I wanted to work for Hungary, I have work here, this is my country, this is my community. The other day I was in Balatonaliga, where Lőrinc Mészáros and István Tiborcz were destroying one of the most beautiful beaches of Lake Balaton. I know this story about NewBuda, and I know this story from many corners of the country, where concrete wins over and over again by nature and greed over our future. A few hundred metres from the lake, at the railway station in Alga, a monument commemorates Széchenyi, the dreamer of the southern railway, and I quote: "The man who spends his life on millions will not die, though his day passes. You have four times been given the opportunity to create a similar heritage, not for yourself and your family, but for the Hungarian nation, compared to what you are doing, that millions are spent at the expense of the public, on their own rich lives. [[13.50]] Széchenyi also said that the power of a nation lies in the multitude of educated heads. Well, I have no doubt that in 150 years' time, no one will link your work to this quote, because there is not a single indicator in education that would make you proud of your work. When I came home from Berlin, I lost a close loved one as a result of a disease. I've seen the conditions under which decent, decent people who work their lives are trying to heal. I have seen how unworthy the way we treat people who are vulnerable to disease is for the whole country. Ten years later: last week the budget bill of 2023 came out, from which only one thing is crystal clear: everything goes on as before. There will be no substantial wage increases for teachers and nurses, no fair tax policy, no fair public burdens. Special taxes or, as you call it after Marx, extra-profit tax will be imposed to shift the responsibility of Hungarian people to bear the consequences of the crisis, inflation and the expensive euro in the next period. Speaking of euro, this budget also clearly shows that you are going against the clear will of almost 70 percent of the Hungarian people, because they are not working on the introduction of the euro as soon as possible. The other is their real crime in communities, their destruction in souls, which has driven hundreds of thousands of talented young and old people out of their borders, who have never been told that they are needed at home; who have never been told to come home to Hungary. Some people stayed home, but they can't fit into your system either, because all of its elements are built so that people who think differently, people who feel differently, don't feel at home. Although their policies do not seem to change anything, one important thing has changed recently in Hungarian politics. Ten members of the new Parliamentary Group of the Momentum are now working for a country where knowledge is valuable, performance is valuable; where we help the fallen; where every child has a chance to live a happy and full life; and where we invest in our future, not live it; where in a bloody war it is not a question of standing up to the aggressor, and where we do everything to be independent of him; and where politics is based not on hatred but on building communities. I stand here today and say my first parliamentary speech, because on 3 April, the majority of the NewBudans voted for me in the parliamentary elections. With this privileged mandate, I will believe that for the next four years I will stand up bravely and loudly against everything that goes against the values of the community of Me and the Momentum, and that I will work with endurance and devotion for a NewBuda and a Hungary where everyone can finally feel at home. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-13-22	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Balázs Fürjes wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2022-06-13-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, I congratulate the congresswoman on starting and finishing her economics training. This is not the case for everyone in your group; you have the habit of starting studies. [[Constant interruptions from the lines of MSZP and Momentum.]] And speaking of Hungarian families, very few Hungarian families can afford to spend millions of forints, millions of forints for the little boy, and then wait for him to finish his study; millions of tuitions in the elite university in England, and then he lies about his degree in economics. I congratulate you for not saying that. [[Deficiencies and continuous interruptions from DK and Momentum.]] Newbuda. He said that some stories about Newbuda were familiar. I very much hope, Congresswoman, that you will act as an elected Member so that the Kelenföld Service and Trade Centre will not cease in NewBuda. It's a real estate speculation that started when you were a deputy mayor, and you and the DK mayor wanted to sell the Kelenföld Service and Trade Center, and you announced a tender, and you decided to sell it. Local civilians have prevented it for now, because the decision has not been withdrawn, which would obviously mean that there would be more expensive rents, as a result of speculation, everything would be expensive, and in the middle of a housing estate, the shops could buy everything more expensive. [[Continuous interventions from DK and Momentum, including Gergely Arató: Everything is not only expensive in Kelenföld.]] So, please, if you represent NewBuda in Parliament, I ask you to say no to this privatization, to act, and to say clearly that you will not sell the trading center, and that you will hear the voice of local civilians. As far as construction matters are concerned, I can tell you that in Hungary the legislation applies to everyone in the same way. [[Demercation and interruptions from opposition ranks.]] and as we have already rejected or revoked building permits right around Lake Balaton, if they have violated the law, we will do so after all. [[Crying out and cursing in opposition lines.]] And I really ask that on the left, if you continue to attack the extra-profit tax, at least take a look around, that your left-wing party partners in Germany, for example, have submitted the Social Democratic Party last week and have supported the Linke extra-profit tax bill in the German Parliament. You guys always adjust. They tend to adapt to Brussels, to adapt to Berlin; if your comrades say so now in Berlin, they will at least accept it from them if they do not do so from us. Now that Brussels has taken the Hungarian position on the oil embargo [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] At least endorse it in hindsight if it has not been possible to draft the proposal. With regard to the extra-profit tax, it is perhaps important to say that there are situations in economic history, unfortunately we are also aware of such situations in Hungary's recent past, when the economy, the budget, is in a difficult situation and additional resources need to be provided. There are two big differences between us and you. When it happened at your time, it was your fault. [[Continued intervention from opposition lines.]] You caused the trouble, and then you made people pay the price. I would ask the Members of this House to make no mistake, as you have asked for the list of Gyurcsány. [[Uproar and applause, interrogations from the ranks of DK, Momentum and MSZP. A statement from the Fidesz: You can clap, but you can.]] Ferenc Gyurcsány's representative likes this. The fact is that none other than the party president of the Momentum has said that I don't know what the hell Ferenc Gyurcsány is still doing in politics, he could really get out of public life. These are your words. You, Congresswoman, have said this about Ferenc Gyurcsány's party and the MSZP: it is clearly not possible to discuss political cooperation. We founded this organization, I mean, the Momentum, because none of the political parties currently available were acceptable to us, and we don't want to join any of them. In comparison to this, Gyurcsány's return to Parliament has never succeeded in doing so by his own rights. In any case, I wish you every success in protecting the interests of the New Buda people. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. A rare applause in the ranks of DK and Momentum. Intercoms, including Dr. Agnes Vadai: Bravo!]]
u2022-06-13-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mr Brenner Koloman, Jobbik Group, asked for a speech on our current affairs. You have the floor.
u2022-06-13-25	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, On Saturday, the Ministry of Education on Szalay Street, oh, pardon, you haven't had one since 2010 [[Deficit in opposition lines]] Before the Ministry of State for Education, there was a demonstration, whose corps unfortunately portrayed the Hungarian educator society in a sad way: 10 percent were under the age of 30, and more than half of these protesting colleagues were over 50 years old. This is the chorus of the Hungarian pedagogical society, and that is why not only there is a terrible shortage of teachers, which you always say is a sensual disappointment, but in the next four or five years the backbone of the Hungarian pedagogical society will retire, and this would require immediate and urgent steps. [[14.00]] Let me say, instead of saying again what I have always said between the walls of this House about the last 12 years of the education system, I would like to come up with an alternative programme, especially as we have heard from Secretary of State Rétvári, that the President of the National Pedagogist Faculty has already been very good with Mr Pintér. Then I would like to draw Minister's attention to the following points. [[Bence Rétvári: Now, I'm listening.]] On the one hand, the National Pedagogical Faculty's wage demand is to be executed in a speedy manner. In our opinion, an immediate and 50% wage increase is needed for the Hungarian pedagogical society. Moreover, if we are now seeing the situation of education in a slightly comprehensive system, which is a strategic sector of national political importance, according to Jobbik, the right centre national party of our country, it is also important because our education system should provide the skills and knowledge of the 21st century. He'd give me the qualifications of the century. With the accelerated speed of technical and IT development, Hungarian youth should keep pace. If you keep up, it is unfortunately not due to the Hungarian education system. Education is essential, and in an economic and social crisis, we recommend that, not only 6 things that will not be achieved in the next year's budget to support education from gross national product, but 8 percent of it should be included as a priority crisis management in the Hungarian education system, because this is the real civil and conservative crisis management. It would be very important for us to review regionally what types of schools exist and what kind of teachers teach in these types of schools, because in our opinion it is very important to stop and reverse the process that a significant proportion of Hungarian children and young people, especially in disadvantaged regions and smaller settlements, have been excluded from quality education. I stress: quality education. Instead of a science teacher, an unqualified colleague goes into a class and preserves children, it's not quality education, it's my dear fidesz representatives! So it would be very important to look at school types and teachers in a comprehensive way, from a small regional point of view. It would be very important to fully renew vocational education and training, and it would be very important to fully review the system of non-school adult education, as there are hundreds of thousands of people in our country who have been excluded from education because of early early school leaving, and from a social policy point of view their further education is the 21st century. It is a flagship national policy goal in the first century. It would be very important to launch immediately a comprehensive review of the National Basic Training Plan, in which, on the one hand, we believe, it would be very important to include local, regional content, so NAT would not be central, but, say, 60:40 percent of central educational content could be set. And it is important that a Szegedian knows why he's going to Szeged, and a Sopronian has a duty to know who those poncichter citizens are like me. So it would be very important to modernise the National Basics so that we do not argue, and unfortunately, in this debate left-wing and liberal opinion-makers are involved, that Wass Albert or Harry Potter, both of them, I think, only when a quarter of the 15-year-olds are functional illiterate, this is completely unnecessary. [[Bence Rétvári: Liberals have already banned both of them!]] In summary, therefore, [[Bence Rétvári: Rowling has also been banned by liberals!]] I ask the Fidesz education government to enter the education system immediately along the lines of the proposals outlined, since we are after twenty-four hours. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2022-06-13-26	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Deputy Minister.
u2022-06-13-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I don't make jokes like that, that you should now call him the deputy leader of the faction, like what you did in the context of the petition transfer, but I try to answer to the things that I think you actually know the answer to. Our goal with the new national basic curriculum was to really create a modern, but patriotic basic curriculum, and, in the second year, from 1st, 5th, 9th grade, to create modern textbooks for this purpose. [[A statement from the opposition: A textbook!]] Each of these modern textbooks, if you've opened them, I assume you've been looking at them, you've taken them into your hands, and you're obviously using a QR code to connect to the content of the smart portal. So it's totally an offline book that's part of the available online content. At almost every lesson, we sought to have questions that would immediately encourage discussion, to have a modern, common-thinking basic curriculum, and to have such textbooks. These are the questions that liberals attack right away, of course, because they say that students should be moved to think, but when there is such a question that drives them to think, they immediately shout for censorship that they should be taken out of education immediately, as the Liberals now put J.K. Rowling on the index, not just Wass Albert. Sooner or later, they'll get everyone out of this. We also strive to make sure that it is not the quantity that was in it. It was a clear expectation for parents, students and teachers to reduce this, so the number of concepts in high school decreased by 15.3 percent, the names of the different people to learn by 17.5 percent, and in chronology by 22 percent less high school content, 11 percent in topography. Averaged in high school, this represents a 16,5 percent reduction in concept and lexical matter, with 18 percent reduction in primary school, in place of which these tasks, questions, discussions that try to adapt the daily lives of students to the expectations of today, the 45 minutes they spend in school. In fact, we've given schools an extra 10 percent difference, precisely so that each school can better develop its own profile. It's customary to say, especially from the liberal side, because it's in them, and they always say they're always putting on the same record to eat here-- box thinking, Procrustian bed and all, but no, Hungarian education doesn't work that way anymore, they just don't want to see it. Obviously, they don't want to see it because they want to attack the government with what they did 30 years ago, but apparently they didn't make much progress in the last election. Because schools can also develop much more flexible individual curricula, so that there is also a profile of the school, what they want to be stronger, what they want to be average, or what they want to pay less attention to. So schools have their freedom, teachers have their freedom, and thus the overload has also been reduced. It's about the teacher's qualification. The most important thing is obviously to improve children's knowledge, which is why there is a whole school system. Here I have 104 thousand objections to what you said, because 104,000 teachers have gone and qualified themselves as educators II. This means that, even after decades of practice, he has rethought how to better teach the curriculum that is usually largely the same in scientific fields, where there are few areas where there are novelties in the lexical part of primary or secondary school material, but how to bring it even more to students to today's thinking. That's why we made a lot of digital material, which is why there's a lot of schools now that's smart. If you've tried these... From home animals to history studies, there are spectacular, visual opportunities in a school today that we would not think of. Many people, of course, come from what their own textbooks were 20, 30 or 40 years ago, and they are asking for it in the current government, but these today's textbooks, these today's textbooks, thank God, are very, very far away from it. And yes, for a teacher there is much more opportunity to give his students all these knowledge elements in other visual ways. This is why we have started many other programs, starting with the Lázár Ervin programme, which are trying to deepen this knowledge beyond the 45-minute limit of the school, but beyond school or school time, even with the Wonder Deer programme or the Erzsébet Camps with the thematic Erzsébet Camps. Nevertheless, what you have said is very important, but I have already said this today to be in consultation. It is very important that we continue to strengthen the teaching field, as well as to ensure that as many people as possible apply and that this field is recognised financially as well. That's why we started the Klebelsberg program, which you know, the scholarship program. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] So that as many people as possible can choose this course during the university years. The last number I would charge you with was 5400 of the teachers' students in 2010 and 7424. So we're not so bad at this either. [[The president's ringing again.]] I don't know what they're saying. To keep them on the teaching field, well, we have a job to do together. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-13-28	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Gy. Ms Erzsébet Németh, DK Group on Current Affairs. You have the floor, Congresswoman. [[14.10]]
u2022-06-13-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The current issue I would like to talk about in front of this House is a human and political lesson in the regulation of the European minimum wage. Today, on 13 June 2022, we can say more and more safely than ever: there will be a European minimum wage regulation. Last week, the European Parliament reached a preliminary agreement, and it is now up to the Prime Minister of the 27 Member States to give the last green signal on Thursday. Thus, ladies and gentlemen, in advance of the success of adoption, the time has come to talk about two of the most important lessons to be learned from the creation of a European minimum wage regulation, human and political lessons. Let us start with the most important one, because the European minimum wage regulation can create the basic conditions for hundreds of thousands of Hungarians to pay decent wages and a decent living. In comparison, instead of today's net HUF 133 thousand, the Hungarian minimum wage could rise by the quarter, which will amount to nearly HUF 35 thousand per month in the wallet of Hungarian workers working for minimum wage. Of course, the members of the government may wave at this, since this amount is almost invisible to the naked eye, with their free eyes, but for those people who have to decide very important things in these weeks, this amount will also provide significant help. You know, fellow Members, we are talking about the Hungarian people who, as summer approaches, are forced to choose between a one-week bus trip or the payment of expensive medicines purchased for parents. We are talking about the people who, after the 12 years of government of the Orbán government, have reached the point of not being able to solve the daily, day-to-day production. We're talking about the hundreds of thousands your government has forgotten about. What is more, he did not merely forget, but deliberately kept their wages low so that he could deliver them to the large Hungarian companies and foreign companies, which led these people to believe that the work of the Hungarian people was not worth as much as the work of an Austrian or Dutch worker. European minimum wage regulation will also bring about a significant change. In addition to making payments more competitive, it will also provide greater protection of interests and better working conditions for Hungarian people. It will confirm exactly what the Fidesz government has systematically destroyed and destroyed over the past decade. And then we can slowly turn to the question of political lessons. In the Hungarian Parliament, we cannot go without saying what the governing party has done and what the largest opposition party, the Democratic Coalition, has done to bring the introduction of the European minimum wage regulation to the finish line. With due modesty, I can say that the achievement of the European minimum wage is the success of the political community of the Democratic Coalition, in which Klára Dobrev, our MEP, took a lion's share. In 2019 we promised that there would be a European minimum wage regulation, and we kept our promise. What did Fidesz do? It has truncated the European minimum wage regulation wherever it can. He called DK irresponsible and regulation unnecessary, forgetting that it was the fate of the Hungarian people, a more secure future. On one side, we can see a political party and a politician who has worked day and night for the last three years to fulfill his most important promise to help the most vulnerable Hungarian people. On the other hand, we see a government and its representatives, you, who have behaved shamefully, have put the interests of Hungarian people in the background. Dear Parliament, Admitting that you were wrong about being on the wrong side of history is still possible. The Hungarian Prime Minister has been given another chance to do so, to prove that he does not believe in the extremely vulnerable Hungarian workforce, and he already claims that the work of the Hungarian people cannot be less valuable than that of any other European citizen. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán will not have veto rights in the Council of Prime Ministers, but his vote will be symbolic. In three days, we will find out that the Prime Minister sided with the Hungarian people. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] or decided again against the Hungarian people. Thank you for listening. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2022-06-13-30	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[Interviews from DK benches, including Soros... Gyurcsány...]]
u2022-06-13-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I listened to you. Please give our constituents the honor of doing the same. I am pleased, however, that you do not first question today that the Gyurcsány Party is the strongest on the left. [[Interview from DK's benches: Did we say no?]] I'd like to thank you for that. I'm just saying it because everyone on the same list denies it. The proposal you put forward shows a political-philosophical difference between us. You would transfer powers to the Brussels institutions in a number of areas. That is what they do in tax policy, that is what they do in wage policy, that is what they have just said, and that is what they do in migration. And we have the experience that if we transfer powers to the Brussels institutions, then the multi-nationals will have a much greater impact on how decisions are going to turn out than individual citizens. So here's the difference in principle between us. For example, we have experience of how prices in the energy market developed when they were entrusted to the free market, otherwise in line with the liberalisation efforts in Brussels. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that energy prices have increased significantly even before the war, and according to Eurostat, this is the main cause of inflation by more than 26 percent, so we have experience of giving out powers, and this will help us to the will of Brussels and to the lobbying of multinationals. As regards the issue of minimum wage: the credibility of your proposals clearly shows what was the result of the 3 April election. And if we start from numbers, we have experience of the minimum wage when you were 73 thousand forints; now 200,000 forints, so we have more than three times as much. The minimum wage for skilled workers is 260,000 forints, which is three times as much. Meanwhile, the net average wages in Hungary increased by 70 percent, with some 15% under your not-short-term governance. So what the sensitivity of the left in practice means is that we have experience. And to tell you one more thing, a few weeks ago, there was an election here; you had a candidate for Prime Minister. What did the Prime Minister candidate say about minimum wage? That he doesn't support it. So your official position a few days ago was not to support the minimum wage. That's it. [[Gergely Harvesto: Come on!]] If we are talking about matters of livelihood, then, in the current situation, the issue of war, war inflation, is inevitable. The fact of the war alone has increased prices, and the sanctions policy has just put a shovel on it. If we are talking about Brussels matters, we cannot do that. The war has led to unprecedented increases in prices in Europe for decades, and if we look at the EU scene, a number of countries would continue to live up to the conflict with arms shipments or even more restrictive sanctions policies. On the other hand, we are in the position that we must do everything we can not to stir the conflict, but to bring peace, because if peace is achieved, then war inflation will also be broken. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] But we know that the left is pursuing a different policy, because Europeans are expected to pay the price of war. In Brussels, this effort is increasingly being turned into a programme. One of these names is energy efficiency sprint, quite a technocratic name, but that's his name. Its essence is simple: heat less, cook less, drive less. If you ask me why I raise this here: because the City Hall in Budapest, where there is left-wing leadership, wants to join in on this, Mayor Katalin Tüttő is keen to talk about it, and otherwise, under this programme, the speed limits would be reduced, public lighting limited, and it also includes the fact that public buildings can only be heated up to 18 degrees during the winter period. Katalin Tüttő argues that this programme can bring peace. On the same line, the Vice-President of the European Commission said that instead of washing, the clothes should be ventilated. You may be smiling, but it's not a joke, it's in this program. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Not on this! We're smiling at you!]] And I would like to draw your attention to the fact that sanctions policy has so far harmed Europe more than the aggressor that started the war. By April, Russia had earned the amount of money it had spent all year last year. [[14.20]] If there is a question that determines the livelihood of Hungarians and Europe as a whole, then it is a question of sanctions policy. So, I would like to ask you that if you are interested in the livelihood of Hungarians, you should ask the Hungarians for the first time how they want to limit their lives for the war of others. We don't want to interfere in riding out of the sea in their spare time. [[Gergely Harvestó: You want a minimum wage increase, you have to ask them!]] but we would like to ask you not to tell us how Hungarians live their own lives, especially when their proposals involve restricting life. This also shows what it is like to have a left-wing policy based on foreign expectations and not on the interests of Hungarians. Thank you for listening. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-13-32	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, István Simicskó, Head of the Group, KDNP Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech:. We will continue to protect families. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2022-06-13-33	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, As the family moves along, so does the nation and the whole world in which we live. ANNEX II In 1986 Pope John Paul formulated this wisdom, his wise idea of the importance of the family. Ladies and gentlemen, Family is an intimate environment of life and love, founded out of love, without love, the family cannot live or grow. The basic task of the family is to serve life. The family has a mission, a mission. In addition to serving life, the family does give the opportunity to make society more human. They teach a variety of subjects in universities, but they don't teach emotional wealth. They teach that in good families. This shows that the family is of great importance and that the family has great power. All good-willed people are in the family's service. Ladies and gentlemen, The family, if it works well, is practically like a small church, perhaps they will allow me to put it as a miniature church where they care for each other and love around their activities. Children are marriage, family's most expensive gifts. Today, ladies and gentlemen, the Western world is, in my view, seriously mistaken, because it is not interested in supporting families, increasing families, strengthening families, and it is not in favour of childbearing, but in support of migration. They give their young people unwitting, technocratic, digital knowledge. I have everything here, please: BSc, MSc, master's exam, master's degree, PhD training, at the age of 25, a doctor of philosophy, but where is the wisdom of life? That's life experience. Let me just mention this in this circle, because education in ancient China was so high that if someone has completed the highest level of Mandarin education, they could work in the state office, but they also wrote in a citation to his degree that he is an excellent talent, so the young man can only be a flourishing talent, not yet wise, but that is what we should teach our young people. Dear Parliament, So the future of mankind depends on families, family. It is therefore important that the Fidesz-KDNP government continue to expand and strengthen the system of family support. We Christian Democrats are pleased to see that this work continues in the current budget. With all kinds of difficulties, because of the prolonged war, economic crises, we also see the government making efforts to protect families. Support for families will increase by HUF 450 billion by 2023, next year. It's a huge asset in such a difficult situation. Family support and tax benefits amount to HUF 3225 billion. This is three and a half times the amount compared to 2010. In the budget, the government will ensure the continuation of the home creation programme, the priority will be to support childbearing, increase the amount for children's meals, and a long list could be made. The aim, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, is to make the fate of families easier and better. In 1927, John Wilson predicted that by 1977, the family would be virtually extinct and extinct. We do not see it that way, but we do see the future of our nation and the future of mankind in strengthening families. Family is the most important framework for passing on life and raising our children. Therefore, the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party will do everything in its power not only to adopt the budget, but also in the coming period to support families and support the government in this endeavour. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-13-34	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Eszter Vitalyos wishes to respond. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2022-06-13-35	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for your speech, because it gives us the opportunity to talk about what we think about the future, what we think about the future of Hungary. The aim of the Ministry of Culture and Innovation is to improve Hungary's potential for the future and to give everyone the right help for this development and personal development. The Ministry is thinking about management-oriented, thought-out and value-based developments that correspond to the ars poetic that we build on the legacy of the predecessors and build on the future. Family, child and youth policies will continue to help society to maintain itself and to pass on its values. This is why we can also call this portfolio the Ministry of Future Affairs, which includes family affairs, culture in the broader sense, vocational training, science policy, higher education, innovation and business development, i.e. all areas that determine the future potential of a nation. Mathematical questions are used to ask that the numerical result be justified in textual terms, but now I would reverse it, and my words are supported by numbers. A lot of things can be read from last week's budget, and I can also say that it speaks for itself, but let's look deep into it. In 2023 the budget provides some HUF 3225 billion in funding for Hungarian families, which is nearly HUF 450 billion higher than the amount in the 2022 budget. Nearly three and a half times compared to 2010, the government spends nearly HUF 2290 billion more on supporting Hungarian families. The tax and contribution allowance for families with the benefit of the first married couple is expected to exceed HUF 370 billion next year, HUF 155 billion will be spent to ensure that people under the age of 25 are free. From 2011 until the end of next year, there will be a total of HUF 3620 billion in Hungarian families. Next year, the budget will provide more than HUF 490 billion for the continuation of the home creation programme, compared to 2010, the government has increased the amount of housing subsidies by nearly three and a half times. Next year, support for children's meals will continue to grow, with nearly HUF 100 billion available for this purpose in 2023. This is about HUF 67 billion more than it was in 2010. The free textbook supply has become fully available from the school year 20-21, and we will spend more than HUF 13 billion on this next year. The maximum amount of ged has increased by more than two and a half times since 2010, and we have also introduced the grandparents' lawn. Complex cradle development has been completed, with 70 percent increase in the number of cradle facilities, three and a half times the number of facilities and services compared to 2010. Since 2012, a total of one million people have participated in some type of Erzsébet camp. The National Talent Program is also a success story, with over 19 thousand projects between 2009 and 22. You can see that it is also a lot and it is difficult to list how many measures have been taken to protect families. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Group Leader, before 2010, it was the same as having children before 2010, Balliberal governments abolished regular child protection support before 2010, family tax relief for parents with one and two children, reduced family tax relief for children with three and more children, reduced their children's time by one year. [[14.30]] The home creation system and the home creation benefits have also been abolished. As long as the left has raised taxes, we will return the personal income tax paid to families who have children, and we will maintain the cost reduction. We've introduced the interest rate stop, and we've also recorded the price of fuel. In addition, a price stop was introduced for certain basic foods. Since 2010, therefore, the Hungarian government has increased the support of families by three and a half times. You know, when I think about how my graduating son and my 12-year-old daughter encouraged me when I left for Parliament today, I think it's good that they give me so much love. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That's how much love is given to all those who live in families and raise families. At the same time, I also think that life has a natural direction, so this love will have to be passed on to them, not back. (The President indicated the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell. ) We provide all the help we can for this, because this is the future, and the Hungarian future is written by Hungarian families. Thank you for listening. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-13-36	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, Erik Bánki, Chairman of the Economic Commission, Fidesz Group, applied for a pre-meeting address. You have the floor.
u2022-06-13-37	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The government has submitted to Parliament a draft budget for 2023, which is a budget for public security and defence. There is war inflation and a war economic crisis threatening not only Europe but the whole world. Peace is needed, for when the war is over, the mad rise in prices will end. As long as the EU Member States finance the war situation, inflation will also increase. At present, the Hungarian government is almost the only one throughout the European Union, which does not talk about sanctions and war, but about the need for peace. [[Gergely Harvesto: It's a war emergency, hello! Noise in DK's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] Obviously, there are some business circles, perhaps the circles connected to George Soros are the strongest in this, which are interested in the war. War enthusiasts who want to earn money during the war, while the whole of Europe is ruined, but obviously they don't care, and they even bring it to the kitchen. War instigators, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, must be held back. Due to the prolonged war and sanctions in Brussels, there is a significant increase in prices across Europe and energy prices are skyrocketing. The most important goal of the government is for Hungary to stay out of the war, and not for the Hungarian people to pay the price of the war. The most important task now is to preserve Hungary's peace and security, and to ensure the country's energy supply and to protect the cost reduction. The government also protects the country's security in a prolonged war situation, protects the cost reduction, jobs, pensions, families and ensures the security of our country and the development of forces. The budget therefore includes a Rehabilitation and Defence Fund. The fund's revenue in 2023, my fellow Members, exceeds HUF 1450 billion, which will be covered by extra-profit and other revenue. We also expect those sectors that have made extra profits in the war situation to contribute to the protection of the country. Thanks to the reduction of the rent, Hungarian families currently pay the lowest fees across the European Union. The aim is to continue to maintain the reduction of the rent for the Hungarian population. This is the service of the Rezségvédelmi Fund, to which the government will spend HUF 670 billion. The Defence Fund creates sources of additional security measures, defence improvements and strengthens the physical security of our country. The fund's budget amounts to HUF 842 billion in 2023, so all defence expenditures reach the 2 percent GDP ratio expected by NATO. There is a need for further strengthening of security not only because of war, but also because of migration. The economic crisis caused by the war is launching another wave of migration to Europe, on which the Italian Government is already talking about specific figures and hundreds of thousands of measures. Hungary has been able to rely only on itself to protect the borders, and this is likely to continue to be the same. During the period of national governance, Hungary has achieved an economic turnaround: we have set the economy on a growth path, and we have preserved this despite the epidemic. Thanks to government measures and the economic reboot after the coronal virus epidemic, growth has reached pre-viral levels and even reached a record last year. He has decided a record, as the performance of the Hungarian economy has increased by 7.1 percent, which has never been seen in Hungary in recent years, in the past period of economic history. The aim is to continue growth next year, but unfortunately the war and its economic effects can slow this down, so in 2023 we expect 4.1 percent economic growth. However, the budget also provides additional resources for the development of the Hungarian economy. The budget shows that the government has been counting on the effects of war, sanctions, high energy prices, inflation, the slowdown of the European economy and the development of an uncertain world economy environment. Nevertheless, in 2023, it spends HUF 730 billion more on pensions, HUF 200 billion on education and HUF 100 billion on health expenses, for example. In support of families, the Hungarian government continues to spend the most in the European Union, HUF 3222 billion, which represents an increase of HUF 450 billion. Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, The budget of 2023 is therefore sound, it finances everything so that the performance of the Hungarian economy can continue to be among the first in Europe, and we protect the reduction of the rent, the Hungarian families and the Hungarian people. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-13-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, Deputy Minister, wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2022-06-13-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Extraordinary situation, extraordinary measure. As you said, we are in an extraordinary situation. We are in an extraordinary military situation, since the next war has been going on for over a hundred days. Before the outbreak of the war, a few days before February 24th, especially a few weeks ago, would anyone have thought what was waiting for us to see military aggression happening next door and war erupting? Would anyone have thought that the effects of this would be economically invaluable to the whole world, especially to Europe? Especially if the European Union takes measures in the context of the war that are more damaging to its own citizens, its own countries than, by the way, to the one to whom it is intended. It places the whole of Europe in a more difficult position, puts people in a more difficult position because of high energy prices than it would otherwise want to achieve from a military point of view. Yes, it is an extraordinary situation, because after the Covid epidemic, a completely different economic situation has developed around the world. The lack of raw materials, the increase in raw materials, the lack of chips, the difficulty of delivery have caused problems in the economy that cannot be overcome by everyone. Then came the energy crisis, the significant increase in energy prices. In such a situation, we must plan the 2023 budget. In a situation where it must be taken into account that the country must be strengthened from a military point of view. This is why it is necessary to establish a defence fund, which is why it is necessary to ensure the security of Hungary and the peace of Hungary with measures that we, as a small country, can take to protect ourselves. Extraordinary measures are needed to protect Hungarian families. It is an extraordinary measure, because if we allow Hungary the economic process that the European Union is strengthening, the strong and high energy prices, then the results that we have achieved in the last three cycles, in the last 12 years, can be thrown into the well in no time. [[14.40]] We cannot allow families in Hungary to pay energy prices and overhead costs as the European Union would otherwise like. Therefore, the Hungarian government did everything in its power, and the Prime Minister of Hungary, Viktor Orbán, did it in Brussels, he could see it, everyone could hear it. An exceptional measure is needed to this end, and therefore we have established a Trust Fund, the revenue side of which will be filled with extra-profit tax. Extra-profit tax is a tax paid by companies that have been caused by the extraordinary economic situation; a tax, from income, from profits that the company did not plan, could not have planned, because this was brought to them by the extraordinary economic situation. These additional revenues are not included in your business plans. From these revenues, we will protect families from increased overhead costs, as families should not be affected by high overhead costs. But in addition to the measures that have been implemented so far, which have helped to support Hungarian families, childbearing and child rearing, these programmes and the home creation programme will all continue. Overall, the budget and the balance budget also ensure the most basic objective, the protection of Hungarian families, the protection of pensioners, the protection of employment and the protection of the reduction of rent. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-13-40	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present further speeches outside the agenda.
u2022-06-13-41	Dear Parliament, Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Zoltán Varga, DK; Balázs Barkóczi, DK; Andrea Hegedüs, DK; Bence Tuzson, Fidesz. Máté Kanász-Nagy, LMP; Rebekah Szabó, Dialogue; Előd Novák, Mi Hazank; Ágnes Kunhalmi, MSZP; Ferenc Gelencsér, Momentum; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Lajos Oláh, DK; Hajnalka Juhász, KDNP; János Halász, Fidesz. Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik; István Szabadi, Mi Hazank; Dávid Dócs, Mi Hazank; Endre Tóth, Momentum; Lajos Löcsei, Momentum.
u2022-06-13-42	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that there was a motion to suspend the immunity of Mr László Sebian-Petrovszki, MEP DK, on 7 June 2022 13.Bpk.83/2022/6. I am also informed that László Varju, DK, Member of Parliament, has declared an infringement of the immunity of the President of the Parliament. The motions were issued to the immunity committee for examination by the Speaker of Parliament. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that the designated Committee on Foreign Affairs decided to hold a detailed debate at today's meeting, today's session will not be held with the publication of the T/119 Protocol to the Agreement establishing an Association between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Central America, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Final vote of bill No 1. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, Now, at 2:45 p.m., we're moving to interpellation negotiations. Until we continue our work, I am ordering a two-minute technical break so that my fellow Members can leave the Chamber quietly. (Sunning: 14.45 14.46) President: István Jakab Note: Dr. Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Szűcs)
u2022-06-13-43	Dear Parliament, I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats. We'll get back to work. Thank you for your understanding. Dear Parliament, [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Zoltán Varga, a representative of DK, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Technology and Industry: It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-06-13-44	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I suppose you'll answer it. I would like to share with you, with you, an experience of about two weeks, in case you understand, and you understand, Madam Secretary, why the municipalities should not be destroyed. You know, about two weeks ago, I met a family man from Debrecen who told me, well, with a pretty sad face, that, in fact, because of the government, you guys were the reason he couldn't take his six-year-old son to the children's day, and I'd like to tell you in advance that, in light of the story, that doesn't sound like much of an overstatement. It is well known that you have not paid properly to DHK Kft., the waste management company of the municipality of Debrecen, for years. Their current debt to the Debrecen company is now graduating the HUF 1 billion. This year, this debt to the State was already so high to the company that the company was forced to simply close the residential waste yard in Debrecen, which was set on fire in August 2021, and not reopen it. So far, any citizen in Debrecen has been able to take virtually any waste here, and at any time with a slight exaggeration and, of course, in a selective manner. You know, like it used to be, a broken fridge, whatever it was, whatever it was you could take to this common waste yard, you didn't have to stand in line much. Since you didn't pay for this municipal company, this waste yard simply closed after the exploding, and instead you can only move the waste to a landfill nearly 10 kilometers away from the city. All you have to do is spend a weekend on it. You can say it's not that much. Yes, but this waste disposal option is only now available to the Debrecen on Saturday-Sunday, and in addition or because of that, of course, you have to wait in line for several hours before you can even put down your waste. Believe me, Madam Secretary, this gentleman in Debrecen was quite angry, let us call him Balázs, who, for the sake of simplicity, spent the day of the child standing in such a line instead of taking his son to the children's day programs. [[14.50]] And he thought he was gonna do it this morning, before every family program, but he couldn't do it. So I ask Madam Secretary, why are you enemies of the Debrecen families? After all, if only on weekends, something of unbelievable quality, most easily accessible by a tank, kilometers, far outside the city, can be dumped after several hours of standing in a row, then they are. Why are you enemies of nature? After all, in the present situation, the trash is stored here not nearly selectively, but together and in bulk. Why are you enemies of the Debrecen forests? After all, a lot of people are dumping trash at the edge of the woods instead of waiting in line for hours. And last but not least, how many other cities are being destroyed and unlivable outside of Debrecen? Thank you very much, I look forward to your reply. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2022-06-13-45	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Zsófia Koncz responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2022-06-13-46	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Of course, I am very sorry that the father and his six-year-old son could not get to a children's day program, and I think that there were a lot of such colorful events in Debrecen that were waiting for the children's day. In my constituency, too, there were a lot of such programmes, so I would like to ask Mr. Congressman to deliver a little fortune chocolate to the little boy, and I would be very happy to give this to him in the hallway, and bring it with me for the day. Of course, I understand the father's frustration, but I'm sorry if that makes you jump to conclusions. When we talk about the opening hours of waste yards, the government doesn't say anything about it, each of them regulates it itself, so in good case they are available almost 260 days a year, and in the specific case they are available for nearly 104 days. I would like to inform the Member that Debrecen Waste Nonprofit Kft., mentioned in his interpellation, is a public service provider of Debrecen. the public service costs of the National Waste Management Coordinator and Asset Management Ltd. in recent years. In all cases, you have been reimbursed within the statutory deadline, provided with the necessary funding to carry out the activity, and therefore you have received incorrect information. As regards the closure of the Debrecen waste yard, it was due to a fire, as you mentioned, temporarily, during the completion of the renovation work. At the Regional Waste Management Centre, certain types of waste were allowed to be disposed of in order to ensure the disposal of waste to the general public. However, due to the nature of the Waste Management Centre, retail deposits could only be scheduled for the weekend, which is the reason for the temporary restrictions. The restoration of the waste yard is of course underway, according to the current schedule, construction works are expected to be completed by autumn 2022, while the service provider requests the patience of the Debrecens. Thank you very much for your interpellation, and I hope that on this issue, together with this specific information, I have managed to reassure you and the citizens interested in this topic. On the basis of these facts, in the spirit of cooperation, I ask for my answer to be accepted. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-06-13-47	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, for your reply. I ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2022-06-13-48	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I hope you brought a lot of lucky chocolates because the father named Balázs was very angry. It won't be easy to make it up to you. I must say that you have chosen a heavy bread secretary. As you can see, while your colleagues are doing perfectly well with their lies, you're still having a bit of a hard time with that. There's still some progress to be made in this, and I don't want to criticize it here. He is simply not telling the truth, or he is in a material error, as you said, according to his common name, the debt of the national kukaholding was still more than HUF 890 million at the May General Assembly of the Municipality of Debrecen. So what you're saying is that they're paying off their debt for the time being, it's just not true. Secondly, I am not surprised that you do not take responsibility now, because a government that manipulates the public, distorting the electoral system, keeping its own citizens in fear, does not rule the country as a legitimate government, will never be important to the country. I don't accept your answer. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2022-06-13-49	Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, János Bencze, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Economic Development:. When does the government finally take part in the Hungarian people's party? It's an address. By responding to the interpellation, Prime Minister Mihály Varga, Minister of Finance, who is responsible and competent according to the subject. Deputy Minister András Tállai responds to the interpellation on behalf of Minister. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-06-13-50	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, We live here in the Carpathian Basin, in Europe's most productive and excellent climatic areas. Yet, inflation, which has been at its peak for several decades, is the agricultural sector and agricultural crops most affected. The increase in the price of food produced and processed food is further increased by the high, 27 percent VAT, which results in the problem of daily shopping for an average Hungarian household. This is an increasing cost, and it is increasingly difficult for them to obtain quality, high quality food here in the middle of the Carpathian Basin. In the last one or two months, the price of certain products has increased by 15-20 percent per month. For example, chicken meat, flour and others, but if you look at price increases over a longer period of time, this could be 50-60 percent. And what is particularly sad is that, in addition to excellent production areas and good agricultural conditions, fruit and vegetables have been through a lot of expensive times over the last few months. We could say a lot of things here, but some of it's almost priceless for people. I'm thinking of 1200 forints of tomatoes and 500 forints of new potatoes. And what is particularly sad is that economic analysts predict another 15-20 percent increase for the coming months. You have heard, the President of the Bakery Association said that by autumn bread can reach 800 forints, but there are more pessimistic predictions on their part, which means two or three times more expensive. This is due to the fact that in recent years flour as a raw material has increased by several times, the cost of overhead has also increased by several times, and it will also find out about the increase in fuel. Instead of slogans that ring well, we ask Hungarian families for real help, we ask the Hungarian government to support Hungarian people; the Hungarian people who, walking between the shelves of the shops, are increasingly confronted with the situation of what to take off, what to give up on their daily shopping; the people who live below the minimum wage level. There are many in this country and in the city, they need help now. The Jobbik for Hungary Movement as a right-wing, conservative party has put a proposal on the table for you to reduce the VAT on basic foods to zero percent. Because we stand up for the people who live below the minimum of living. If you introduced this, there would be a lot more left in the wallet of an ordinary Hungarian family. If you look at this type of solution for an average Hungarian family with two children, the zero-percent basic food VAT would leave more in their wallets than the family allowance, which is currently 26 600 forints per point. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2022-06-13-51	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Deputy Minister András Tállai responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2022-06-13-52	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would also like to say to you, like last week, to Jobbik's speaker, that a party is not a right-wing conservative because it stands up in Parliament and says that I am, but that it is conservative and right-wing from what it does, the way it is political, its messages. You're not a right-wing conservative party, even though you'd like to be after the election, you're a left-wing party. You are a department of the Gyurcsány Party, DK, an extreme right-wing department. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: Is it now right or left?]] And as for your interpellation, the point of my reading is that you list the products, how much the price has increased, and you list the ones that will rise in your opinion, and you conclude that the VAT on basic foods has to be set at zero percent, and then everything will be resolved. [[15.00]] So if the VAT on basic foods is zero percent, then there will be no inflation and people in the store don't have to pay much for these products. Let us see what is real in contrast. This method was tried in Poland this year. In February, VAT on food was reduced to zero per cent in a significant product range, and inflation in Poland was already above 10 per cent in March. Nothing has been achieved, but the state has lost significant revenue. Let's look at your theory from a political point of view. The problem you raise is that when the government has suggested that the VAT on basic foods should not be zero percent in such an exceptional economic situation, your faction, your party, has never voted for it in any case. From a political point of view, it is still part of what he has to say that you have no responsibility for how the budget's revenue and expenditure balance remains, you have no responsibility for further reducing the budget deficit, for reducing public debt. It is only natural that such a suggestion is easy to make. In my opinion, we must first examine for everyone, for your party, what causes inflation, why inflation is high in Hungary, and where Hungarian inflation stands in Europe's field. And you can see that, through the government's measures, inflation is lower than would otherwise be allowed by economic processes. It's 5-6 percent lower because of the fuel stop and the food stop. The Hungarian government believes that income must be significantly increased. That is why it raised the minimum wage, the guaranteed minimum wage, and seeks to give farmers the opportunity and the source of their profits to increase workers' wages. Next year we want to achieve a 10.2% increase in income. That's what the Hungarian government believes. This is how inflation can be overcome, in the present situation, by war inflation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-13-53	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, I'll ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2022-06-13-54	I do not accept the answer, because we asked for help from Hungarian families and not lectures. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-06-13-55	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I would like to inform you that, according to our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Szabolcs Szabó, representative of Momentum, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior: When and by how much will the wages of teachers be increased to finally be recognized and respected? It's an address. Mr Szabolcs Szabó has the floor.
u2022-06-13-56	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, You were also at the Minister's hearing, where the Minister said the following about the teacher's wages, and I would quote, just for the benefit of the others:. I also looked at the number of applicants for physics and chemistry in higher education, one 22 and the other 25, respectively. Therefore, this will not provide reinforcements. In order for this to grow, payment is not the only solution. To grow, it takes social prestige. It also has to be done,, i.e. the increase in wages, but in creating social prestige, we can only give support, and teachers, in large part, have to reach it themselves. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. At the time, there was no way to respond to the Minister's comment, so I thought we should discuss it in an interpellation that this is not quite the case. The prestige is the end of the process and the beginning of the process is the wage increase. And I'll tell you why. That's because fewer and fewer people are applying to teachers. Less and less of those who do it are going to work as educators. A lot of people at the age of 30-40 quit teaching and more and more retire. This results in a shortage of teachers, and that's why there are a lot of jobs that don't apply to chemistry or physics teachers anymore. In good cases, they are replaced by a traveling educator, and in worse cases they are replaced by another science teacher, even worse by a completely different teacher. From a pedagogical point of view, none of it is a good, even a bad solution. That's what needs to be changed. The thing is, in the short term, there's only one thing that can help that is a wage increase. It's a marginal condition, because if we raise wages, we can at least bring the graduates back into the system, or we can add fresh graduates to the system. If we gave you a 50 percent wage increase, we'd be raising wages near the average salary of the national economy and not above it. In the medium term, it may be helpful to encourage educators to complete at least a close course similar to their existing course, for example, to train a biology teacher to become a chemistry teacher, rather than starting a young person's training from scratch. And in the long term, it will help that if we have the right wage, that we create an environment that encourages teachers to do creative pedagogical work, that gives them their professional autonomy, we help them with pedagogical assistants, professionals and methodological support. So it is clear that the prestige that the Minister spoke of is the end of the process; the beginning is clearly the wage increase. Based on this, I'd like to ask you when and by how much you're planning to raise your teachers' wages. I'm waiting for an answer. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Momentum.]]
u2022-06-13-57	Dear Parliament, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2022-06-13-58	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Mr. Congressman has often changed his opinion, he has sat here in various formations, he is now sitting in the Momentum, but he has also been independent, LMP and ensemble politicians. Each one had different ideas about education, but it seems that he was able to embrace them quickly and flexibly. For the government, the wage increase for teachers was clearly the most important after 2010. Those with whom you are politicalising have been taken from the Hungarian teachers before 2010, they have taken away from all Hungarian teachers, from all Hungarian teachers for a month's wages. They weren't talking about what you said, or maybe they were talking about it, but they were doing the opposite. And, you know, the tuition has been introduced. So if someone wanted to be a physics teacher, but their parents didn't have enough money, they couldn't leave because they couldn't pay the tuition. That was your suggestion. The closure of schools in more than 300 places, the wage cuts for teachers, and all of this has been marked by the dismissal of 15,000 teachers. This foundation, this experience, this past, this line of action is what you can stand on as a political foundation when you give your opinion on education. And this could be the fourth formation, just like you're in the horseshoe inside the left. On the other hand, in 2013, when the economic turn of events took place, and instead of the decline until then, the Hungarian economy finally started to recover, we started the first 50 percent wage increase program in teachers. That was a 50 percent wage increase in four years. After that, two years ago, and this year, there was also a decision that increased the wages of teachers by 10-10 percent. And when you look at the budget, you see that there is a 70-72 percent increase in total expenditure on teachers, education and school systems in these years. So as soon as we had the chance, we wanted to invest this resource in the future. As soon as the Hungarian companies produced this additional revenue, which was included in the budget, we immediately spent it on education. On the other hand, the former president of your current party, his current group leader, said so much about the Hungarian school system during the presentation of your educational program that there is an immense number of schools in Hungary, and their quality is very poor. He said it's too much school and it's too bad. The 170,000 Hungarian teachers, the thousands of schools, have so much opinion that there are too many schools, less schools, and a lot of quality. So they are not satisfied with what Hungarian teachers are doing. Obviously, there are people everywhere who offer better performance, some who do less better, but with such a slendrian sentence to arrange for the Hungarian education system, that less schools are needed and very bad, what they are doing now is not exactly an increase in prestige. You spoke about the need to increase prestige. I think that it is important to increase prestige if a politician, for example, does not speak in the same way as your group leader, not speak lightly, instructively, disdainfully about Hungarian teachers, but speaks with a little more respect about Hungarian education and does not narrow down his opinion on the word "ramaty" about Hungarian education. I think that would be an important question for teachers in prestige. [[15.10]] Our plan, which you know, Mr honourable Member, because here in Parliament, as well as in the Prime Minister, ministers and State Secretarys, we have talked a lot about this, and this year's 10 percent wage increase must be followed by a 10 percent wage increase in the following year and another 10 percent wage increase in the following year. This means a 30 percent increase this year, next year and then. Of course, we are open to agree on a higher wage increase, but at present we see this as a cover in the budget and economic figures. If the Hungarian economy can grow better, for example because it is less choked by the wrong sanctions in Brussels, we can talk about a bigger increase, but only if the economy can grow better. That would be a good thing if you were partners. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] and they would not do it everywhere so that the more severe sanctions will be imposed on Hungary as much as possible, but we will be able to better and more encouragingly discuss the increase in teachers' wages with fewer sanctions and more revenue. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-13-59	Thank you for the Deputy Minister's reply. I'll ask the congressman to accept the Deputy Minister's reply. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Yes!]]
u2022-06-13-60	Thank you very much for the floor. Of course, I'm not likely to surprise Congressman Nacsa. I put up professional arguments, we actually got political lounges. But then, to be more specific. At the ministerial hearing, we all remember that Minister Pintér mentioned the school assembly and the pooling of secondary schools. So let me get this straight. On the other hand, how well the dialogue is going: today was the first trial of the National Teacher Faculty and the Minister of the Interior, wages and labour costs were not mentioned. Then what are you talking about? Because we're in the 24th hour. That's what I'm saying, the general opinion of the profession. If there is no wage increase, then this is over, unfortunately, education will be ruined at a level that cannot be returned from there. There is no reference here to Brussels for any economy or anything. I need an immediate wage increase, period. There's no other way. That's the opinion of the profession. I don't accept the answer. [[A round of applause from Momentum.]]
u2022-06-13-61	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman did not accept the Deputy Minister's reply. I would like to inform you that a decision will be taken in accordance with our agreed agenda on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Imre Komjáthi, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance: It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-06-13-62	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, We remember that in 2010, Fidesz promised to protect pensions and then stole and disappeared thousands of billions of pension savings. Unfortunately, it has been proven several times since then that what the government is trying to protect is going to cost us money cuts right now, I'm just saying. But let's cut to the chase. Before the elections, we were promised a supplementary pension increase in June, since then we have known that only in July. Why is that important? Because hundreds of thousands of pensioners living from today to tomorrow, whose care is less than HUF 100,000, it is very important when they receive the difference and when they make up for the pension with inflation. We know that life still costs a lot more, but all help is help. Now the pensioners will have to wait another month for help. In March 2022, days before the elections, on 22 March, the Ministry of Finance issued a communication in response to the MNB's inflation report, in which they reminded that the government decided in advance on the rate of the pension increase, which was 5 percent this year, on the basis of the inflation forecast, but in the event of a significant deviation, a two-step pension supplement will take place in the first June, the second November. On 30 March, the pro-government Hungarian Nemzet presented the statement by András Tállai, Deputy Minister of Finance, which said that if inflation increases more than expected due to the conflict in Ukraine, the government will provide a pension increase during the year, in June. But when ATV asked about the pension increase on 12 April, the Prime Minister's Office replied that even if inflation increased more than expected, it would also provide a pension increase during the year, in June. According to KSH data, food inflation was 13 per cent and the food price index of pensioners was more than 13.4 per cent. So the rate of inflation of pensioners will be much higher than the increase they received. That's why I'm asking why pensioners were promised something else before the election, and when they pushed off the mid-term pension increase for a month. Do you think, Mr. Secretary, that the 3.9 percent increase will be enough for the pensioners? Thank you for your reply.
u2022-06-13-63	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Deputy Minister András Tállai responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2022-06-13-64	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The Fidesz government made the political promise in 2010, 12 years ago, to protect the purchasing value of pensions, every year, no matter what economic situation the country is in. That's a promise he made. This promise was fulfilled and will be fulfilled in 2022. It will deliver by showing that inflation will be higher in terms of inflation at the beginning of the year, so it will pay the increase for the first semester in July, despite all legal obligations, which has now been set at 3.9 percent. So, going back to every month and 13th month's pension, you're going to get a pension supplement and a raise. It is true that the preliminary communication was planned for June, which is now slipping over to July, which, I accept, is a problem, but I'll tell you a bigger problem. Do you know when retirement was a problem and a problem? When your partymates were ruling. I'll tell you why. I'll give you a list, okay? In 2008, during the Gyurcsány government, the real value of pensions decreased by 8 percent [[Nacsa Lőrinc Komjathi to Imre: Did you still tell me this?]] In the following year, at the time of the Bajnai government, 6.4 percent [[Moors and interruptions in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Between 2005 and 2010... if it hurts, if it doesn't hurt, these are the facts. Now he's demanding a month on us. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] That we said June and July, we'll accept a month's delay, but going backwards... I'm just telling you how the pensioners suffered from your government. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Now 8.2! Nacsa Lawrence: Then you weren't loud!]] Between 2005 and 2010, the real value of pensions decreased by 10 percent during the Gyurcsány and Bajnai governments. One month's pension was taken from 2.2 million people, and women after 40 years of retirement were not voted out. Honourable Congressman, Every year, depending on the performance of the economy, the Fidesz Government complements pensioners' pensions, as has been said, to provide a pension increase going backwards. By the way, the law makes this mandatory in November, based on the first eight months of economic data. Thus, for this question, to suffice for a 3.9 percent increase in pension: if inflation is higher than 5+3.9, then, in September, after the first eight months of macroeconomic data, the government will make a new addition in November. With one forint, we will not be indebted to pensioners. Honourable Congressman, I think the Fidesz government has nothing to be ashamed of about pensioners. What the Fidesz government has promised in the last three cycles and now in the fourth cycle, it always does, which, once again, is to preserve the purchasing value of pensions in all economic conditions. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-13-65	Thank you very much for the Deputy Minister's reply. I'll ask the congressman to accept the Deputy Minister's reply. You have the floor. [[15.20]]
u2022-06-13-66	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. How can I accept it? It's nothing more than an explanation. And I can't accept it because just like firefighters can't fill up with adrenaline rushes, pensioners can't take promises. And by the way, I propose more modesty, Mr. Secretary, both for you and for your associates. You were the ones who stole the pension fund back then and spent it. You were also the ones who did not support any proposal from the MSZP that would have helped pensioners. And you know what, Mr. Secretary? No one eats well with the ringing and the serialization. It's a shame what you're doing when you've come all these years! [[Bence Rétvári: Ferenc Gyurcsány, two months ago!]] What matters is what you do now. He doesn't care about the people, the pensioners who live from day to day, what happened before 2010, what he cares about now; and now it's that slowly the chicken's back, even the priced chicken's back is eaten out by inflation. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] From their stew. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-13-67	Dear Parliament, If I have understood correctly, the Member did not accept the reply of the Deputy Minister. I would like to inform you that decisions will be taken in accordance with our agreed agenda on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, István Apáti, representative of Mi Hazank, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Technology and Industry:. Why do Hungarian small businesses have to pay the price of the war and election campaign? It's an address. Congressman István Apáti has the floor.
u2022-06-13-68	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Madam Deputy Minister, On 4 June, in a government decree, you informed Hungarian society that from now on they intend to maintain the benefits of the reduction of the rent only for the population. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's not true!]] At the same time, the short list of positive factors has ended; at least for retail consumers, they have not yet been excluded from this discount. At least 30-40,000 Hungarian micro- and small entrepreneurs who are obviously forced to raise prices will be forced to pass on the negative effects of the increase to their customers and consumers, but according to the Secretary-General of VOSZ, mass bankruptcy will still not be avoided. To the best of all, you have mistaken and mistaken tens of thousands or perhaps hundreds of thousands of Hungarians during the election campaign, because that was not the case at the time. For at least 30-40,000 micro- and small business operators, at least three to five times, but in the worst case scenario, an increase of up to seven times is expected. Until this government decree was published, companies with less than ten employees or companies with a net annual turnover of HUF 4 billion could benefit from the reduction of the rent. As one of the first actions of the fifth Orbán government, it now seeks to put an end to this. Not to mention, what can be done with the business community where the entrepreneur or the manager's permanent residence and the head office of the company coincides, at one and the same address, how will electricity or gas consumption for residential and entrepreneurship be separated? This is the case in an economic environment where a number of adverse impacts, individually and individually, place a heavy burden on a small enterprise, together. I am thinking of the serious shortage of stocks, raw materials, parts and labour, and I am thinking of historic inflation, which has not been seen for about 30 years, the record-weak forint at the historical low point, and if we look back for the last two years, we see that there have been exceptional measures, restrictions and bans that have not been seen since World War II, both the population and entrepreneurs have faced, and in these circumstances it has certainly not been easy for any business to maintain the old level of income. In the view of the Hungarian Movement, it is not the small entrepreneurs who should be burdened by blowing up the market rent on them in such an unfavourable economic environment, but by taking it from where it has produced extra profit in recent years. What we call an epidemic solidarity tax, you call an extra-profit tax [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] measures should be extended to vaccine manufacturers, pharmaceutical manufacturers and all those where extra profit has been produced, not to small businesses which, unlike the Minister for Economic Development (The President bell rings). They won't be able to manage it. I ask the Deputy Minister if she is willing to withdraw the measure or, if not, what kind of compensation, what kind of help these businesses and their employees can expect from you. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-06-13-69	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Three minutes for the congressman's speech. I give the floor to Secretary of State Zsófia Koncz, who responds to the interpellation. Here you go.
u2022-06-13-70	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, War inflation is already here, and the war economic crisis is threatening our country, and unfortunately we have to assume that the war will go on and that the budget of 2023 will be able to manage it. Due to the price cap on fuel, the price stop on food and the reduction in overhead prices, inflation in Hungary does not increase as much as in other countries of Europe. The government knows and feels that the current 10 percent is also burdensome for families, but without the government's economic measures, this would be another 5-6 percent. The budget will also protect Hungarian families, the support system for families and the reduction of the rent. The government has made it clear that, despite the war conditions and the sanctions policy in Brussels, it will provide Hungarian families with the results of the reduction of the rent. As a result, Hungarian families currently pay the most favourable fees in the European Union. The aim is to continue to maintain the reduction of the rent for the Hungarian population, which is why we have created a Rezségvédelmi Alapítvány, to which the government spends HUF 670 billion. In recent years, the prices of natural gas and electricity on the international market have risen to a spectacular and multi-annual peak. The measures taken to reduce the cost of electricity and gas in Europe will still not allow freed electricity and gas prices to appear in domestic retail tariffs. As a result of the reduction, the citizens had about HUF 2162 billion left until the end of August 2021, i.e. that was their savings, a family could save an average of HUF 170,000 per year. The government will continue to protect the country's security, families, the economy, pensioners, jobs, and the good news of the Member's concrete suggestion is that the government has decided that 100,000 small and medium-sized enterprises, small and micro-enterprises will remain part of the reduced-price energy supply, i.e. the protected budget. Small and micro-enterprises are hit hard by the current energy situation, so the government will provide them with the results of the reduction of their costs. This measure will certainly have a positive impact on the functioning of small firms. With the aid, the government aims to ensure that smaller businesses are not damaged in the energy crisis and therefore do not have to change their business model. Thank you very much for your question, and I trust you have received a reassuring answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-13-71	I thank the Secretary of State for her reply. I ask the congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2022-06-13-72	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I am pleased that if even a small entrepreneur is better off tomorrow than he was today, but I cannot accept his reply, since he has been able to bypass why it is not considered important to extend the extra-profit tax even to vaccine manufacturers and pharmaceutical companies that have made amazing profits over the past two years. [[Bence Rétvári: The drug dealer is involved!]] Why or how can casinos still not be connected to the online system of the NAV and are not affected by any extra public burden? In fact, there are multinational tech companies that have also been prominent beneficiaries of the past two years, who, according to unwritten rules, are always the winners of all legislative changes and economic changes. If these courageous, truly freedom fighters were willing to take action, a much wider range of entrepreneurs could be permanently reduced. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-06-13-73	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The Member therefore did not accept the response to the interpellation. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, our decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Sándor Berki, a representative of the Dialogue, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. Are you willing to review the age of compulsory education after a decade? It's an address. Congressman Sándor Berki has the floor.
u2022-06-13-74	Dear Secretary of State, From 1 September 2012, the Act by which the second Orbán government reduced the general age of compulsory education from 18 to 16 years will apply. [[15.30]] The change triggered significant debates even at the time of adoption. A large part of the experts criticized the government's proposal at the time, regardless of political affiliation. We are now standing within the walls of Parliament, and ten years have passed. These ten years should be enough to make clear the consequences of the amendment of the law at that time. That it was good for Hungarian education or not. For example, we know that after the entry into force of the law, there has been a significant increase in the number of public workers. In 2013, for example, 17 percent of all public workers were out of public education. This went on until the government launched the Youth Guarantee programme, which aims to help people under the age of 25 to find a job. We also see that the proportion of early school leavers has risen from 10.8 to 12 percent in the last 12 years, while this figure is falling in the EU. KSH data also confirm this: in the years following the entry into force of the Act, the number of high school children started to decline, and in the two years 2014-2016, the number of vocational schoolchildren decreased from 102 thousand to 90 thousand. That's twice as much as the number of high school students is falling. The employment rate also shows worrying data. According to KSH data, the number of public workers increased from 1.8 percent in the 15-19-year-old population to 5 percent. From January 2013 onwards, it increased more than five times in the 16-25-year-old population. Dear Secretary of State, Unfortunately, the law amendment fell victim to the very children who most need the safety net of the state, the attention of educators, because these are often disadvantaged children with bad family backgrounds, who need the care of the school and teachers to thrive in life. I therefore ask you to answer my question: after ten years, after a decade's experience, the Government is willing to review its previous decision and restore its obligation to study by the age of 18. Thank you for your reply.
u2022-06-13-75	Dear Parliament, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2022-06-13-76	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Today in Hungary, the age limit is the same as higher in Denmark, Estonia, Bulgaria, Spain, Malta, the Netherlands, Sweden or Slovakia, and today in Hungary! the age limit for compulsory education, such as in the Czech Republic, Austria, Croatia, Cyprus, Switzerland or Slovenia. Therefore, we cannot say that the age limit for Hungarian education would stand out in any way from other European countries. We are at the same level with eight countries, and in Hungary the school age is higher than six countries. Filling in the education obligation does not mean that someone is not entitled to study after it, of course, because if you are in high school, you can get your diploma, you can also get a job free of charge, you can get a second profession free of charge, you can apply to university, and you can get a degree at university. So, for everyone, this option is the same as before, but there are different age limits in different countries, which is why we Hungarians are in the average field at the moment, we can say. In order that those who come from a difficult situation or have some difficulties with learning can be prevented early, we have introduced compulsory kindergartens from the age of three, precisely so that when one is 14-15-16 years of age, there should be no difficulty in learning that foundation, preparation for school, is mandatory, precisely for those of the most deprived, whom you have referred to at the age of three. Not in a 16-18-year-old age group is a subsequent compulsion in which he can or can not perform in that school situation, but in his three-year-old age. And of course, there is an early warning and pedagogical support system, which also helps these children to be recognized. We have raised this to 20 percent today, we have raised the time frame from 10 percent to 20 percent that schools can devote to catching up and caring for talent. Exactly so that if there's a school with a lot of kids like that, they can spend more time on it. There are schools you know very well, that's why we can talk about thousands of children, who we help in schools, 183 schools, 5500 children to get help after school hours. College programmes, Travel Scholarship, Nationality Scholarship, Roma College Program, all help to provide additional support for children in difficult situations. If you look at how the proportion of children living in families with very low work intensity has changed, it has decreased from 15 percent to 5 percent. Obviously, this is primarily about family circumstances. If you look at the change in unemployment figures among young people at the age of 15-24, from 26 percent to half, it fell to 13 percent. If you look at the employment rate, it's up from 18 percent to 27 percent, so these kids are much better placed. So they can finish school, they get extra help through schools, colleges, scholarships, and besides, their employment numbers are much better, so now, ten years later, the school system can better prepare them for their position in the world of work. It gives them knowledge that will make unemployment less their fate and future, but rather employment. So if you ask after ten years that this measure has been successful: it has been successful, because this number, as I said, does not stand out from the numbers of other European countries, but at the same time provides better employment, a better job opportunity now, obviously, with the ability to boost economic life than we did ten years ago. We are confident that by increasing the number of free courses for all young people in both middle and upper levels, by providing new schools and other help, we were able to really create a chance for those who ten years ago saw that they did not stand a chance. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-13-77	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I'll ask the congressman to accept the Deputy Minister's reply.
u2022-06-13-78	Mr State Secretary, first of all, thank you for your professional response. I have to say that there is part of what we agree on, but please look at the other side as well. I believe that we are in partnership with everyone in terms of numbers, so we are good at comparing, but please also accept that there are parts of the country, and there are cases where it is important to have a higher age. But if you think that raising the age limit might not solve this situation, then I would ask you to take into account the opportunities for young adults and the dangers that, in many cases, even if it is their own fault or some other mistake, they fall out of the system of how to avoid it and how to keep them in. I'm saying that there's still a lot of things that could be improved, so I'm asking you to listen to the civilians in this, and to have a better cooperation. I cannot accept your reply for this reason, but thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the opposition benches.]]
u2022-06-13-79	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman did not accept the Deputy Minister's reply. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Bakos, representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Technology and Industry:. Will the climate lease be introduced to deal with the energy crisis? It's an address. Congresswoman Bakos Bernadett has the floor.
u2022-06-13-80	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Last week, my fellow Member, Mr Antal Csárdi, asked before the agenda, Mr Balázs Fürjes replied that the government is ready to give serious consideration to our proposal on climate lease. We would welcome this, and most importantly, the country would be pleased, because it would significantly improve our energy security, reducing dependence on fossil energy, whether Russian, American or Saudi. For our energy independence, we need a systemic change in our overall energy management, including transport. Community transport can radically reduce energy demand and emissions in the sector and therefore increase the share of regular users of Community transport. Climate leases make public transport more attractive and help all those who are having difficulty in transport due to energy prices that are loose. We propose that the air-conditioning lease would cost HUF 5000 per month, and would apply to all domestic public transport equipment, except, of course, the required flights. We'd like to introduce the air-conditioning pass for three months. After the expiry of the three months, a genuine social consultation should be carried out to ensure that the climate lease remains permanent or periodically, and what improvements are needed to maintain it, and from what source it can be financed. The permanent introduction of the climate lease is proposed after this real social consultation, so it is not after a normal national consultation. The introduction of a three-month air-conditioning lease is an essential condition for the State to assume its full costs. With the estimated costs of approximately HUF 100 billion, the bled out municipalities and public transport companies have no resources. The State, on the other hand, is able to provide an easy cover for a green measure, e.g. introducing a 25 per cent corporate tax rate for multi-enterprises and large companies. [[15.40]] It could only be financed from MOL's tax on its thousand billion-dollar profits last year, and what would be clearer and more logical than covering climate-friendly and energy-independent measures from the extra profit of a polluting large company? Dear Secretary of State, Does the government introduce climate leases, support LMP proposals in this regard in Parliament? Thank you very much.
u2022-06-13-81	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Zsófia Koncz responds to the interpellation. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
u2022-06-13-82	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to thank you for the fact that, like the Hungarian Government, LMP considers it very important to promote public transport. The government is looking at all foreign, European and, of course, German examples of this, but I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the war on the territory of Ukraine has an impact on the lives of Hungarian families, as the result of this is a drastic increase in energy prices. Therefore, one of the government's primary objectives is to bring about the reduction of the burden on families and the stability of energy supply. Hungary has taken a number of steps in recent years to ensure energy supply. Let me list some of these: in terms of energy diversification, for example, it is very important to point out that Hungary is now connected to six countries from seven countries through an interconnector, we have concluded long-term contracts, we have established the Defence and Security Funds. According to the latest international price comparison of the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, the average price of natural gas for retail consumers is already the cheapest in Hungary, so Hungarian consumers continue to pay the most favourable fees in Europe. The most important task of the new government was to prepare a budget that takes into account the effects of war and sanctions in Brussels, the high inflation caused by the energy crisis, the declining performance of the European economy and the uncertainties of the world economy. For this reason, the government has put together a budget that protects the results achieved and thus also reduces the costs, ensures the safety of Hungary, the families and the Hungarian people, and continues to keep the Hungarian economy on a safe growth path. Part of this package is the gas stop. Today Hungarian motorists can refuel for 480 HUF, while it is set in Hungarian forints abroad to mention only a few examples: 783 in Spain, 808 in Portugal, 825 in Iceland, 847 forints in Germany, 853, 877 in Sweden, 877, Greece, 873, Finland 914, 965 in Denmark, and more than 1000 forints in Norway. I believe that this is a huge achievement, and thanks to the government's policy, the indicators are true not only for gas oil but also for many other areas. That is why I would like to ask the Member of the opposition to support the Hungarian government's ideas on the reduction of the rent, so that they will also be supported in the 2023 budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-13-83	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, for your reply. I'll ask Congresswoman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2022-06-13-84	Thank you for your detailed answer, unfortunately we have heard relatively little about transport. We believe that, by the way, the climate lease would be more effective in serving the goals mentioned by you, both in terms of energy independence and in order to alleviate the burden on families. I would also like to refer to a very important event today, and energy efficiency projects have also been voted down today by fellow Members, even though they would have eased the burden on families. So I'm not accepting your answer right now. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-13-85	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Mr Miklós Simon, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Defence: - How does our military development program increase the security of our country? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2022-06-13-86	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, More than half of the 30 years behind us have been when a country bordering our country was involved in armed conflict and, unfortunately, one of our neighbours is currently at war. Hungary is an internationally extremely safe country, but it is often very close to us to a place of war fire, so we must pay particular attention to the preservation of peace and security. This is why I consider our military development programme, which has been ongoing for years, to be of paramount importance, to ensure that Hungary's self-defense capability is met by the 21st century. The challenges of the century, and that the Hungarian Defence Force should be a decisive force in our region. We have some place to develop the Hungarian army, because just a few years after joining NATO, left-wing governments implemented a demilitarisation programme comparable to the military provisions of the Trianon peace dictatorship as a reform of the army. There was no line obligation, a dysfunctional, voluntary reserve system was created. In 2010, we had a total of 17 volunteers. Our weapons and weapons of war have been handed over free of charge to armies in other countries, or have actually been carried out in junkyards; all of this, without any program to replace them, has been impossible to complete. Perhaps the left at that time came from the wrong assumption that NATO does not expect us to make our own efforts to protect ourselves. Until 2010, we were on a path that was completely wrong, led by politicians who are sitting here in Parliament today. Bringing in Hungary's previous lags is expected to reach 2 percent by 2024 so that defence spending reaches 2 percent of GDP. With all due respect, how do you see the security challenges facing Hungary? What answer can the ongoing military development programme give? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-13-87	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Tamás Vargha, State Secretary, responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2022-06-13-88	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, you quoted the years when the left-wing liberal government led this country well. We can recall that about three years after the NATO accession, Ferenc Juhász declared that there would be no war in the region, in Europe, and Hungary does not need defence, and therefore the Hungarian Defence Forces were destroyed in the first half of the cycle, and then the left-wing liberal government destroyed Hungary in its second cycle. So we started very deeply in 2010 to pull this country back from the brink of collapse, and indeed for years Hungary had only the strength to keep the defence budget at a level. For the record, this was a great achievement at the time, and we also won recognition in NATO. You said very well when you said that perhaps they were based on that assumption. Yes, they came from the assumption that NATO would protect Hungary on the basis of the principle of collective protection, but a NATO as an alliance can only be strong if its members are strong. [[15.50]] Therefore, the collective protection provided under NATO is only valid and effective if its members are strong. Therefore, our goals remain unchanged: we are committed to the modernisation of the Hungarian Defence Forces, which means that the Hungarian defence budget will reach 2 percent of GDP in 2023 and not in 2024. So we have come a long way since 2010 in the last 12 years, and after a long time, the Hungarian Defence Forces will acquire meaningful, applicable, effective and deployable capabilities, which will give Hungary a decisive force at regional level, which can be applied to the quality of the age. At the same time, the Hungarian defence industry will be reborn and recreated, as in this continuously deteriorating international security environment it is of paramount importance not only the ability to protect itself, but also its own defence industrial capacity, including the expansion of existing capacities and the creation of new capacities in the areas of vehicle production, ammunition production and small arms production. Cooperation with international partners and the creation of joint ventures are very important here. The development areas of the programme cover the whole of the Hungarian Defence Forces: the ground forces, the air force, the management-management capability, the development of logistics and support forces, and the development of voluntary and reserve capabilities are also part of this programme. By increasing the defence budget, therefore, the military development programmes will continue, they are also an essential condition for the international system of defence, and we will continue to strengthen Hungary, Hungary's peace and security. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-13-89	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2022-06-13-90	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Yes, I accept the answer, because the Fidesz-KDNP government has already started the development of force reform in the middle of the last decade, its design for the,, Zrínyi 2026, and, as the honourable Parliament could have seen and learned, new military technology has been acquired from tanks to helicopters to handguns. So Hungary wants to be a strong country in order to become a country with a dominant force in the region. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-13-91	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the response to the interpellation. Dear Parliament, Member Imre Vejkey, representative of KDNP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Technology and Industry: "The state of employment." Congressman Imre Vejkey has the floor.
u2022-06-13-92	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Since the outbreak of the war, the experts of economic processes have been discussing the consequences of the armed conflict between Russia and Ukraine in terms of its most important indicators, and here within the walls, in Parliament, the question has been raised several times as to what Hungarians can expect in terms of their everyday life, how it will come down. Changes in inflation, fuel prices and food prices have certainly been heard by citizens, but there is little mention of employment nowadays, although this area has been a neurological point of Hungarian politics for decades after the change of regime. For a long time, one of the most exhilarating questions for society was that Hungarians had a job, especially under the Gyurcsány government, when unemployment was almost unbearable, and because of wage differences, hundreds of thousands of people decided to try their luck abroad. However, since 2010, thanks to the Orbán government's effective economic and employment policy, nearly one million new jobs have been created, and the performance of the economy in many areas would allow employment to exceed the number of workers available. The appreciation of the workforce has also brought about a significant increase in wage levels. We have just stepped out of the shock caused by Covid, the war struck the world as a bolt of lightning, but thanks to the successful construction of the work-based economy in Hungary, excellent employment figures have not deteriorated significantly despite the pandemic and the war situation, and the last year before the pandemic, 2019 unemployment indicators have now been improved. Dear Secretary of State, The Hungarian employment situation seems to be favourable at present, with workers' prospects showing a stable improvement in both wages and job opportunities. At the same time, the end of the war is not yet foreseen, while the increase in raw materials prices and the senseless EU sanctions which further exacerbate the economic situation can bring about a slowdown in the economy, a reduction in production and services used, thereby affecting employment data as well. Madam State Secretary, please describe the main criteria of the current Hungarian employment situation. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-13-93	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Zsófia Koncz responds to the interpellation. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
u2022-06-13-94	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, From the outset, the government's aim has been to move from a welfare-based society to a work-based society, and we have set ourselves as high targets as the creation of a million jobs. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.) This has been achieved in practice, since 4.7 million people are working in Hungary today, which has been a record since the change of regime, and more people are working today than before the epidemic. (Dr. Lajos Szűcs in the notary seat) Replaced by Dr. Winner Vinnai.) The Hungarian people want to make a living from work, and therefore we should be very proud of these jointly achieved results. Unemployment was around 12 per cent in 2010, and has fallen to less than a third since then. It accounts for about half of the EU average, one of the most favourable in the European Union and Europe. This is 3.6 per cent, and the EU average is 6.2 per cent and 6.8 per cent in the euro area. Unemployment among young people declined in a similar proportion: from the previous abnormally high 30 percent to 10 percent, and in May this year fewer job seekers were recorded than ever in the last decade. Hungary has achieved the second fastest-paced employment expansion in the European Union after Malta in the last decade. The employment rate increased significantly from 56 per cent in 2010 to 74 per cent. It is also an indisputable result that wages continue to rise. The government's successful economic policy is that the increasing actions, together with the reduction of taxes on labour, will unbrokenly improve the financial scope of families and the quality of life of Hungarian people, since we have considered the support of families as a very important priority from the outset, and we have established a unique family support system. It is also extremely important, and it should also be mentioned that from 1 January 2022 the minimum wage increased to HUF 200,000, the guaranteed minimum wage increased to HUF 260 thousand, and in addition to wage increases, we supported working parents with a family tax refund. [[16.00]] It is also a very important achievement to ensure that people under the age of 25 are free, which, I think, can further improve the economic activity of young people, more and more of those who have worked abroad have returned to their homes and are on the domestic labour market. Among the priority objectives of the new government, it has named achieving full employment and protecting it, which will continue to be our absolute goal in the future. We are still working to ensure that as many Hungarians as possible can work and thrive in their homeland. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-06-13-95	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. I will ask Congressman Imre Vejkey to accept the Secretary of State's answer. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-06-13-96	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, I accept the honour of your reply, and on behalf of the Hungarian nation, thank you for the fifth Orbán government working to protect Hungarian families, protect pensions, protect jobs, protect the cost reduction, protect family support. In other words, the fifth Orbán government is working to prevent the harmful economic consequences of the war in order not for the Hungarian people and not for the Hungarian families to pay the price. Once again, thank you very much for your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-06-13-97	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform this House, as we have heard, that Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. With this, ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the interpellations. As you have already heard from the pre-notification notice, according to our agreed agenda, interpellation decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Now it's time for immediate questioning time. It's 16:00 and 2 minutes. Dear Parliament, MEPs Ágnes Vadai and Olga Kálmán, representatives of DK, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What do you think, Prime Minister? Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr Gergely Gulyás has given the Prime Minister the right to reply. I respectfully ask you, and that is how we are already in contact with Mrs Kálmán Olga, as it was the other day, to accept the person of the respondents, or to ask the Prime Minister for the answer personally. Here you go.
u2022-06-13-98	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to wait unchanged for the opportunity when there will be no BL finals or similar state affairs in which the Prime Minister must act. So I'd wait for the Prime Minister. I don't accept it. Thank you.
u2022-06-13-99	Thank you very much. But I'm not telling you now because of the shortness of time, all the things I said the last time. Mr. Prime Minister... [[It's an interrogation from the ruling parties.]] Congressman Nacsa, I will speak up when the time comes. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear House, Mr Gergely Arató and Mr László Varju, representatives of DK, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr Gergely Gulyás has given the Prime Minister the right to reply. I respectfully ask Mr László Varju, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or asks the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2022-06-13-100	Mr. President, thank you very much. We'll wait for the Prime Minister. Thank you.
u2022-06-13-101	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you and this House, Mr President, that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. And I would also like to address Congressman László Varju. Dear Parliament, MEP László Varju, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: what does the government do to solve the problem of wild animals that have appeared more often in the populated areas? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Due to the Minister's absence, Mr Sándor Farkas appointed Deputy Minister, State Secretary, to respond. I respectfully ask you, do you accept the person who is responding, or do you ask the Minister of Agriculture for an answer? [[For signal:]] Thank you very much for indicating to me that you accept the person you are responding to. Mr László Varju has the floor. Here you go.
u2022-06-13-102	Thank you very much. Yes, I am pleased to be able to address the issue of animal protection, and I would like to ask for the position of the Secretary of State in this. There was a general outrage the other day that a hunter slaughtered in broad daylight in front of the passersby the family of wild boar, including the striped pigs, in the green area near John's Hospital. The sight made a small child sick, and he was taken by an ambulance. For the time being, it is unclear to whom and by what instructions they did so, the license of this massacre. One thing's for sure: he's endangered people, too. So it's important that you investigate all of this. However, the problem is far more extensive. Recently, they met a wild boar family in the Richrét settlement, but there were several such cases in my Újpest constituency, but we can say rural towns, Miskolc, and on Lake Balaton, for example, this is a general question and case. There's a boar, a deer, and a bear now. The emergence of wild animals that pose a danger to humans in a populated area is becoming increasingly common. In such cases, there is no soothing procedure for treatment. If it is inevitable, of course, there can be a solution to this, there is an otherwise established rule, but in the mountain case, it seems that it has been repeatedly broken, and yet it is inhumane to destroy pious and harmless wild animals, including little pigs, in this way. In many cases, he didn't even wander into the inhabited area, but he moved into it and lived there. For example, the wild boar moved to the city specifically for the sake of greater safety, and some specimens also show or show genetic changes by seeking safety in the city. So I ask Mr Secretary of State what the government intends to do about the humane solution to the problem of wild animals that have wandered or moved into the inhabited area. Thank you. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-06-13-103	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, Deputy Minister Sándor Farkas, Minister of State, responds.
u2022-06-13-104	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, The problem outlined in its question, i.e. certain hunting species in settlements and in their narrow surroundings, as well as protected species, is becoming increasingly common, which may cause conflicts with the population living there. In the case of hunting species, this is due, on the one hand, to the growth of their stock, the decline in their natural habitat and their continuous and often irreversible transformation. On the other hand, some species, such as the aforementioned wild boar or red fox, have a very good adaptability, and these animals are appearing more and more frequently in and near populated areas, given that most of them are already accustomed to the environment of humans, to the proximity of humans. In addition, human activity plays a prominent role. For example, in many cases neglected properties, discarded waste also provides excellent living conditions and an easily accessible source of food for wildlife species. According to the rules in force, the residential area, the interior of the settlements, is not a hunting area, so hunting activities cannot be carried out there. In order to address this problem, it is also necessary to involve the local population and to develop effective cooperation with the local authorities concerned. Information material was also prepared for the notaries of municipal authorities, which provides advice on wild species appearing in populated areas and, where appropriate, causing harm. This is expected to be sent to the notaries within days. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-06-13-105	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. László Varju is entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go. [[16.10]]
u2022-06-13-106	Thank you very much. In my opinion, there is a need not only for advice but also for substantive amendment of the law. I understand Mr Secretary of State's initiative or position that good service advice will be given, but I think that is not enough. On the initiative of Újpest, we will exercise the right to apply from the local government's side, because it does affect not only one, but a number of municipalities. This aims to amend the hunting law and provide the possibility for animal welfare guard services organised in the settlements, which also solves professional capture, anesthesia and possibly the involvement of a veterinarian. A suitable solution must be found to save a healthy or injured game that has entered the interior. I would therefore like to ask Mr Secretary of State once again that the Government consider the proposal to amend the hunting law to this end. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-13-107	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr. Sándor Farkas has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2022-06-13-108	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, I have already mentioned this in the inhabited areas, and it is not the responsibility of hunting for the treatment and removal of hunting game species in the internal area. In all cases, the killing of animals in these areas requires a police authority authorisation. A more effective involvement of municipal authorities in addressing the problem is essential. Local authorities are currently actively involved in several locations in the country, in many settlements and in several metropolitan districts with a dedicated professional. And here comes the most important sentence for me: however, this activity is not a hunting activity, so this activity is not an agricultural activity. Thank you very much. [[László Varju: It is considered a shooting. It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-13-109	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Mr. Péter Jakab and Mr. Dániel Z. Kárpát, representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What do you think of this, Prime Minister? It's an address. [[Bence Rétvári: Where is James? Nacsa Lőrinc: Where is the leader of the faction? Bence Rétvári: Where is Peter James?]] Dear Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr Gergely Gulyás appointed a minister leading the Prime Minister's Office to respond. I respectfully ask you to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Prime Minister for the answer personally.
u2022-06-13-110	Mr President, With all due respect, I'd like to wait for Prime Minister. Thank you. [[Bence Rétvári: Are you going to be fraternity partners then? Lőrinc Nacsa: James will be gone!]]
u2022-06-13-111	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform you and this House that the Prime Minister will have to answer you at the hour of the second immediate question. Congressman Brenner Koloman, the representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister for Regional Development an immediate question:. What do you think of this, Minister? It's an address. Minister Csaba Latorcai, State Secretary, was entitled to reply because of his absence. I respectfully ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding or ask the Minister for his answer in person.
u2022-06-13-112	Mr President, I'd like to wait for Mr. Secretary with the answer. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-13-113	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you, with all due respect, that the Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Péter Balassa, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister for Economic Development an immediate question:. What do you think about this, Minister? It's an address. I would like to inform you, honourable Member, that you have given Mr. János Fónagy the right to reply because of the Minister's absence. I respectfully ask you, accept your response.
u2022-06-13-114	I accept, of course.
u2022-06-13-115	Thank you very much for indicating to me that you accept the person you are responding to. Congressman Péter Balassa has the floor. Here you go. (In the notary seat, Dezső the Believer Replaced by Sándor Szabó.)
u2022-06-13-116	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Of the countries of Europe, we paid most of the money as VAT, HUF 5397 billion in the previous year. This is thanks to the Hungarian government, the Hungarian government that introduced 27 percent VAT on 1 January 2012. Then they couldn't claim a pandemic or a war situation. But if we think about it further, the 10.7% inflation, which appeared in May, means that Hungarian families will have to pay around HUF 530-600 billion more into the Hungarian state register, which is good for the Hungarian government, but the Hungarian taxpayers, the people who pay this money as taxpayers, will have to save money to pay this VAT. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary has therefore proposed reducing the VAT on basic foods to zero per cent, which is not an immediate solution at the moment, but it would save families a saving and help them to save up to 200 forints per kilo of bread, more than one hundred forints, but also 27 per cent for fruits or vegetables. Therefore, the EPP Jobbik believes that, in view of high inflation, food prices should remain in people's pockets with a record VAT of 27%. That is why we trust that the government will also support it, which constantly proclaims that it is the most important thing for people's well-being. If you do not support taxation and tax exemption of basic foodstuffs with zero-percent VAT keys, it is clear that the government wants to pay the price of the economic crisis to the Hungarian families. In view of all of this, it is worth clarifying that the government is also aware of its position to refrain from Jobbik's proposal on zero-percent VAT. If so, why? Why does the European record make families pay the price of the crisis with 27 percent VAT? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] If there really is still VAT, how much money do Hungarian people make this year? Has it been calculated how much revenue does the government expect due to the two-digit inflation that has been released? Thank you.
u2022-06-13-117	Thank you very much, Congressman. With all due respect, I would ask that you continue to be more precise about the time frame. As I said, Parliamentary Secretary János Fónagy answers the immediate question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2022-06-13-118	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I suppose it is known to all of us that we are living in extraordinary times: there is a conflict of war on our border, we all know the economic consequences, inflation is high throughout the world, war has pushed energy prices to the sky, and this affects almost all products. In such a situation, the government should prefer the protection of families over the logic of the market. You are also known for your four stop policies: resistop, fuel stop, interest stop and food price stop. VAT on food, which is the essence of your question: Since 2010, more and more basic foods, currently classified in nine product groups, have been taxed with the most favourable VAT value of 5%. So the civil-Christian government is constantly protecting the population from rising prices. In 2014, the VAT of live and half-carcases, from 15 to the intermediate products of sheep, goats, lambs, cattle, from 16 to the VAT of pigmeat, from 17 to the VAT of fresh milk, poultry, eggs, from 18 to the fish for consumption, from 19 and 20 to the VAT of dairy products in particular was reduced to 5%. By the way, your party alliance didn't vote for any of them. We believe that our main task now is to keep these measures as long as Hungarian families are inexhaustibly in need of this in terms of their daily lives. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-13-119	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr Péter Balassa. Here you go.
u2022-06-13-120	Thank you for the floor, Mr State Secretary, and thank you for your exhaustive reply, I am only afraid that the Hungarian taxpayers' wallet will be exhausted. I am asking you to support the proposal of the Jobbik Hungary Movement, the reduction in zero-percent VAT in the VAT of basic foodstuffs, because I think that a national government should adopt and support a national proposal. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-06-13-121	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr János Fónagy is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder.
u2022-06-13-122	We thank you for any opposition proposals to improve relations. At the same time, I would like to take into account the fact that the government's measures reduce inflation by about 6 percentage points. Without a pricestop, inflation would be over 15%. [[16.20]] As far as food VAT zero is concerned, allow me to say, on the basis of my nearly 20 years of agricultural practice and experience, that trade swallows the margin of a zero VAT. So we are convinced that this system is in the best interests of Hungarian families today. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-06-13-123	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman András Fekete-Győr, Head of the Momentum Group, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Can the government enter the same river twice? It's an address. Dear Chief of Staff, Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, has given him the right to reply. I respectfully ask you, do you accept the person you are responding to, or personally...
u2022-06-13-124	No, thank you. Next week, thank you.
u2022-06-13-125	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the next immediate questions. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Dávid Bedő, representative of Momentum, wishes to ask the Minister for Regional Development an immediate question:. Where are the EU funds? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. Csaba Latorcai has given him the right to reply. I ask the honourable Member to accept the person who is responding. [[On the sign of David Bedő:]] Thank you so much for letting me know that you accepted. Congressman Dávid Bedő, please.
u2022-06-13-126	Thank you so much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I spoke just a week ago before the agenda, where I asked our government when they would finally bring home EU funds frozen a year ago to Hungary. Unfortunately, I was not given a meaningful and concrete answer at the time, so I am forced to ask the question again. From your panic-like constraints, which have been announced recently, I can see that we agree on one thing: Hungary's economy and the state budget are in great trouble. What we disagree on is a solution to a serious crisis. You are responding to the first signs of the crisis by raising taxes, austerity and brutally cutting back on public investment, even though the real solution would be to bring EU money home; this is what we have been maintaining economic growth for 12 years. What makes you think you're going to be able to steer without these resources one moment at a time? It seems that you have already resigned most of the EU's money. Although EU funds are expected in next year's budget, not as much as Hungary would expect, and the fate of the planned few EU funds is uncertain. However, the European Union does not ask for anything that is not in Hungary's well-conceived national interest. [[Bence Rétvári: Let's hear it! What do you want?]] They ask us to guarantee that we spend these money on Hungarian people and not on making friends with politicians rich. [[Bence Rétvári: Katalin Cseh? Should we rule it out?]] That's not such a terrifying request. Every country in the EU can keep up with us and perhaps not with the Poles. And a community always works that way, and we benefit from it if we follow its agreed rules. Mr. Secretary. I'm asking you a clear question, and I'm asking you to give me a clear answer. What are the EU's expectations that you believe are not worth bringing home EU money? What are the concrete steps you are taking to bring EU money home? Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of Momentum and MSZP.]]
u2022-06-13-127	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as we have heard, will be given by Secretary of State Csaba Latorcai. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-06-13-128	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, He began his current question by having to repeat what he said in the context of the speech before last week's agenda. Well, Mr President, I am obliged to repeat my answers, which I started then, and now that there is no obstacle to the conclusion of agreements on the fundamental parts of Hungary. The only reason why the signing of agreements and the arrival of resources in Hungary, the Hungarian people, cannot prevent them from coming to Hungary is because these funds are for Hungary and for the Hungarian people, and no matter how hard the bureaucrats of the European Union try to blackmail Hungary, we will not allow them! We will not allow Hungary to become an immigrant country; we will not allow them to embargo gas, thus throwing a hydrogen bomb on the Hungarian economy. And as much as I'd like some, we're still not gonna let the little boys in kindergarten have to wear pink tullies to kindergartens. [[Intruder from the benches of Momentum: Oh, my God!]] Because the Hungarian people, Mr. Congressman, took a position that they did not want economic immigrants to be deployed in Hungary, because the Hungarian people do not want families to pay ten times the price for gas, and the Hungarian people want to spare their children and grandchildren from gender madness. The government was authorised to represent them in April, and these issues will be largely enforced by the government. Honourable Congressman, You should represent the Hungarian people instead of lobbying against Hungary and the Hungarian people [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the EU's resources will surely arrive sooner. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-06-13-129	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder will be given to Congressman Dávid Bedő.
u2022-06-13-130	Thank you very much. I have to repeat it because there is no answer, and I will repeat it again next week, because we have not received a meaningful answer. You say that there is no obstacle, but what we see is that for a year they have been talking about fighting freedom with Brussels, while these funds are still frozen. He's listed a bunch of reasons none of which are true. At today's meeting of the European Union Committee, your Deputy State Secretary has said that one of the biggest obstacles is to change public procurement laws and to prevent them from doing so. [[Intruder from the benches of the governing parties:]] What they refuse to do with corruption. This is from your Deputy Secretary of State. [[Bence Rétvári interrupts.]] Let me give you a very simple metaphor, maybe you'll understand. Imagine you'd like to go to lunch in an office. They're gonna ask one of their colleagues to bring lunch, throw money together. This colleague of yours will come back with a bottle of whiskey and three packs of cigarettes. Well, then they won't be able to eat, I'm sure. And if your colleague repeats that 12 more times after that, I think that your colleague is entitled to be called upon afterwards, and they rightly ask that next time you spend that money on food and bring it. 'Cause that's what this is about. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] over the last 12 years, the funds have been constantly abused, and that is why we are not getting the money now. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of Momentum.]]
u2022-06-13-131	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-06-13-132	Thank you very much, Congressman. No need to be nervous, calm down. EU funds are in good hands. Just let me have some... [[Moore, clarity and interruptions from the benches of Momentum.]] It is very funny, but it is good to know that in 2019 we drew more than EUR 3.5 billion, EUR 4.5 billion in 2020 and EUR 4 billion from Hungary last year. And the fact that we have not yet signed our agreement with the European Commission is a fake problem. It is a false problem, Mr President, because we can write, write out, write out and write out calls without agreement, so in the next period Hungarian people can wait and wait for new European Union proposals to be put out by economic operators. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-06-13-133	Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. If a county hospital doesn't get enough resources, then what could be in lower health care? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, was entitled to reply because of his absence. I respectfully ask you, accept your response. [[On Dr. Gurmai Zita's mark:]] Thank you very much. Congresswoman indicates that she has accepted the person who is responding. Congresswoman Zita Gurmai... [[Dr. Gurmai Zita pointing to the clock: Let's start over, shall we? 'Cause he's already at 08...]] I'll be right with you, yes, Congresswoman Gurmai Zita. [[Dr. Gurmai Zita: Just in case, every minute counts!]] Thank you.
u2022-06-13-134	Thank you very much. Dear House, In the life and functioning of a country, health care should not be a primary priority at each level, from the highest level of hospitalisation to the smallest settlement's general medical/child care. Now children can only be given birth on certain days at the Szolnok hospital; on the other days, mothers are transported more than 100 kilometres away. Even though the pro-government mayor tried to blow the case, that's a fact. This is what local residents report, describing concrete examples. In fact, more and more news is coming from the Szolnok hospital that there is a problem with care in other departments, and this is a county hospital, the most important and prominent medical institution in the county. Then what problems may exist in smaller hospitals or small-town specialist care, general medical care? They're bad. By now, public access to healthcare has been reduced to an extent that calls for immediate intervention. [[16.30]] I am not saying this, it is not the opposition parties who say this, but Zsolt Kiss, Director General of the National Health Insurance Fund at the Congress of the Hungarian Hospital Association at the beginning of this month. So I repeat: it is not the opposition politicians or the Hungarian citizens who look down on you that say that there is a problem, but the leader of the professional organisation. And there really is a problem. Just one example: according to the data available on the website of the National Hospital Directorate-General, hundreds of thousands of Hungarians who do not have a permanent home doctor can be counted. But I could also list the facts, the stories of the Hungarian people, which show that there is a problem in Hungarian health care, that people do not have access to adequate healthcare. Fidesz had 12 years to repair health care. It didn't work. They just got another four years to prove themselves. What do you intend to do, Mr. Secretary?
u2022-06-13-135	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Secretary of State Bence Rétvári answers the question. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2022-06-13-136	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Well, I'm sure we wouldn't be following the recipe you're giving us. Imre László said that 45 percent of hospitals should be closed. I don't know which hospital in which county the left would shut down and which one wouldn't, but then Zoltán Komáromi said that there's only 45 percent, that there's more hospitals to shut down than 45 percent of hospitals. That's what you're arguing about. That means 45 percent hospital or more hospitals should be shut down. But we also heard from you that obstetrics doesn't need a doctor anyway, because childbirth is worth going to India without a doctor who can perform eye surgery. Similar ideas on health have been pouring out on the left in recent months. You might think that's funny, but it's not funny at all, because we're talking about people's health, and we only have one, and we have to keep it. In recent years, we have spent 500 billion forints on the development of rural health care, of which 91 rural hospitals have been partially or completely renovated, as well as 54 clinics and 107 rescue stations, we have been able to build 23 new clinics and 34 new rescue stations, and one of the largest hospital development in Budapest's history is under way for 700 billion forints. You asked what was in GP care, how we could ensure that it was continuous. You know, when you were in government, you spent 79 billion forints on the general practitioners. 79! Do you know how much we spend this year? 245. Do you know how much a GP's monthly salary was on average when you were in government in 10? 867,000 forints. Do you know how much now? 2 million 922,000 forints. This is the difference between left health expenses and the current government. This is what we have done in the last 12 years, and this is what we will do in the coming years, that we are really looking for extra resources for hospitals and general practitioners, and that is what we will do for doctors themselves. We do not want to introduce a visitation fee, like you did, and hospital daily allowances, to deter patients from going to a hospital or a general practitioner, but free health care and increased funding. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-13-137	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congresswoman Zita Gurmai is entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2022-06-13-138	I think it's been 12 years, so, of course, the numbers have changed and are constantly growing. Obviously, he was talking about them exactly. And that there are new hospitals, new institutions... We just don't have a doctor or a nurse. I think it would have been worth talking about, what form they can make up for. So I think that in any way that would be the primary thing to do. The other is that I do not think that this is a party policy issue, and, of course, it is again, again, the past twelve years, instead of talking about what other options it is planning for the next four years. So technically, as you said, I can confirm that this is a matter of human life. It is said that the Hungarian economy is in balance, said Parliamentary Secretary Tállai today, so there is an appropriate source in the budget. But if there's intent, expertise, and resources, then what do you want to wait for after 12 years, in the majority? Otherwise, if you do not have the appropriate expertise, MSZP and its experts are welcome.
u2022-06-13-139	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder also belongs to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2022-06-13-140	Thank you very much. At this last half sentence, I think that the socialists would like to help again in Hungarian health care, and I think that many people have had their stomachs sprained. You have been able to do two things in health care: privatize and make these two pay; HospInves and others. Remember, clinics and hospitals have been privatized. But there was also half a sentence that has reduced the number of doctors in the last 12 years. Let me get this straightened out, honourable Member. In 2010, the number of doctors with working and operating permits was 33 943 according to official public health records, whereas 38 920 is now. So, honourable Member, this number has not decreased, but has increased. [[László Sebian-Petrovski: You have included more! That's why!]] We're counting what we counted then, and we're counting what we didn't count then, and we're not counting it now. It's obviously very painful for you, but do you know why? Because you've laid off 6,000 medical workers, doctors and nurses, that's obviously reducing it. Your reform, which you wanted to bring back, although I think we should warn Hungary not to return, was that the doctors did not leave, but you fired the doctors and nurses, because the IMF asked you to. We're never gonna cash in on this recipe. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-13-141	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Congressman István Szabadi and Mr László Toroczkai Group leader, representatives of Mi Hazank, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: It's an address. Mr István Szabadi, I respectfully inform you that, due to the absence of the Prime Minister, Mr Gergely Gulyás has given his right to reply to the Prime Minister's Office. I respectfully ask you, you accept the person who is responding, or you ask the Prime Minister for the answer personally.
u2022-06-13-142	Mr President, I don't accept it. We wait for the Prime Minister's answer.
u2022-06-13-143	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Prime Minister will have to answer you at the hour of the second immediate question. I know you stayed standing because you're next. Congressman István Szabadi, representative of Mi Hazank, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: "Double standards in the public domain." Mr President, because of the Minister's absence, Mr András Tállai, Deputy Minister of State, has given him the right to reply. I respectfully ask you, accept your response. [[István Szabadi: Yes, I accept.]] Thank you very much. Congressman István Szabadi has the floor. Here you go.
u2022-06-13-144	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Deputy Minister, Mr Secretary of State, 31 May 2022 was an important deadline for companies leading to double bookkeeping, since according to Act C of 2000 on Accounting, their annual accounts for the year 2021 had to be deposited and published so far. This obligation can be fulfilled by sending the contractor's annual report electronically to the Company Information Service operated by the Ministry of Justice. But what are the deadlines for preparing and publishing the annual budget accounts of budgetary bodies, including ministries? Under the Government Decree of 4/2013 on the accounting of public finances, ministries had to upload the annual budget reports for 2021 to the electronic reporting system operated by the Hungarian Treasury until 28 February 2022. We have reviewed the public interest data published in the document library and the public datatar.hu page to see the availability of the budget reports on government administration in the previous government cycle. On the basis of the data published by 10 June 2022, we have found that very few ministries have complied with this, overall half of the ministries have not met at all and the others have partially fulfilled their obligation to publish their budget reports. I ask with respect why, compared to entrepreneurs, budgetary bodies do not have to publish the textual justification. What is the reason why the wallets do not comply with their obligation to publish, plan to tighten the obligation to publish and sanction omissions and replace them as soon as possible? Thank you. [[Applause for the representatives of our country.]]
u2022-06-13-145	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State András Tállai, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2022-06-13-146	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, thank you for addressing such a deep professional question to the Ministry. Obviously, from the title of your immediate question, it was not possible to figure out why you would be interested in why the ministries would not have to make the text appendices publicly available in February. [[16.40]] Obviously, as a result of your question, we will examine in the ministry from a professional point of view why the legislation is now so. But what is more interesting is that, if it is as you say, the ministries are obliged to publish by the end of February and have failed to do so. I think that your question must be clearly brought to the attention of the ministries, and we will also call upon them to comply with their obligations, if your claim is true. By the way, these deadlines are laid down in the legislation provided for by the Accounting Regulation. The State Court of Auditors has a significant role to play in checking and reporting on the management of ministries. I believe that the functioning of the ministries and the state budget is transparent and ensures responsible management. It is important that the budget report is also presented to the Parliament, which also includes the accounts of the ministries. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-13-147	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. István Szabadi is entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-13-148	Thank you very much, and thank you for perhaps looking into this and replacing these reports. But the Hungarian Movement has not only experienced shortcomings in the accounts of the Ministries, I would like to note this, but also in the legal obligations of the Hungarian Treasury responsible for the implementation of the budget. The question therefore arises seriously: the 2011 CXCV on public finances. According to the Act and its implementing regulation, the data on the implementation of the central budget of the Hungarian Treasury shall be published on its website on a monthly basis by the last day following the month concerned. According to this, the data of April 2022 should already be on the Treasury website, compared to this year's data on the implementation of the central budget is not published at all. After that, I conclude with the idea of how nearly 300,000 businesses can be expected to publish their accounts to the public if the ministries and the Hungarian Treasury do not comply with this obligation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-06-13-149	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Secretary of State is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2022-06-13-150	I can only thank the Member once again for his meticulous work on the audit of his representatives, and I can promise that we will examine whether the legislative requirements raised here have actually been met by the budgetary institutions and the ministries. I can promise this in particular in the case of the Hungarian Treasury, as it is under the supervision of the Ministry of Finance. And thank you again very much for your attentive professional contribution. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-13-151	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Tamás Mellár, representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question:. What is not going on here? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Due to Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. András Tállai, Deputy Minister of State, has given him the right to reply. I respectfully ask you to accept the identity of the responder.
u2022-06-13-152	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2022-06-13-153	Thank you very much. Congressman accepts the identity of the responder. Congressman Tamás Mellar has the floor. Here you go.
u2022-06-13-154	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to ask the Honourable Deputy Minister of Finance when the Government will commit itself to introducing an effective anti-inflationary stabilisation programme. Obviously, this is also painfully topical because the statistics in May show that inflation has now risen to 10.7 percent, core inflation has increased by 12.2 percent, food prices have increased by 18.7 percent, and the price of durable consumer goods has increased by 11.4 percent. The high value of core inflation shows that inflation will stay with us for a longer period of time, including in the longer term, which indicates not only a temporary effect but also a lasting effect. At the same time, it should also be stressed that current inflation is a suppressed inflation because there is much greater inflationary pressure in the system. He suppressed me because the government froze energy prices by reducing the cost of electricity, and with the use of the fuel price cap, he also held back the rise in prices. But these freezes have a huge cost burden, so it won't last long. If the government eliminates it, inflation may rise to more than 20 percent. I would like to ask you with respect when the government will introduce an effective anti-inflationary stabilisation package in order to get out of the inflation spiral, to get out of the price-wage, the price-retirement and the price-price spiral, because today we can see that these three spirals are increasingly and increasingly pushing inflation. And I think that we have very negative experience in history of living with high inflation. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Momentum.]]
u2022-06-13-155	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, Mr President, Mr András Tállai, Deputy Minister of State, responds to his immediate question. Here you go.
u2022-06-13-156	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The issue of inflation has already been discussed several times today, which is one of the most serious economic issues in today's situation. Indeed, a 10.7% increase was observed in May. This is historical because inflation has not been this high since May 2001. I'm not saying it as an excuse, but as a fact, it is the case in other countries. In fact, if we look at it carefully, Mr President, the situation in other countries is even more serious. You said in a bit of a bad way that the government suppressed inflation. I'd rather say it proudly and in a good way, thank God you saved people from the extra 5-6 percent inflationary expenditure. The fuel stop is not a coincidence in the eyes of the European Union; it is obviously because it is effective and good for Hungarian people. And I accept that a food price stop cannot be maintained for an unlimited period of time, but it is good for inflation and therefore also for prices in the most difficult time. As for the future of inflation: in the publication you have read, it is expected that the rate of increase will decrease from October, so this high inflation will not stay with us for long. Hopefully, by the end of the year, we can talk about declining inflation and turn to 2023 so that we can further reduce inflation. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-13-157	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Tamás Mellar. Here you go.
u2022-06-13-158	Thank you very much. Deputy Minister, this is not the case in all countries. In Western countries, energy prices and fuel prices have increased by 20, 30, or even 40 percent over the past period, thus achieving a total inflation rate of 10 per cent. This is a very painful process, this is undoubtedly the case, but I think that this is a necessary process, because there is a major transition in the world economy now, the energy platform is changing, the developed Western world is changing from fossil energy to renewable energies, and this obviously requires this high price rise. What you're saying actually reminds me of the '70s, because we played the same thing in the '70s when there was a big oil boom, and we said it didn't ring for us. And he didn't ring in for a while. But what was the result? A huge amount of debt and a very significant technical lag. So I think that we really should face this problem, because otherwise our debt and our fallout will be even more significant and even greater. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Momentum.]]
u2022-06-13-159	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go. [[16.50]]
u2022-06-13-160	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, In Estonia, inflation is 20 percent, in Lithuania, in the Czech Republic 13.2, in Latvia 16.4, in Poland it is also higher: 11.4, in the Netherlands 11.2, and in the Netherlands there are still a number of countries. Hungary is in the middle with this inflation figure. But what you said first is that we should not fall into the price-wage spiral: inflation is not created in Hungary, but is the result of war, international economic processes, the increase in raw material prices you have told us, the disruption of industrial production, this is missing, that is missing. So we're not causing that. But you're telling us not to go into the wage-price spiral in Hungarian: don't give a raise, let inflation go, real wages go down [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] And people get hurt. You're comparing this method to the '70s. You'd rather compare it to the '70s method, but we're not gonna let people go bad, and they're gonna pay the price of inflation, the war. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-13-161	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes and Péter Ungár, the representatives of the LMP, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. When will the government act? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr Gergely Gulyás has given the Prime Minister the right to reply. I respectfully ask you, accept the person who is responding, or ask the Prime Minister personally for an answer.
u2022-06-13-162	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We can't accept it and wait for the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-13-163	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, The Prime Minister will have to answer your question at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Member Lóránt Keresztes, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Technology and Industry an immediate question:. Who takes responsibility, Minister? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Because of the Minister's absence, he appointed Deputy Minister Zsófia Koncz, Secretary of State to respond. I respectfully ask you, accept your response.
u2022-06-13-164	I accept, thank you very much.
u2022-06-13-165	Thank you very much, you'll accept. Thus, it is for Congressman László Keresztes to speak. Here you go.
u2022-06-13-166	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, For about a month now, I've been trying to draw the government's attention to the terrible pollution and the disaster that's happening to the Sajó River. But apparently, either there's no intention in the government, or the government has no ability to protect Sajó or protect our rivers. For months this extremely toxic mining water has been pouring into the river, and today the toxic substances have reached the Hungarian river section, while we are also receiving shocking information about pollution affecting the Transylvanian tributaries of Tisza. The irresponsibleness of the Slovak Government cannot be sufficiently emphasised, and nothing has been done to this day to reduce the introduction of pollutants. According to our latest information, all they could do was set up a barrier to the area where this contamination would take place and prevent security guards from even going there and controlling the work. On the other hand, the Hungarian government only came to the point that a video conference was held with the Slovak Minister for the Environment, but they did not get any further in the action. Who is responsible, Minister, for such serious contradictions that the government spokeswoman from Sajópypöki's area last week reported that everything was all right, while it was found on the very day that an independent investigation found that the concentration of highly carcinogenic arsenic was already above the limit on the Hungarian river section? So who is responsible for the government's lack of information and the government being involved in such serious contradictions? Who is responsible for not being able to do anything in the last three months in order to finally get the Slovak party to act? What has the government done in three and a half months to prevent the shocking pollution affecting Sajó? Recently, a research revealed that similar hazardous pollutants enter the Transylvanian tributaries of the Tisza, which was commissioned by the Hungarian Institute of Ecological Research and national water monitoring. The preliminary research results were quite amazing, as we were informed that the research had been stopped and these professionals were fired. Why did they stop the research that reveals the serious pollution of the Transylvanian rivers? Thank you very much for your answers in advance.
u2022-06-13-167	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, the answer will be given by Deputy Minister Zsófia Koncz, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2022-06-13-168	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Firstly, I would like to confirm that environmental protection and climate protection are very important to the Hungarian government, and that, among the first ones, we set the objective of becoming a climate neutral country by 2050. With the climate and nature conservation action plan, we have set out a number of important objectives, such as cleaning our rivers and lakes. Regarding the specific case you asked about, I would like to inform you that, after the sampling on 7 June 2022, good news has come about Sajó's water: the results of accredited laboratory tests also show that all important parameters in the river water are within the limit and that metal pollution, as has been done so far, is not close to the limit of contamination. In March 2022, Hungary asked for official information on the results of the Slovak side measurements, the measures taken and the possibility of further dilution from reservoirs in relation to the water pollution caused by Sajó, within the framework of the Committee on Water Management of the Slovak Republic's Border Waters in relation to Hungary. The protection of our environment is very important for us, we work closely with the Slovak co-governments and the Slovak Ministry of the Environment in order for the Slovak Government to eliminate pollution. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-13-169	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Congressman László Lóránt Keresztes has a one-minute rejoinder, please.
u2022-06-13-170	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Secretary! The Hungarian government felt the urge to act, feel responsible for the ecological disaster in the Highlands? Do you feel responsible for taking effective action for our common natural resources? Do you see the ecological disaster that caused the Sajó River to die on a ten-mile stretch? How do they explain the serious contradiction that independent studies that have been made public show levels of arsenic above limit values? On the other hand, you were talking about values within the limit. What information do you have? In what way is the cooperation mentioned? In particular, what assistance did the Hungarian Government offer the Slovak Government specifically? How do you explain that the pollution that lasted for several months, now three and a half months, has failed to achieve anything in order to reduce the amount of the extremely dangerous toxic substance entering Sajó? What will the government do in the next period? Thank you very much.
u2022-06-13-171	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder also belongs to Secretary Zsófia Koncz, please.
u2022-06-13-172	As I have said, honourable Member, it is of the utmost importance for us to protect the water and wildlife of our domestic rivers and lakes. In order to avoid a similar situation, we are working with the Slovak party to find a solution to the cleansing of Sajó, and we are interested in ensuring that the damage relief work is carried out as soon as possible, and we have offered the assistance of Hungarian professionals from the beginning to the Slovak party. Secretary of State Anikó Raisz agreed on this issue on 2 June, and Slovak colleagues informed me that in approximately two weeks they would complete the elimination work in the mines that contaminated Sajó. [[Dr. László Keresztes Lóránt: Failed.]] , and we also offered the help of Hungarian professionals. I would also like to point out that, at the time of the measurements, both dissolved arsenic and all arsenic have been determined from the water samples. In the test results, neither dissolved nor total arsenic concentrations exceeded or were typically below the limit of detection. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-13-173	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Boglárka Illés, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:. Did the instrument used in the Left campaign violate the right of Hungarian voters to their personal data? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Due to the Minister's absence, Mr Répássy has appointed Minister of State to respond. I respectfully ask you, accept your response.
u2022-06-13-174	Yes, thank you.
u2022-06-13-175	Thank you very much. Illés Boglárka, Member of Parliament, has the floor. [[17.00]]
u2022-06-13-176	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Let's face it. Some of our lives have moved to online space, or at least our natural and virtual environment shares us, our attention, our thoughts, our choices, our values. At the same time, let us remember the earlier German Chancellor's statement that the data is the new oil. It is clear to the contrary that the protection of our data is both invaluable and invaluable not only from the point of view of our personal freedom and security, but also from the point of view of our quantifiable values. It's not an exaggeration to say that the value of our data has turned to light speed. We keep our valuables with doors, passwords, locks, alarms. And anyone who breaks into our home, steals our car or our wallets, commits a crime. Be clear, that's how it is with our data. That is why we cannot ignore the fact that the left has succeeded in achieving a level beyond indiscretion, insults, and consequencelessness in an area where the rest of their credibility has also been played out. With a text scandal affecting about a tenth of the country's population, the biggest electoral fraud since the change of regime has been achieved, and this cannot remain unsolved. Although the elections were two months ago, there was a long shadow of old crime, especially if it goes back not two months, but back to Gyurcsány's madness, since the pre-election text-cunamite was ordered by the Data Group founded and controlled by Ferenc Gyurcsány, Minister of the Bajnai Gordon and Secret Service, Ádám Ficsor. [[László Sebian-Petrovski: You're lying! You're lying again!]] Just like they provided the database. The question is how. How could they have information about the citizens with whom they had previously been unable to contact and whose data they had access to? [[The president's ringing the bell.]] They could only have access to it with consent, which they not only didn't get, but they didn't ask for. On the basis of what has been said, I ask that the tool used in the campaign of the left led by Gyurcsány has violated the rights of Hungarian voters to their personal data. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-13-177	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Répássy Róbert. Here you go, Secretary of State, Deputy Minister.
u2022-06-13-178	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and What we know so far is that the National Emergency Police Bureau of Investigation has ordered an investigation into personal data abuse in the case you mentioned. A suspected illegally acquired database suggests that millions of messages were sent and phone calls were made during the election campaign. In addition to the National Bureau of Investigation, the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information investigates. I would like to remind you that the offence of misuse of personal data in criminal law is essentially an act where personal data is handled contrary to data protection legislation and does so for profit purposes or by causing significant harm to interests. However, I would like to draw attention to the barrage of the Criminal Code 219. The first provision of Section 1 which provides that a person who, in breach of the provisions laid down by law on the protection or processing of personal data or by a binding act of the European Union, or who, by causing serious harm to his interests, treats personal data unduly or, contrary to the purpose, fails to act on the security of the data, shall be punishable by imprisonment for a period of one year due to a misdemeanor. A person who fails to comply with the obligations to inform the data subject in order to exercise his right to access, in breach of the provisions on the protection or management of personal data, is also subject to criminal penalties, and is in significant harm to the interests of other or others. The sentence shall be a term of imprisonment of up to two years if the personal data is misused for special data or criminal personal data, and the sentence shall be a term of imprisonment of up to three years if the personal data are processed. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] abuse is committed as an official or using a public mandate. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-13-179	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder is due to Mrs Elias Boglarka. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2022-06-13-180	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary. The legislation is clear, and the law is serious, and it is even more serious that the left has signed up to run the country in this way. This is a desperate attempt by a cooperation whose members do not respect not only each other, but also Hungarian people. However, the results of the elections, I believe, speak for themselves, and the confidence and attacking rhetoric of the left has clearly been replaced in this area by silence on this issue. I trust that the matter will be investigated as soon as possible and that we can put an end to it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-13-181	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr Répássy Róbert is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2022-06-13-182	Thank you for the floor. I agree with the points raised by the Congresswoman. Hungary is a democratic rule of law, the law applies to everyone, and if there is any suspicion of a crime, the authority must decide on the investigation. In the event of detection or detection of a criminal offence, the police, acting under their general investigative powers, shall, in any event, initiate, carry out, in accordance with the law, and carry out all legal proceedings. It's in everyone's best interest to find out what happened in this case. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-13-183	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Technology and Industry an immediate question: It's an address. Mr President, because of the Minister's absence, Deputy Minister Zsófia Koncz has appointed a Secretary of State for his reply. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much for accepting the response. Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc has the floor. Here you go.
u2022-06-13-184	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, It is clear to all of us that the Russian-Ukrainian war will result in a global economic situation that is a stressful state for everyone, for the whole world, for Europe and for Hungary in it. António Guterres, Secretary-General of the United Nations, said that the war will also have a systemic impact on food security, energy and finance and threaten unprecedented hunger and poverty, with another global economic crisis under way. The prolonged war and the energy crisis can therefore lead to this global economic crisis, so in this critical international situation the Hungarian government has a clear task: the peace and security of the Hungarian people must be guaranteed and the country's energy security and the results of the Hungarian families should be preserved. This is why the government has created the Trust and Defence Funds, which have to pay special taxes for those sectors that have gained extra profit over the past few years. The purpose of the funds is to continue to protect the Hungarian population from drastically rising energy prices and to continue the development of the country's security in recent years. However, it is regrettable that, although we are doing everything we can, the left is constantly attacking the reduction of the rent, constantly attacking the extra-profit special tax. In the past, they described the reduction as being stupid, it didn't happen, and Ferenc Gyurcsány was worried about the profits of the multinationals; it was in vain, because under their government, energy prices were raised 15 times before 2010, the Hungarian people paid Europe's most expensive rent under the Gyurcsány government, because they gave away the suppliers abroad and guaranteed them the profits. I think that the current behaviour of the left is unprecedented and shameful, that it would eliminate the reduction of the rent, so I ask with respect, Madam Secretary, how we can protect the Hungarian people's overhead costs. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-13-185	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Zsófia Koncz, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2022-06-13-186	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for bringing up such an important topic, and we fully agree that we need to protect the institution for reducing the costs. It cannot be emphasized enough that the reduction of the rent introduced since 2013 and its protection is a priority in the decisions of the Hungarian government, thus the Hungarian families saved more than HUF 2000 billion from the introduction of the measure until 2021, while the gas price stop introduced last year pays the lowest fuel price in Europe and saves an average of HUF 12,000 by fuelling. It should be pointed out in any way that if the left were to steer, the price of electricity would increase more than three times and the price of natural gas would increase by five and a half times, this would mean a total of four and a half-fold increase in the Hungarian average family, which would result in an increase of HUF 22,000 per month to HUF 101,000, which would cost an average Hungarian family more than HUF 948 thousand per month. [[17.10]] It should also be pointed out that energy prices within Europe have been very loose. At gas prices, people pay 15 times the Hungarian retail prices in Amsterdam, while in Vienna they pay 12 times, in Stockholm and London 11 times, and in Berlin almost ten times. On this basis, it is quite clear that if gas taps were cut off, gas prices would rise drastically and the economy would stop completely. The very good news is that in the future we will not only be able to ensure a reduction in the costs for the population, but also for 100,000 small and micro enterprises. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-13-187	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. Here you go.
u2022-06-13-188	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Due to the war and the misguided Brussels sanctions policy, energy prices have skyrocketed, but at the same time we can see that the left remains in favour of abolishing the reduction of the rent in such a difficult situation. We can remember what the joint candidate for Prime Minister of the Left said in the campaign, that the reduction of the rent was stupid, he said that there was no way to cut costs and that world market prices could not be stopped at the border. Klára Dobrev claimed that there was no reduction in the rent. Every Hungarian family can see in their accounts how much they can save every month, and the exact data shows the runaway prices around the world. I think that we should not follow the routes of MSZP and DK, when we are heating less, we are eating less, but we need to maintain exactly the policy of reducing costs. We therefore support the Hungarian Government in everything. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-13-189	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder also belongs to Secretary of State Zsófia Koncz. Here you go.
u2022-06-13-190	Honourable Congressman, The government has made it clear that, despite the conditions of war and the sanctions policy in Brussels, we will ensure that Hungarian families will be able to reduce their costs, the results of this, and we will not withdraw from this. Hungary has, by the way, taken an economic turn since 2010, set the economy on a growth path, and we have preserved this despite the epidemic. Of course, we have done everything we can to preserve jobs and continue this economic growth. The government is working to protect the country's security, the Hungarian families, pensions, jobs, the reduction of the rent, family support and ensure the security of our country. It is also a measure related to the reduction of overhead costs that Hungary will free up some of its strategic petrol and diesel reserves in order to ensure domestic fuel supply. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-13-191	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear House, It's 5:12 p.m., and the immediate questioning hour is over. Now we're gonna ask the questions. Ladies and gentlemen, MEP László Kordás, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of Technology and Industry:. When does the Orbán government discuss the minimum wage in Europe? It's an address. Mr László Kordás has the floor. Here you go.
u2022-06-13-192	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The European Union will introduce the European minimum wage, and this is the success of the Democratic Coalition and personally of Klára Dobrev. [[Bence Rétvári: Oh!]] Klára Dobrev promised in his campaign to the European Parliament that he would fight to increase the Hungarian minimum wage with European help. We're proud of this success. What is this proposal about? The EU's minimum wage proposal is about establishing a common methodology for negotiating the basis for negotiations with the social partners in the Member States. Therefore, Brussels does not set the minimum wage level in the Member States, but remains the Member State's competence, but the minimum level from which the negotiation starts requires it. It also makes a recommendation in 50 percent of average earnings and 60 percent of median earnings. Another important element of the EU proposal is the need to increase the coverage of collective agreements in the Member States. He's setting an ambitious target because he'd target 80 percent coverage. This is today about 20-22 percent in Hungary. To do so, it requires all Member States to draw up an action plan, which they agree with the social partners, to try to achieve the level of 80%. However, the current practice and practice of the Orbán government are completely in conflict with this endeavour, since, for example, the last time the Hungarian government explicitly prohibits collective agreements in the law on health status. The European Union, the Democratic Coalition and Klára Dobrev guarantee that wages will increase in Hungary with the EU's minimum wage proposal. The Orbán government didn't do much. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] As a result of inflation, we have run out of previous increases and therefore need a bigger increase than the previous narrow-handed ones. So I ask you when the government will increase the minimum domestic wage to the minimum wage rate according to the methodology set out in the EU's minimum wage proposal. When does the government negotiate this with companies and employees' organisations? [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-06-13-193	Thank you very much. I, too, respectfully invite Mr President, to try to manage the timeframe more closely at another time. The answer will be heard from Deputy Minister Zsófia Koncz, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2022-06-13-194	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Let me begin by saying that the issue of raising the minimum wage is clearly part of Fidesz's policy. When the first Orbán government started operating, in 1998 the minimum wage was HUF 19,500, after which it increased to HUF 50,000 in 2002. Under left-wing governance, the minimum wage rose by only HUF 23 500 in Hungary, and this rose to HUF 200,000 from 1 January 2022. This is more than double the level of 73 500 HUF in 2010, i.e. 172 percent higher. This includes the increase in the guaranteed minimum wage and increased to HUF 260 thousand, making it nearly three times the equivalent of HUF 89 500 in 2010. Based on data from the Statistical Office of the European Union, the growth of the domestic wage level in national currency has been the fourth largest among EU countries over the last 11 years, and we are the first in comparison between the Visegrad countries. Data show that the dynamic rise in the domestic wage level continues again this year. The increase in minimum wages could greatly increase salaries in higher pay categories in Hungary, which could further help us catch up with the Western countries. Real wages, which have been steadily rising for more than eight years, show that it is increasingly worth working in our country. That is what we believe, and in this we ask for the support of the Member. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-13-195	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Congressman Ferenc Varga, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of the Interior a question, "What title did Lungo Drom receive from the Ministry? It's an address. It is for Congressman Ferenc Varga. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-13-196	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The ally of Fidesz, the Roma organization Lungo Drom connected to Flórian Farkas in the summer of 2012 Budapest VIII. The 910 sq m property, located at 17 Bezerédi utca, was granted free and free of charge, and Parliament's decision on this was made by Fidesz. In December 2012, the Hungarian State imposed a 15-year disposal ban on the property, and in July 2013 a 60 million HUF mortgage was placed on the property register of the property, which was registered by the Ministry of Human Resources. These 60 million forints were supposed to be repaid. If it's not repaid, it'll have to be accounted for, because an almost a thousand square meters of real estate is at stake because of a registered mortgage. Lungo Drom did not repay this aid, nor did it account for it, since if that had happened, the mortgage right would have been cancelled. Therefore, I ask the honourable Deputy Minister: on what ground did the Ministry give this support to Lungo Drom? What has been achieved from this amount? Why hasn't it been accounted for since then? If there was an abuse, what action would you like to take? Mr Vice Minister, could it be possible that this is a case such as the "bridge to the world of work" programme? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[17.20]]
u2022-06-13-197	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be heard from Deputy Secretary Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2022-06-13-198	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Obviously, on the one hand, you should be interested in any public money, honourable Member. Let's add that Jobbik is not the champion of transparent farming either, because Jobbik has accepted more than HUF 330 million of prohibited funding, and according to the State Audit Office of Hungary, the report on the party's management was neither reliable nor real in the 17-18's, and could not account for it and make it transparent in 2018 with HUF 161 million of donations. So that's what Jobbik asks about. But to give you some information about the situation in your question, in the district of Bezerédi Street, property number 17, which you mentioned. The purpose of this property, and it was owned by Lungo Drom at the end of 2012 so that the Education and Training Centre Foundation could operate there, so that this building could be renovated and thus put in a useful state, and that social inclusion programmes could be implemented in this way. It is not a rare element of the grant agreement to secure a mortgage contract. The granting of the aid indicated a ten-year mortgage right, so there is no special circumstance in this case to which you might have referred. The aim was therefore to achieve as many catching-up programmes as possible with the participation of Gypsy organisations, and thus to help ensure that all people, regardless of their origin, have the right qualifications and the right jobs. This center itself, as his name says, is an education and training centre, providing training and training for those who came there that they could then find a place to live and make their own living. I think this is a goal for which it is worth implementing as many good projects as possible in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-13-199	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Mr Lajos Löcsei, representative of the Momentum, wishes to ask the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights:. What does the Ombudsman intend to do in order to return to his status? It's an address. It is for Congressman Louis Löcsei to take the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-13-200	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, The Ombudsman and the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights in Hungary's legal system are treasures, which we should be very careful about. The ombudsman's institution before 2010 was indeed a well-functioning body with growing social recognition, the first of which was the amendment of the Fundamental Law transforming the Ombudsman's institution, my fellow members of the government. In 2011, the Commissioner for Minority Rights still in office, Ernő Kállai, drew attention to the fact that the withdrawal of the separate Commissioners' powers would result in a reduction in the effectiveness of the protection of rights. Unfortunately, Ernő Kállai's fears have been confirmed. On an international level, it has been proven that Dr. Ákos Kozma, Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, is not doing his job well, so the only ombudsman of the current Hungarian constitutional system has been replaced by the World Federation of National Human Rights Institutions, from category A to category B. Dear Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, You did not have the so-called lex Gyöngyöspata law reviewed its compliance with the Fundamental Law with the Constitutional Court. He didn't raise his voice when the honking protestors at Clark Adam Square were being bullied by the police. He did not think that clarity should be taken into account in the text of the Anti-Pedophile Act hijacked more homophobic. He did not speak when the president of a party representing himself in Parliament compared Hungary's largest minority to a biological weapon. At the same time, he found it right when teachers were deprived of their fundamental rights to strike. So I ask the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights: what do you intend to do to bring back the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights in Hungary to the Ombudsmans of. What do you intend to do to ensure that the institution that you run is not merely a set to maintain the appearance of the rule of law, but to operate in accordance with the provisions of the Fundamental Law and international requirements? Thank you very much for your reply in advance. [[A round of applause from Momentum.]]
u2022-06-13-201	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Ákos Kozma, Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. Here you go, officer. You have the floor.
u2022-06-13-202	Mr President, [[His mic's not working.]]
u2022-06-13-203	Wait a minute, I'm probably gonna need a hand mike. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-06-13-204	[[For portable microphones:]] Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, In particular, let me inform you that in 2011 the Parliamentary Commissioner for Civil Rights, which was still in a separate system of Commissioners, submitted an application for accreditation as a national human rights institution, but at that time the subcommittee considered that the institution which protected fundamental rights did not have adequate, wide-ranging rights, but did not have the same status as Hungary. The accreditation of the institutions shall be subject to review every five years. In the case of our Office, this began in 2019 for the period 2015-19. The procedure was postponed for a period of one year in response to objections and another year in view of the coronal virus epidemic. The final decision was made in May of this year. The criticisms against the institution concern a significant part of September 2019, i.e. the period before my entry into office. Since my entry into office in September 2019, I have been working to get to know people's problems directly and with my colleagues. To this end, my national visit series was a significant opportunity to gain experience, which I intend to continue in the future. During the operation of my office, the opening of our six regional offices in six rural cities in Hungary was a milestone in 2022. Special attention will be paid to the management of the Ukrainian refugee wave. Since the outbreak of the war that has been going on for 4 months, our colleagues have been continuously working on the Hungarian-Ukrainian border section, and more and more positive feedback has been received at international level in recent years as well. In 2021, the GANHRI has completed the accreditation of 128 national human rights institutions, including the award of the award of the award of the award of the award of the award of the award of an A, B, and C. As an example, the Slovak, Swedish and Belgian national human rights institutions have a B status, while the A-category Afghanistan, Russia and Iraq have a B status. Finally, allow me, Mr President, to say one more sentence. While independence is the main requirement for national human rights institutions, the seven-fold reaccreditation decision was that the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, not on the basis of the guidance of the Accreditation Committee, but on the sole basis of the professional knowledge of himself and of his staff, wished to decide that he considered that there was a fundamental rights breach which he would have to investigate. The independence declared by the Paris principles therefore runs counter to the fact that the Reaccreditation Sub-Committee questions the professional competence of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights by [[First of Novak: We're at three minutes! Louis of Levočei: Let him finish!]] To define the fundamental rights he expects, he tries to influence his activities in this direction. [[The First of Novak: There is a limit to everything! Stop it!]] and does not recognise any other approach to the protection of human rights. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2022-06-13-205	Thank you very much. With all due respect, you should also be aware that this is a two-minute genre, so as I demand the ladies and gentlemen of Congress to strive to keep the time frame in this category that is prescribed, so must the responders. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman Imre Komjáthi, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question: what kind of food products and what amount of safety reserves are available? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Secretary of State will answer you, Sándor Farkas. Congressman Imre Komjathi has the floor.
u2022-06-13-206	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, From January 2016, the Fidesz government started to gradually eliminate the strategic state stockpiling of agricultural and food products. In the past, maintenance was intended to ensure that the supply needs of the population and the supply needs of important public bodies could be met in the event of serious market disturbances. At that time, however, the government considered that there could no longer be any market disturbance in which the missing products could not be obtained from anywhere. Therefore, the Ministry of Agriculture, which exercises ownership rights, has liquidated TIG Nonprofit Kft., which has carried out strategic stockpiling until then. [[17 .30]] However, some newspaper articles and market experts linked the company's liquidation to the brokerage scandal at the beginning of 2015, in which TIG lost hundreds of millions of forints. The liquidation can still take place today, but the supplies ran out very quickly. However, the situation has changed significantly in recent years, for thousands of years there has been food conservation on the part of individual states, which has also had a history and tradition in our country. In addition, on 24 February this year a war broke out in Ukraine, a neighboring country. I therefore ask the Secretary of State what food products and what amount of security is available in order to overcome any supply disruptions. Are you planning to restore strategic state stockpiling of agricultural and food products to ensure the safe supply of food to the public? I look forward to your reply. [[A rare applause from the ranks of MSZP and DK.]]
u2022-06-13-207	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be heard from Deputy State Secretary Sándor Farkas. Here you go.
u2022-06-13-208	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, During the period of the coronal virus epidemic, it has been proven that there is sufficient food available in Hungary at all times, even in the event of damage to international logistics chains, and that the supply of the population is ensured by our own food production, and that the single EU market also offers opportunities. Over the past few years, it has been demonstrated that despite the large purchases brought forward, there has been no shortage of goods or logistical problems, which were eliminated within a few days by logistics companies or trading networks. The quantity of goods produced will continue to fully cover the supply of the population, and the special preparedness of plants that are vital for the national economy will ensure that they remain operational even under extreme conditions. I would like to note that last year, as well as our food and manufacturing development programmes this year, all serve the purpose of ensuring that there is a safe and adequate quantity and quality of food in Hungary. You referred to the war here first, this did not affect the Hungarian food market either, food reserves are available, the government is constantly making decisions to guarantee security of supply, whether it is energy, fuel or food. In the case of food, one thing was needed so far, and this is to control our cereal exports, so that there is no chance that the domestic supply of feed or the safety of the supply of cereal-based food could be compromised. The obligation to notify export items is effective, and we see that we can intervene in market processes at any time if necessary. The Government of Hungary provides domestic food supply to its citizens under all circumstances. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-06-13-209	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Member Dávid Dócs, representative of Mi Hazank, wants to ask the Minister of Technology and Industry:. Who will pay for the burdens created by the reduction of public authorities? It's an address. I would like to inform you, honourable Member, that Deputy Minister Zsófia Koncz will answer you. Congressman Dócs has the floor. Here you go.
u2022-06-13-210	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Deputy Minister, Secretary of State, In recent years, Covid's closures have not only burdened the economy, but also consumed people's reserves. This is also true of the municipalities, which have been subject to several austerity measures, as well as a large part of the local government's own revenue being distracted by the State, causing serious malfunctions for the municipalities without financial reserves, since all these measures were introduced by the government after an approved budget, moreover, by reducing the revenue side by withholding own taxes, while placing defence costs on the municipalities, thereby increasing the expenditure side. I do not fully understand what makes a family-friendly measure that is indirectly paid by local communities. Instead of transferring the burden of cutting back on troubled municipalities, I would rather recommend our earlier proposal, which we called an epidemic solidarity tax, and requiring the multinationals to take over the greater share of public burdens during Covid's time. Local authorities should not be further affected, but should be revised in the light of the new challenges, the amount of the normative, the use of the tied normative and the freer transferability of strapped money. Let the government not strike the horse who pulls, but let us take those who have not yet taken their share of the burden on their shoulders. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-06-13-211	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Deputy Minister Zsófia Koncz, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2022-06-13-212	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to remind you that this government implemented the consolidation of governments that had gone bankrupt after 2010, and before 2010, left-wing governments handed over 3500 powers to municipalities without providing funds, thereby indebting them. The national government, on the other hand, carried out historical debt consolidation, taking over the debt of 2078 municipalities for some HUF 1,400 billion. This saved Hungarian villages and cities from a hopeless and untenable situation. As you know, the reduction was originally meant for families, the government decided to allow local authorities and small and medium-sized enterprises to join it because of the Crown Virus crisis. As has already been said today, according to the government's decision, some 100,000 small entrepreneurs will continue to participate in the reduction of their costs. In recent years, municipalities have had unprecedented opportunities in Hungary, while in 2010 they were able to farm from HUF 443 billion and already had HUF 865 billion in 2021. The programme supports 270 projects with a total development budget of more than HUF 4000 billion, and the three-year total budget of the Hungarian village programme exceeds HUF 1000 billion. I also think it is important to point out that energy modernisation has taken place in many municipal buildings over the past period, where we are thinking of switching windows, insulation, installation of solar panels, which clearly helps energy efficiency and can be more economical. It is also important to point out that local government subsidies are also increasing, for example, SMEs will cease to benefit from business tax from 2023, which will generate HUF 100 billion in additional revenue for municipalities. National governments have always helped municipalities and their people through them. Please support the government in this, too. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-06-13-213	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congressman Máté Kanász-Nagy, representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Prime Minister a question: When will Viktor Orbán fulfill his promise? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, By answering this question, the Prime Minister appointed Mr Mihály Varga, Minister of Finance, who is competent according to the subject, to answer the question, at the request of the Minister, Mr András Tállai, Deputy Minister of State, to answer the question. Congressman Máté Kanász-Nagy, please.
u2022-06-13-214	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, On 20 February 2022 Prime Minister Viktor Orbán promised a tax reduction on the opening of the Industry Chamber for children with no average wage because he said that they would pay more taxes than for other social groups and that this needs to be changed. Let's just remember what Prime Minister said literally. There is a group, this childless group with an average wage that has a higher tax wedge than the EU average. After that, he announced that the government would lay down the framework for this future discount in the new agreement with the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. We fully agree with Prime Minister Viktor Orbán that Hungary's people who receive an average salary without children are indeed unfairly taxed more than everyone else. The situation is particularly difficult for deeply underpaid civil servants, educators, social workers and others, since today the state is the worst employer in Hungary, although it could be the best. [[17.40]] It has been almost four months since Viktor Orbán's promise, and we, sitting on needles, are very excited to see when they will make their move, but nothing has happened so far, even though the situation of this social group has become much worse in these four months, as inflation around 10 percent is also seriously affecting them. We are also aware that Prime Minister is never false and that he will obviously keep his promise, so we would like to ask when we can expect the government to announce when, when, in what form, the taxes of the childless Hungarian people receiving the average wage will be reduced. I'm waiting for the government to answer. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-13-215	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, the answer will be given by Deputy Minister András Tállai, Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2022-06-13-216	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Over the last decade, the government's tax policy has focused on economic growth and support for families, with a focus on reducing taxes on work. In 2016, the government established this in a comprehensive agreement with employers and employees. In addition to the increase in the minimum wage, from 2017 onwards, it gradually reduced the burden on employers, from 28,5 percent to 13 percent. Thanks to the government's measures, we also achieved significant international success, as in 2009 our tax wedge in the EU means that the total tax burden on living work, which the employer and the employee pay together, was 53.1 percent, the second worst in the EU after Belgium, and now 41.2 percent. According to the latest OECD publication, Hungary has achieved the highest improvement. It is interesting to compare: we are better than Germany, Austria, Slovenia and Slovakia, although individual tax incentives are not even included in this statement. You can see that the government has made significant progress in reducing the tax wedge at international level. What I can tell you and promise you is that this job, this task, will be continued by the government when the budget situation, when the situation of the economy makes this possible. Obviously, the answer to your specific question will also be in this process. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-13-217	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman Zsolt Herczeg, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Office a question: what measures can we expect in the future in support of faith life? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, State Secretary Balázs Fürjes will answer you, please.
u2022-06-13-218	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The National Confession states that we are proud that our King Saint Stephen laid the Hungarian state on solid foundations a thousand years ago and made our country part of Christian Europe. In order for Hungary to remain a country of Hungarians in the long term, and for Christian culture to determine our daily lives, it is necessary that the relationship between historical churches and the government at all times is outstanding. This creates the possibility of achieving Community objectives, which is the joint task of the state and religious communities. We have seen a number of examples of this cooperation in recent years. Over the last 12 years, more than 3,000 churches have been renewed and 200 new ones have been built. The opposite is that the closure of churches to the west of us is currently characteristic. More than 1,800 modernizations have already begun in the unprecedented church renovation programme launched in 2021. It shows the government's commitment that the entire outer hull of the Reformed Church of Tiszaföldvár, built in 1788, has been renewed by the church building program in Tiszaföldvár. The renovation took place at two stages of construction, in which the church tower was implemented with a gross grant of HUF 13 million, while the reconstruction of the roof above the church ship was carried out with a gross grant of HUF 150 million. However, the interior of the church needs further renovation. Dear Secretary of State, As to what has been said, I ask what measures we can expect in the future in support of faith life. Thank you very much for your reply in advance. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-13-219	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, Secretary of State Balázs Fürjes answers the question. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2022-06-13-220	Honourable Congressman, Mr. President. Dear House, Both in Europe and Hungary, the separation of government and church, state and church has taken place. We are convinced that cooperation is now the focus. The government, as you know, sees the churches as a natural ally, and we treat their support as a priority. Since 2010, churches have been strategic partners of the Hungarian government. There has been a significant increase in the number of church institutions with a public mission. The share of ecclesiastical participation in public education has doubled from 6.3 percent to 15 percent, and there is a significant increase in social and child protection benefits, as well as a major step forward in raising the income gap for church persons and religious teachers. Indeed, we have been able to renew many churches. In the last 12 years, 3 thousand churches have been renewed in the Carpathian Basin in Hungary and 200 new churches have been built. We continue the Hungarian church reconstruction program: 1400 Hungarian and 400 Hungarian churches will be renewed within the framework of the program. We remain committed: Churches and believers can count on us. As long as Hungary has a civil government, all the necessary resources will be available to support the life of faith. The programs are continuing. We share the opinion of one of the founding fathers of the European Union, Robert Schuman, whether Europe becomes a Christian or not. In the spirit of this, we are political. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-13-221	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman Ferenc Dávid, representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister for Economic Development: When will the euro be introduced, which would help the Hungarian economy and entrepreneurs? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, By answering this question, the Prime Minister appointed Mr Mihály Varga, Minister of Finance, who is responsible and competent according to the subject. At the request of the Minister, Mr András Tállai, Deputy Minister of State, will answer the question. Congressman Ferenc David has the floor, please.
u2022-06-13-222	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Unfortunately, the currentity of my question is confirmed by the fact that this afternoon the forint/euro exchange rate reached a historic low: it exceeded the magical 400 forints. The Hungarian economy suffers from many troubles and diseases. Records of public debt, record of budget deficits, record of price increases. Overall, the entire country suffers from the failed economic policy of the Orbán government. One of the biggest problems is the exchange rate of the forint, which is constantly weakening. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said earlier that I quote: "The weak forint steals money from people's pockets. That's what's happening right now. The exchange rate fluctuations in the national currency and the unpredictable influence our daily lives, increase imports, making thousands of businesses work every day uncertain and risky. The changeover to the euro is an emotional, economic and political issue. The Greeks mourned for their old drachma, the Dutch forints, but when they had the chance, they gave up their ancient currency. I don't think it'd be a big break in souls for us if we had a different currency in two or three years. Croatia is now launching the euro from January and Bulgaria has announced that it is ready to meet the conditions for adopting the euro. The euro itself is not a tool to improve competitiveness, but it helps compare performances, prices and wages. It does not guarantee catch-up in itself, but it does not preserve lag, but it guarantees security and predictability, the stable value of wages and salaries. And another thing: it does not allow the swindling of the exchange rate and excludes the opaque business of the Hungarian National Bank, the personal business of the system's oligarchs with the help of the exchange rate. [[17.50]] If you care about the financial stability of Hungarian people, the reliable and predictable functioning of Hungarian businesses, then it is worth considering the introduction of the euro. The announcement of this would in itself reassure the market, investors, when the Hungarian economy is in serious crisis. I ask Minister, Mr Secretary of State: when do you intend to introduce the euro? Thank you very much.
u2022-06-13-223	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, you have been asked by Deputy Minister András Tállai, Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2022-06-13-224	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Our country is committed to the introduction of the single currency, the euro, but before it decides on its date, there is still a lot to do. In this way, the Maastricht convergence criteria must be met, and the Hungarian economy must be strengthened in addition to meeting them. The introduction of the euro must not be rushed, everyone knows that. The introduction of the euro is recklessly and unthinkingly causing more damage to the country's population, the country's economy, than the introduction itself. Therefore, the issue of the introduction of the euro in Hungary is not on the agenda. The euro area's difficulties have emerged in recent years, and its internal problems mean that the euro area needs to be renewed, stabilised and regained its former attractiveness. For us Hungary, the Hungarian economy and the Hungarian people remain the first. The arguments you have made are true, of course, and if this introduction and transition were to take place smoothly and without problems, it would, of course, be a good thing, but to get to that point with a very thoughtful and thoughtful economic policy. And for that to happen, patience is still required. I would like to note here that you have also said country names, and I would say the names of the Czech Republic and Poland, because there is no target date for the introduction of the euro, as in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-13-225	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Mr. President Novak, representative of Mi Hazank, would you like to ask the Prime Minister a question:. Will you be willing to order a fire or a multimillion-dollar on-site fine against violent border offenders in the event of border crossings? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, By answering this question, the Prime Minister has appointed Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of Interior, who is responsible and competent according to the subject, to answer the question at the request of the Minister, to be answered by Secretary-General Bence Rétvári. Congressman Novak has the floor. Here you go.
u2022-06-13-226	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I have the opportunity to ask this question with an elusive assembly, after the Dialogue and the KDNP have not made use of the possibility of a condition of the issue today. Mr State Secretary, unfortunately, the government is in favour of legal immigration, i.e. the establishment of migrant workers arriving from different continents, and there is only a half solution to illegal migrants. The border fence proposed by László Toroczkai as mayor of Asotthalom as early as 2015 was built, but the breakthrough migrants are only being escorted back, thousands a week to try again. The Hungarian Movement therefore has two more strong proposals in this area. We are calling for a restraining order against officers and soldiers who defend the border, not only for self-defense but also for the protection of the country, but also for the right to use weapons to act with sufficient deterrent force against violent border offenders. The first should be a warning shot, of course, but the time has passed for the invaders to be escorted out or fed in prison. We also propose a multimillion-forint on-site fine for those crossing the fence, as migrants often have thousands of euros in their pockets that would end up with smugglers. By confiscating them, however, migrants would soon be discouraged from trying in Hungary, saving billions in border protection with deterrent sanctions and reducing continent conquerors would be more effective. Of course, liberal international protection organisations are obviously, although in many cases I think they are more of an accomplice, they are expected to scream that Hungary is robbing migrants. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] But at least they'll get away from us. Why should we pay for the repairs to the serially damaged border fence? [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-06-13-227	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State, Deputy Minister.
u2022-06-13-228	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Hungary is committed to halting illegal migration and defending the southern border in Hungary consistently. With such consistency, not even a country in Europe has done so, and so few have done so, because we have asked the Hungarian people, and the Hungarian people have given a clear answer that they also want the government to protect Hungary from illegal migration at the southern border. It is somewhat well known that last year there was a very large increase in illegal migration compared to the previous year: 122 thousand people attempted to enter Hungary illegally compared to 46,000 in 2020. At the same time, this increase is expected to be even higher this year, and in the next few weeks the number of people who want to enter illegally will surely reach 100,000, as last year 40,000 people tried to enter Hungary on a pro rata basis until 12 June, and 93,000 people this year, more than twice as many, and the number of smugglers has also increased year by year and year by year. In 2020, there were 455 captured smugglers, 1277 all year round last year. And this year, if I compare it to last year, by the beginning of June, the authorities captured 375 smugglers last year and 649 people this year. So we're talking about a nearly double increase here, too. So you can see already in the middle of the year that we are expected to be there by the end of summer, if this trend continues, as last December, by the end of the year, and in this number there is no result of the Russian-Ukrainian war, as the economic downturn, food crisis, energy crisis will only ring into those areas later, or have its effects felt later, which can also start mass. So, this is, as it were, a post-coronal virus epidemic rise, which you can see here. That is why it is important to defend the southern border with all our might. For this reason, the government also gave the vigilantes 371 million forints to help protect the southern border, and the field guards received 170 million forints of support to protect the southern border as well as the police and border guards. The questions referred by the Member, on the one hand, are laid down in the law of the police, several warning shots have already been fired at the southern border, or judicial production is possible within eight days from the prosecution's office if someone is caught in the act as soon as he crosses the Hungarian border illegally. Thank you, Mr. President, for your patience. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-13-229	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, That concludes the questions. There will be debates now. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the proposed amendment of individual laws in the fields of defence, economic development and government administration and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. The government referral is T/166. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. I now give the floor to Dávid Héjj, the rapporteur of the committee, in an eight-minute time frame, because the 15 minutes are divided into 8 minutes for the committee rapporteur and 7 minutes for the presentation of the minority opinion. Hey, it's for Congressman David. Here you go.
u2022-06-13-230	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 10 June 2022, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/166 on the amendment of individual laws in relation to defence, economic development and government administration. Bill No. 1. (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.) The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 26 votes in favour and 10 votes against, pursuant to Article 26 of the Rules of Procedure. [[18.00]] Dear Parliament, The ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law and XCIII of 2021 on the coordination of defence and security activities. Law 3 has established a new constitutional basis for the special legal order and the legislation surrounding the order of the State's duties for defence and security purposes. The new legal environment is the 21st century. It regulates crisis management and special legal order measures adapted to the challenges of the 20th century, introducing a new legal institution for coordinated defence activities. The new legislation has made it necessary to correct the legislation at sectoral level, and therefore the primary objective of the bill is to ensure the necessary legal coherence of the legal systems due to changes in the basic laws and laws relating to crisis management and the coordination of security and security activities, which will enter into force on 1 November 2022. The bill also ensures the transfer of the necessary technical changes in the context of economic development and the amendment of the law on government administration, in line with the new governance structure established after the election of 3 April 2022. For the first time since the change of regime, defence and security rules have been fully rethinked and modernised, the rules of which at the legal level will be fulfilled with this proposal. The security and security regulatory reform will incorporate all the procedures and regulatory elements that have already been demonstrated in practice, and in the future, the decision-making needed for defence will be significantly more effective and faster, while constitutional guarantees will not be violated. As regulation becomes complete, the overall approach to crisis management is strengthened, in line with international trends in the field. If crisis management measures in each sector will not be sufficient, organised and coordinated, pre-practicable, general government action will be possible, with an organisational framework that can be established until the entry into force. The regulation clearly strengthens the security of our country and the protection of citizens. In view of this, the proposal should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-13-231	Thank you very much, Congressman David. I salute my fellow Members. I now give the floor again to Congressman Hey, David. [[For signal:]] No, I'm not giving it to you. I give the floor to Balázs Barkóczi, who will present the minority opinion in a seven-minute time frame. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-06-13-232	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Fellow Members! Before starting to present minority opinions in committee, I would like to draw everyone's attention to the fact that these amendments, which are now in front of the House, were submitted to the salad law, which includes, among other things, that the Prime Minister's salary should be increased, because the government now felt the moment to raise the Prime Minister's salary; when there is already a 25-percent increase in food prices, when the euro is 400 forints, and even since then the euro is 401 forints, and when the brutal austerity package you have presented, let us just call it the Orbán package, it includes the fact that medicines will be more expensive, insurances will be more expensive, banking will be more expensive, and flying will be more expensive. So we're seeing the same thing we've been seeing for 12 years now: you're trying to make people pay for your failed economic policy. Today, therefore, the government tabled 38 amendments to this salad law; as we said, among other things, with my colleague Miklós Hajnal at the committee meeting, we cannot support him. We cannot support it, because I think I am not exaggerating when I say that there are at least as outrageous and unacceptable points among the 38 amendments as the increase in the Prime Minister's salary. One of these is that state leaders, government ministers, government officials and government commissioners will also receive their severance pay even if they are located at a state firm immediately after their resignation or discharge. It is quite amazing that the ban on this matter, which was the only progressive element of the amendments and the whole bill, is now being taken out of this bill. At the same time, we could ask what we expect of the fifth Orbán government, when the fourth Orbán government almost a year ago, perhaps in May last year, increased the salary of its own state ministers by some HUF 450 thousand, so that people without work in the coronal virus epidemic, small and medium-sized enterprises that went bankrupt, did not receive a penny of help. Once again, they are preparing to distribute to their own people, including points 9, 19, 20 and 21 of the amendment, i.e. they are preparing to pay the political leaders who have fallen up and down as the Prime Minister pleases when inflation is 10.7%. By the way, this inflation has already eaten up the remainder of the few increases and benefits you have given to teachers and pensioners in the election campaign. Of course, they will, of course, defend themselves by the fact that the government decree made in the event of a war emergency does not allow this to happen. We know this defence, and it has been said several times, but the truth, my honourable fellow members of the government, is that you are like the favorite comic book hero of my childhood, Bobo, who loved only one thing more than a cucumber sandwich: the two cucumber sandwiches; the only thing you love more than power is more power. 'Cause what does that more power mean? It means that they do not have to comply with the laws they make themselves, nor do they apply to themselves, nor do you, at any time, decide to pay these severance payments, or, as soon as the emergency is lifted, the scope of this Regulation will cease to apply. That is why the Democratic Coalition said, among other things, that it should be laid down in law so that the political leader who is immediately located in a state company should not receive a severance pay. By the way, this is also the position that we have taken in the Commission's debate with my fellow Member, Mr Dawn, who has already been mentioned. It is regrettable that, in this debate, Mr Balázs Fürjes did not reply to us with a sentence, in one word, and did not reply to the points raised there. But not only did the Secretary of State say nothing to this, but also to those discussed in Amendment 26, which states that now, without legal consequences and redress, you can encrypt a great deal of data, including data on defence procurement and public procurement, so that people and opposition representatives will not be able to know about it. Once again, this reflects your view of democracy, because you see this House and the work that is going on here as being able to do anything during the joy of regulation governance, disregard the most fundamental civil rights, disregard opposition representatives who are sitting on this side, and who are also sent to this House by people, including me, who have won the mandate in a single mandate constituency, to monitor the work of the government and to speak out against such anomalies. Obviously, this is uncomfortable for you, and we have been crashing from emergency to emergency for years now, from regulation to regulation governance. I'm telling you, all of this means that you don't have to comply with your own laws, and you don't have to answer the opposition points. However, this is not true, as Minister of State Balázs Fürjes replied in one sentence to the amendment tabled by the Hungarian Socialist Party, which is supported by the opposition and which would tie the teachers' wages to the Prime Minister's wages. Hang on, you won't believe what the Secretary of State said. He said that the salary of the Hungarian Prime Minister is the 23rd of the 27 EU Member States. Well, Mr Secretary of State, the salary of Hungarian teachers is the 26th of the 27 Member States of the Union, the salary of teachers who are constantly humiliated by low wages, humiliated by overload, humiliated by the awards of 700 or 1000 forints, but somewhere only a potted flower was given to a whole faculty. So I really think that being able to pronounce such a sentence in Hungary today is the top of political cynicism. And just to remind you, Mr Secretary, that there was a prime minister in this country who did not take a penny for all this service, but did not restrict the rights of teachers, restrict the public, invade or close newspapers, nor have the Prime Minister's friends and associates stolen EU funds. So you can learn from him, quite calmly. So to sum up: the amendment package submitted by Fidesz cannot be supported by the opposition [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] We support the amendment tabled by the Hungarian Socialist Party. Thank you very much for your attention and patience, Mr President.
u2022-06-13-233	Thank you very much, Congressman Balázs Barkóczi. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Balázs Fürjes, that he wishes to speak now or at the end of the debate. [[18.10]]
u2022-06-13-234	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I do not wish to waste this House's time speaking twice; at the end of the debate I would definitely like to, so then. I'll listen hard, I'll take notes, and I'll answer everything. Thank you very much. [[Intercom from opposition lines: So be it.]]
u2022-06-13-235	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to the speaker who has been announced, Congressman Miklós Hajnal, Momentum.
u2022-06-13-236	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, Today inflation is two figures in Hungary. The euro is already 400 forints, and today we managed to reach this psychological limit again; 12 years ago, when Fidesz came to government, it was 265 forints. Foods are becoming more expensive, Hungarians have to spend an increasing share of their income to make a living. Overall, we can say that there is increasing uncertainty. Meanwhile, you have just submitted a salad law to admit that you think about your own salary before you think about the wages of the Hungarians. Because what is this proposal about? It is a long story, and I would like to highlight only the most serious part: the Prime Minister's salary would be increased more than double, and, by the way, the salaries of ministers and ministers of state can be raised freely in the future without any limit if this is voted on. They're trying to get this through in the middle of an economic crisis. I understand that the Prime Minister is envious, say, of Mr Speaker's fees, but if there is inflation and austerity, then I suggest that we reduce, in the spirit of camaraderie, the salary of the Speaker to what you are now trying to raise the Prime Minister's salary. The annual salary of teachers starting this year could be increased by approximately HUF 25,000 per person from the total amount of HUF 48 million saved. But not only does the Prime Minister's salary increase, but also that of ministers and ministers of state; even their salary can increase unlimitedly. So far, the average domestic gross salary for political seniors has been ten times the limit, and you want to abolish this limit for good. I'm asking you, isn't ten times the average salary enough for you? Not enough for who? Put your hands up, please. I know there's not a lot of people in this room, but, well... nobody? [[No signal.]] Nobody. Then why are they bringing this up? Why do you want to vote for this? The original proposal was also part of a few paragraphs last week, I think, of the 37th and 100th. As part of the article, and here we would have praised you for what a saving attitude you reflected, because in these paragraphs you would have recorded that political senior leaders and government commissioners would not receive severance benefits if they had only changed hats, but would continue to work in the bond of the state. Unfortunately, at last week's session of the Legislative Committee, which has just been reported, the pro-government representatives managed to torpedo this part of the proposal and take it out with the amendment that we are discussing today. And this is just a few lines from the more than 60-page proposal, which could be debated with almost all its points, as it may be quite disturbing to hear, say, as a health worker, that they can now be assigned by a body authorized by a simple government decree. Or even more harsh: most of the proposal deals with defence issues, but last week an amendment was smuggled into it again in the framework of the Legislative Committee meeting, on the basis of which it could be denied for up to ten years on grounds of national security and defence interests, subjectively based on the opinion of ministers, what data is given and what is not. So, neither in its process nor in its contents will this salad law adopted or cheated at the pace of the attack be the jewel of Hungarian parliamentarism, it is quite obvious. However, the fact that you are raising your own salary even in the middle of an economic crisis before those who are much more seriously affected by this crisis are a clear disregard of the public interest, that is what you are doing with this proposal. This is something that a decent, patriotic Member simply cannot support, and that is why we will not support. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2022-06-13-237	The next speaker is Congressman László Keresztes, LMP.
u2022-06-13-238	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I think we can say that the statement made by the government to start saving on themselves has proved to be a big lie. It has already been mentioned that the biggest scandal in this bill was a drastic increase in the Prime Minister's salary, but in addition, the bill provides an opportunity to raise the salaries of ministers and State Secretarys without any cap. So you can see that in a period of crisis such as this, when the 400 HUF limit has indeed been exceeded by the euro exchange rate, you want to spend more on maintaining the government, you want to spend more on politics than in previous years. By the way, 67 State Secretarys have already been elected after the elections, 17 government commissioners have been entrusted with a priority remuneration, and 108 Deputy State Secretarys have already received their mandate. In comparison, 64 Deputy State Secretarys assisted the operation of the then Orbán government in 2010, with a record number of 104 Deputy State Secretarys in office in the last cycle. We have now succeeded in overcoming this number, even during the extremely deep crisis: there are now 108 Deputy State Secretarys. But if we look at the office of President Katalin Novák, next year he will manage for HUF 5.8 billion instead of HUF 3.5 billion compared to this year. So you can see that you want to spend a lot more on the government, you want to spend a lot more on politicians, you want to spend a lot more on yourself than you did before. Mr Secretary of State has just made a commitment that he will try to answer all the questions. I'm trying to take your word for it, Mr. Secretary, and I'm asking you a loosely related question. This salad law also affects the health system, the defense laws. I would like to ask you a question about that. A few days ago, or perhaps a week ago, a rather strange news shuddered the mood of the Hungarian public. This was about the dismissal of a world-famous, internationally recognized vascular surgeon from the Honvéd Hospital by letter, so the termination meant that his contract had been terminated. We're talking about a vascular surgeon who's been invited around the world to try to learn the surgical procedures he's developed, quite specific surgical procedures. So he doesn't teach med students, he doesn't study university students, he studies the best vascular surgeons in the world. So it can be said that it is an authority that is recognized everywhere in the world. Compared to this, the Honvéd Hospital did not even mark the reasons for the termination of the contract by sending a letter in paper form. We are talking about a vascular surgeon who received a very high state award two years ago, and by the way, Deputy Minister Retvári was there when this world-famous surgeon received this medal. My question, Mr Secretary of State, is how this can happen in Hungary, how the Honvéd Hospital treats a world-famous authority. I think that we can agree that there is no rich country, and that there is no well-functioning healthcare where such a dilettious decision can be made. We do not know whether there really was net dilettantism behind this, professional jealousy or anything else, or whether it was simply a place to be, as the world-famous specialist, who otherwise assumed to be speaking to the press, but I think that you also owe me an answer in such a case, Mr State Secretary, and I hope that you will keep in this case what you have just undertaken, and that, if not for me, for the public, you will give an explanation of this outstanding case to the public. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2022-06-13-239	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask that someone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Balázs Fürjes, State Secretary, who has a 15-minute timeframe to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2022-06-13-240	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Well, let me say to Congressman that I am trying to answer questions about the bill, I have never considered myself to be a competent comrade. I would like to look into it, but I think that, in the form of an interpellation, question, the Minister for Health and the Ministry can be the main recipient of this question. The Minister of the Interior and Secretary of State Rétvári will certainly give an excellent answer, but I promise you that I will also look into this issue. I'm aware of the incident, of course, but I don't like to talk about something without knowing the details. During the general debate on the bill, we also said that we are really living in the age of danger, and that Hungary must face at least five plus one major danger, so that none of these are its fault, and we do not cause these dangers. Armed conflict, war going on next door. In part, in this context, and regardless of this, the war has obviously started to worsen an economic crisis in Europe, in the world. [[18.20]] There is a shortage of energy, security of food supply in many places, the price of food, energy sources, energy sources and energy sources, and what will become of capacity problems and shortages. Then, in the context of these, a growing pressure on population migration, increasing migration. And on top of that, we are living in the age of epidemics, and we are all experiencing this, and if this is not enough, then there is Brussels' excellent sanctions policy, which in many cases has managed to bring more disadvantage to ourselves, the Member States of the European Union, who impose sanctions than the Russian aggressor who is targeted. So we are living in the age of dangers, pandemics, migration, the war in the neighborhood, which, unfortunately, will certainly determine the months, years to come. New threats pose new challenges, and rapid and effective, flexible government action is needed. In this spirit, legislative proposals or legislative amendments have been made in the past year, years, and this is also the legislative amendment proposal. As a result of the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law, the number of special legal situations has decreased to three cases instead of the previous six. Our main goal is to protect the peace and security of Hungarian families. A new pillar of threat prevention and management in peacetime is the institution of coordinated defence activities. Accordingly, the bill before us, which was negotiated by the Parliament, seeks to ensure the internal coherence of the legal system. It adapts the entry into force of all related legislative provisions to the advance entry into force of the ninth amendment to the Fundamental Law. Following the general debate, the Judicial Committee held a detailed debate, and no final Commission amendment was tabled. The amendment adopted at the meeting of the Legislative Committee contains, in total, some substantive and partly technical amendments in 38 points. Among the substantive amendments, the opposition representatives also aimed at XCIII of 2021 on the coordination of defence and security activities. supplementing the law. In order to protect our country, it is essential that the scope of certain data listed in detail and in detail in the law is not made public, and that it is not freely accessible by anyone. This is the only way to guarantee the safety of our country. It is not difficult to see that information on certain procurements, contracts, management data, personnel and the structure, operation, technical means and equipment of the National Event Management Centre managed by the central body of defence and security administration cannot be considered as public interest in conflict situations. The amendment was also supported in writing by the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, NAIH, as an autonomous body controlling the protection of personal data and the exercise of freedom of information. We find a great deal of international examples of similar legislative provisions in the European Union. The Legislative Committee did not support the Socialists' amendment. We felt it important to say in the debate that there is a need for a continuous increase in teachers' wages. The government doesn't think that teachers' wages are in place. Action should be taken in proportion to the country's capacity to carry out its duties. This is why Minister Sándor Pintér and the head of the advocacy organisation have also announced to the press that he has experienced openness and constructivity. We can certainly take further steps next year, in years, to raise teachers' wages. Some say that although we have heard a number of objections from opposition speakers, there is only one subject that the opposition has tabled an amendment: only in relation to the Prime Minister's wallet. I don't see anything wrong with that. I think that the glass is half full, let's look at the bright side: they agree with everything else, and they didn't think that their other provisions would be corrected or altered by an amendment. This is good news, I think, and thank you very much for your support with the attitude on it. As far as the Prime Minister's salary is concerned, I also said in the general debate, that can be debated, and I understand that if there are different positions, this is the natural thing in a democracy - is it right that after 11 years the Parliament will settle the Prime Minister's salary, the right thing is that Hungary's Prime Minister, as the DK representative said, is 23. in the pay ranking of EU prime ministers? The neighbouring Chancellor of Austria earns eight times the remuneration of the current Hungarian Prime Minister; the Prime Minister of Slovakia earns more; the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic earns more if the bill is passed by the House, the remuneration of the Czech Prime Minister will still be higher; and the President of the European Council and the European Commission earns about eight times more, against whom the Prime Minister of Hungary regularly enforces Hungarian interests. The Hungarian Prime Minister will be at the bottom of the middle field if the Parliament adopts this proposal. We consider this to be a fair and acceptable proposal, which is a test of international comparison. As to what we have just said: Parliament is not uncomfortable for us, Member. We have always fought in politics to represent Hungarian people in politics in free elections, so it is not uncomfortable for us in Parliament, but it is a pleasure and an honor to be here. I'm just quietly and modestly suggesting that teachers may not be used for political purposes. The negotiations have begun, and we will proceed. With your permission, Congressman, of course, I do not know if you have addressed it to us or to your opposition fellow Members, but we would not learn from Ferenc Gyurcsány, at the most we learn from the wrong example. After all, he was the one who said, perhaps in the walls of this House, but perhaps in his famous autumn speech, that we lied in the morning, in the night and in the evening, we deceived the Hungarians. He made some pretty amazing confessions at a secret party conference and ruined our country. So we certainly don't want to learn from him. And I can assure you that we will not turn to this issue, and we will not change our opinion. A representative of a party sitting next to you, there are these new generation left parties who all came into politics with the idea that they would clean up Ference Gyurcsány, your party president from the left. They came in saying they wouldn't ask for the old left, they'd be the new left. In the morning or early afternoon, I was able to quote what the Momentum said. He said I'm sorry, I'm trying to quote it literally, I wouldn't say that to myself, not even about Ferenc Gyurcsány, what the hell Ferenc Gyurcsány is still doing in politics, he would do best to get out of here. Let's discuss this among ourselves, because that was one of the emblematic words of the Momentum about Ferenc Gyurcsány. But we could quote sentences like that from the LMP and all the new left-wing parties. They all ran into him, said they'd outrun Gyurcsány, clean it up. And then, no doubt, if it's a compliment, consider it a compliment that your party president ate all of them for breakfast, and he didn't even lay down his stomach, and now you're on your back, asking for them into Parliament. They've never been able to get inside the Momentum on their own. [[Balázs Barkóczi, pointing to Miklós Hajnal: He was elected on his own!]] As a couple. You know exactly what I'm talking about, Congressman. I may have been the first of the pro-government lines who could congratulate the congressman on this at 10:00 p.m. because he defeated me in a noble fight. So, of course, I know that Congressman Miklós Hajnal won individually in Budapest, but Momentum has never been able to get into Parliament on its own. And there are other parties in the benches on the left that were not able to do so. [[18.30]] But you helped them out, and Gyurcsány undoubtedly brought in these parties, which once wanted to destroy him in Parliament. We will not make such a turnaround, and we will never be willing to learn from Ferenc Gyurcsány, I assure you. I could go a long way, but at this point, perhaps back to your comments or other suggestions. It is difficult to listen to what you hear from the opposition benches about existential uncertainty. Then let us call on the facts and perhaps call on an organization that is acceptable to you and will not question it, this is Eurostat. What does Eurostat say about the Hungarian welfare situation? Since 2010, the number of people at risk of poverty has been reduced by 1 million 250 thousand, according to Eurostat data, with less people at risk of poverty in Hungary since we took over the governance of a country on the brink of the Gyurcsány heritage. The proportion of those at risk of poverty or social exclusion decreased from 32% to 18% in Eurostat. Eurostat also says that the proportion of people in severe material deprivation has fallen to a third compared to 2010. During the ten years 2010-2020, the number of people with significant difficulties in an unexpected expenditure fell by 4 million. Moreover, this is very good news, we have worked a lot for it, there is still work to be done, but we welcome it among the Roma between 2013 and 2020, so the proportion of people living in relative income poverty has halved over seven years. I cannot stress that this is all Eurostat data. With regard to the 180-day severance rule, I am trying to say two things quickly. On the one hand, there is a government decree that contains this rule and applies and applies to all state leaders. It's 185/2022. Government Decree No.2 contains this rule now, and everyone whose mandate or legal relationship expired after 1 May 2022, for example, is subject to this rule. So this ban is still part of the legal order, the government decree is in force. If it appears later in a legal rule, because it is undoubtedly a higher law, then I hope they will endorse me as loudly as a measure of a technical nature is being criticised for its withdrawal from this law. I ask that when this appears as a legislative proposal in another law, they express their agreement with the same determination. Of course, this is just an opportunity, a government representative can never or will not require the opposition to behave. Thank you very much for your attention. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I ask the House to support the bill. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-13-241	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Balázs Fürjes. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today, and now we are going to take the floor after the agenda. Lóránt László Keresztes, representative of the LMP, applied for a post-meeting speech:. Our castle, Pécs
u2022-06-13-242	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Indeed, in my speech after the current agenda, I will also talk about the situation of my country, the city of Pécs, and the problems that are visible there, but at the same time I will talk about an issue, a problem that is far from national. We can see and see that we all have to live with the effects of climate change, we have to face extreme weather phenomena more and more often, and we have experienced in the whole country a few days ago how brutal a flood has affected almost the entire territory of the country. This was no different in Pécs, there was an amazing amount of precipitation a few days ago, and in a very short time about 30 millimeters of rain fell on the city. The effects of this were visible, as we all traveled through the city, had quite amazing effects, mudlucks formed, parts of the city where we could say that a river had been created, and there was a recently renovated store where the water had actually flowed, and that there had been billions of damage. In several parts of the city, it was seen that at this amazing speed, the huge rainfall that fell over a very short period of time, the drainage systems could not cope, and the firefighters were forced to work all day; as in other parts of the country, there were very, very many alarms here in Pécs. It is clear that we must take the effects of climate change seriously, this is not a future problem, we can perceive the effects of this every day, and unfortunately we have no chance of being able to apply it. So, in the face of climate change, we need to increase our preparedness and give everything, all the support, opportunity and resources to the cities, so that they can do so. In addition, we must, of course, do everything we can to mitigate the effects of climate change, and that is why we find it hard to believe that the government side is still questioning the importance of this issue, this challenge. It is clear that there are tasks that can be carried out under municipal authority, and there are tasks, challenges that require adequate government support, adequate public resources. It is obviously a city policy tool for urban planning, choosing how a city leadership coalition or a city leadership faction allows the installation of the city and its areas, how it can increase or take action to increase the green surface. Obviously, it is very, very important not to reduce, but to increase green spaces, but other urban planning and urban building tasks also have to be carried out by city leaders. A significant part of these can be solved in municipal powers, but in order to be able to build the various drainage infrastructures, there is a need for a municipality, a city, the appropriate central resources and central support, as measured by the weight of the tasks. Unfortunately, in recent years, over the course of the various crises, the government has not increased the support of the municipalities, it has not increased the leeway of the municipalities, but has applied a continuous austerity policy. Government measures to reduce the funding of municipalities and to reduce their room for manoeuvre, despite the fact that municipal tasks have increased both during the coronal virus epidemic and in terms of the effects of the economic crisis, and that own revenues have decreased anyway. The mayor of Pécs also indicated that the city needed about six billion forints of compensation in order to carry out the most important tasks, in contrast to the new government measures that would not help, but provide new restrictions, new withdrawals to the city of Pécs and, of course, to the other cities and other municipalities. It must be made clear at every moment that when the government cuts down on the cities, it punishes not the city leader, not the mayor, but the people who live there, regardless of their party standing. So it will be equally difficult for both pro-government and opposition voters. I think that it is extremely irresponsible to have a government policy, a government measure that makes it difficult or more difficult for cities to carry out these important tasks because of austerity. At the same time, the responsibility is obvious and the correct interpretation of tasks is obvious when proper urban policy measures must be taken by a mayor or a general assembly, and ecological aspects must always be enforced here. I am very confident that we will be able to establish a political situation so that the government side, the central government, can feel its responsibility in order to provide the cities with financial support for preparing for such extreme weather conditions. We will certainly represent this in the current budget debate. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-06-13-243	Thank you very much, Congressman László Keresztes. I now give the floor to Mr Zoltán Varga, a representative of DK, who will therefore ruin Debrecen, who has also applied for a post-op address.
u2022-06-13-244	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, And that's true. Only because today's news is that the euro is already over 402 forints. If anything, I'm sure you can see it from the moon. I'm sure you can see that from the moon, but that's what you're talking about, honourable pro-government Members, respected pro-government politicians, and, of course, there's no fidesz person who can admit it, yes, the yelling fact that they're gonna destroy Debrecen, and that's gonna come up against us every day. [[18.40]] You know Debrecen is on the edge of nothing and something, just like the other 3,200 settlements in our beloved country, and, well, to the mayor of Debrecen, it should be said that he is gnashing his teeth, but he manufactures and manufactures newer urban budgets, plans never realizing real estate sales just so that the budget of my beloved city, Debrecen, which was looted by the government, can be at least matched in the dice booklet. Do you know what the people of the Debrecen city office who are doing everything they can to really work beyond their strength to make this budget work? All this is happening to match the numbers. This is the reason why experts in the economics department show that Fidesz fantasies appear in the budget. And, let's say, Lajos Kósa doesn't give a rat's ass about the fate of his own city, so he'll have something to do with it; he's living the loose everyday life of the Bonvi-Van Fidesz MEPs, so he goes to a game and concerts, so we see that he doesn't really think about knocking on the Carmelite monastery to see if he can make any money for the people of Debrecen and Debrecen. Of course, the propaganda of the government and the leaders of the city of Debrecen, the known victory reports, show something completely different about this. According to them, the city is rich in wealth, the government is hundreds of billions, they appear in the city's budget, because they believe that the government is giving hundreds of billions to the capital of Fidesz, but they somehow forget that that money is not for families in Debrecen, workers in Debrecen, social and health workers, teachers, education and health care, the construction of roads, and that there would be a lot of need to improve it, perhaps to consolidate the local government and its companies in the city. This is not the case; it is only a few prestige investments that are kind and important to Szijjártó and Orbán that they want to finance from the serious hundreds of billions. And here's the problem. The city and I go on, not only the city, but the best lands in all Hungary are being dozed down right now, not just now, in recent years, and they are pouring out and down with concrete just so that they can serve the needs of some automotive multinationals and, of course, the government kleptocrácia. And, well, what else would the lured multinationals do but rape the city's construction regulations, reduce the mandatory green area and increase the level of integration, of course, with the help of a fidesz majority of the city's general assembly. Debrecen's not in a good position. In Debrecen, the concentration of particulate matter and air pollution slowly sweeps the upper part of the health limit in a constant way, our beloved city is slowly becoming unlivable, since in the summer typical heat islands are formed, especially in residential areas, as in Asian, technically overdeveloped cities, the Great Forest is destroyed, the well-being lakes around the city are dried up, and the excursion zones are ruined. But according to the government and its loyal vassals in Debrecen, there's nothing wrong here. The present is the best of all worlds, and Debrecen is the alternative capital of Fidesz, where hundreds of billions of governments flow. That's the narrative. The mayor is silent about it, and Lajos Kósa may not even realize that tax withdrawals, the fact that due to the fast-track inflation and the runaway energy prices, the city spends billions more forints a year on urban public lighting alone, that public transport is practically bankrupt. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] We didn't even count on the loss of the fuel price of billions. Debrecen will also destroy Fidesz, just like the other cities in Hungary. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-06-13-245	Thank you very much, Congressman Zoltán Varga. Balázs Barkóczi, representative of DK, applied for a post-meeting speech:. Who cares about the XV. District Wonderland's kids? It's an address.
u2022-06-13-246	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, It is sad how little we talk about the early development and care of children with disabilities here, within the walls of the Parliament, even though this problem affects more and more Hungarian families. Based on a study by developers, at least 30 percent of children have an atypical developmental problem, and even an increasing number of people are diagnosed with autism and ADHD, i.e. attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. Although the current legislation puts the time of early development between zero and five years of age and requires compulsory preschool care for children from the age of three, the average age of early development is above three years, and in kindergartens, the conditions for ensuring high-quality early childhood intervention are not solved that can be provided by a well-equipped early development centre. Unfortunately, this is not the only anomaly in early development in Hungary. Due to the restructuring of pedagogical services, for example, the quality of the development available in each district is very different, and not only in small villages, but also in larger cities, there is a shortage of professionals. Many parents are forced to make use of private development, the costs of which are or may exceed HUF 100,000 per month, not to mention that those who wish to use such a service have to travel up to 50 to 100 kilometers in rural areas, and their costs are not financed by the state as well. And even though a differentiated teaching method is available in NAT, children out of kindergarten still end up in many separate educational institutions, which can or may not do many years of development work. Let us also add that churches that are often the main, uncritical servers of the party's inhumane social and damaged policies, so that integration is not reflected in the charter of educational institutions in the maintenance of these churches, are easier for them to embellish children without problems than, according to the teachings of their own faith, to show solidarity with the most vulnerable and vulnerable. Ladies and gentlemen, In my constituency, the 15th. The Budapest institution of the integrated playhouse network called Wonder Castles operates in the district of Budapest. During my last visit, it was also moving to see the commitment and professional skills of the professionals working there, their perseverance in their daily work. The Pestújhelyi Csodávár is more than an early development centre, a community space where damaged and intact children can get acquainted with each other and gain insight into each other's world and everyday life, thus strengthening their openness to each other and developing their emotional intelligence. However, even in this literal miracle castle, early development professionals face problems that are a disgrace to the state, a disgrace to the two-thirds power party for 12 years, and to all those who support it as state or church actors. Of course, I have no illusions, the fate of damaged children and their parents will not be touched by those who have been unwilling to acknowledge the desperate situation of damaged care and early development in Hungary for more than a decade and who do not recognize home care as work. It will not affect those who conclude public education contracts for many institutions, despite the request of professionals, for only one year, if they are willing to conclude at all. It will not affect those who, let alone provide more public resources for early development and damaged care, would be able to and would be willing to draw money from many institutions. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Finally, the aim is not to keep fighting fire, but to help these children and families, to appreciate professionals, because, as I said a few weeks ago here in this House, it is not the invalid referendums on false questions that would mean real family and child protection. You have all the means to act, to act as a responsible government and to act! Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]] [[18.50]]
u2022-06-13-247	Thank you very much, Congressman Balázs Barkóczi. After the agenda, Congresswoman Andrea Hegedüs, representative of DK, asked for a speech. Part one: Great with the title "the silence" around the Y-bridge. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2022-06-13-248	Mr President, Dear House, Too bad, too bad the situation turned out this way, incoherent, unreasonable, illogical, and lack of foresight. Why and who am I saying all this to? The Fidesz signs, because the Miskolc population is bad again. They are literally bad, because the construction of the so-called Y Bridge, which has been going on for two years, is almost pain in everyday transport due to long detour routes, more than 20,000 people live near the stages of design and construction of this bridge. We need this bridge, but what does the public pay for it? It would have been a good solution if they had followed the town's advice and built a branched road between Martinkertváros and Szirma, which was planned for the construction of the M30 motorway in 2004. By closing the Y Bridge, the journey time on the rescue routes has tripled the original, reaching one hour in the morning and afternoon rush hour. What's two years ago 10 minutes is now 40-50 minutes. Who's affected by the anomaly? Kindergarteners, schoolchildren, and their parents, who have to get up much earlier to get to the group room, classrooms, and workplaces in time because of the construction of the overpass. Small pensioners who worked a life for this country aren't even appreciated. They are not in a hurry to work for a while, but due to their age and illness, they are travelling to a doctor's office, which is also a long journey. Because of waiting for hours of medical examination, they must be on the means of transport early in the morning if they do not want to spend their entire day in the clinics. It also affects elderly people who are still in good health and seek market access to more booths, because they are looking for the cheapest products due to skyrocketing food prices, since the minimum pension of HUF 28 500 has to be allocated. It also affects motorists who are concerned about the higher fuel costs, the depreciation of the vehicle. Gas stop or no gas stop, they pay more, because access to the city centre is double-paid at the gas station. And it affects the people who live there. The noise of trucks, trucks and increased traffic carrying the building materials necessary for the construction of the overpass destroyed the tranquility of the residents of the quiet, bird-screen suburban areas. It should be noted that the state inland roads compete with the quality of the wagons due to the investment. It also affects small and medium-sized enterprises, freight suppliers, it's nerve-stricken for them to get from one point of the city to another. As long as they harvest from A to B, they have time to think about how they're going to farm the extra for cutting the rent and avoid bankruptcy. In addition to the problems we have had so far, I am thinking of the shortage of resources, the shortage of raw materials, the shortage of labour, and now the rise in energy prices. The government had no foresight as to the problem of being late to the ambulance, the policeman, the firefighter in these isolated parts of the city. And that's been going on for two years. Once, the people here were informed that the date of the handover would be held. Well, hold on. The public is waiting for the start of the school year for this traffic chaos to end. You can read the October and November delivery dates from certain news sources. No, they're handing this over in September. Work was delayed in 2020. People are impatient and moaning the burden of austerity so far, so there is no additional difficulty in transport. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2022-06-13-249	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Andrea Hegedüs. At the same time, Mr Bence Tuzson, representative of Fidesz, also applied for a post-meeting address. You have the floor.
u2022-06-13-250	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, The first word is thanks. For my part, I would like to thank the people of Dunakeszin, Foton, Göd, Csomadon, Csomör, Erdőkertés and Veresegyház for their support in the parliamentary elections, and for the third time I have been elected a Member of Parliament. But now, in this election, I got the most votes. Yes, but this recognition is not for me, it is for the people living there, there are industrious people living in this region; it is for the local governments; and it is for the people working together in local cooperation, because together we have achieved the results, the region of Dunakeszi, Fot, God, Csomad, Csömör, Erdőkertes and Veresegyház became the fastest developing region in Hungary. We have worked together to allow children to go to school in good conditions; to ensure that our health institutions are of the highest quality possible; and it is very important that we have talked about this several times between the walls of this House: transport development, investment in transport development, as we have also achieved very serious results in this area. I can mention the link between M2 and Route 2, which helps the people of Dunakeszi much, but also the people of Göd and the development of Route 2, because by expanding and developing route 2, people can reach the capital and their place of residence much faster and save valuable time, as they can spend much more time with their families. Let us also talk about two specific investments, since we cannot stop on the path we have started. One of them is the student quarter investment in Dunakesz, as this region is one of Hungary's youngest regions, most of the children are here, the Dunakesz district is the district that is the largest in terms of children's numbers. This is why it is important to have high school developments in addition to primary school development. We have several of these developments in progress, but our largest and most important investment is the student quarter investment in Dunakesz. Here we are talking about an investment that has now started, is taking place, who is in the area, you can see that the walls are growing out of the ground, this investment is being made on some 37 thousand square meters, now the tower cranes are standing, there are seven huge tower cranes. The school will be ready on time, and the school will be able to start. Of course, education will start sooner, since the municipality has provided a building in which education can start earlier, so the children will only move to new schools with the construction of the buildings. Schools, I tell you, because they're two schools. We're talking about a four-year high school, and we're talking about a technique that's going to be a five-year school. In addition, there will be two large sports fields, one of which will have serious bleachers, so there will also be competitions and even international competitions. But there is also a very serious swimming pool investment, which will be able to hold large international competitions in water polo. Of course, such an investment must also ensure that such a large construction is also a green investment. Therefore, a large green area will be realized over the large dining room, which will be unique during the planning and construction process. We paid attention to making it unique, so it will be an investment that is unique in Hungary. This is Hungary's largest high school investment today. [[19.00]] And, of course, there are other school investments in the area. We are almost ready for the technical transfer in Göd with the expansion of the Németh László School, there are 9 new classrooms. We've already built these classrooms, we're on the verge of handing them over. After the technical transfer, a few more things need to be done, and soon, in the next academic year, children will be able to occupy these parts of the building. All in all, we can say that with the cooperation that has been achieved here in Dunakeszi, Hungary's largest educational investment will be made, but we will continue on this path. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And besides God, Dunakeszi, Fot, Csomad, Csömör, Erdőkertes and Veresegyház can continue to count on our work and my work. Thank you very much, Mr President, for listening.
u2022-06-13-251	Thank you very much, Congressman Bence Tuzson, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. Have a good day, everyone.
