u2022-11-10-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good morning. Dear Parliament, The 13th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and Sándor Berki will be in charge of the meeting. I welcome all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, A further extension of the operating hours of the existing Paks Nuclear Power Plant will be proposed and the 1996 CXVI on nuclear power. a joint general debate on the amendment of law and certain related laws until closure. Government referrals H/1838. and T/1839. available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr Attila Steiner, State Secretary of the Ministry of Technology and Industry, author of the decision proposal and the bill. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2022-11-10-1	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, A very important prerequisite for Hungary's further development is predictable, safe and carbon-free energy supply. The European energy threat posed by the war in Ukraine and the sanctions in Brussels has particularly assessed the issue of energy security and energy prices. Every country is faced with the need to take measures to reduce energy exposure in order to ensure its energy supply in a satisfactory manner in the long term and to help them to produce as much energy as possible. It is therefore of particular importance to me that I can present this bill and the proposal for a resolution to this House, because the operation of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant will make a significant contribution to ensuring that we can continue to produce electricity at a favourable price for the Hungarian people and industry in the future. The drastic rise in price increases caused by the war and the misguided Brussels sanctions policy and the lack of energy across the continent have assessed the role of power plants such as the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, which has been operating safely and reliably for decades as our core power plant and is also a cost-effective domestic production of electricity. This necessity was recognised by the German government and, most recently, by the Polish government after a long political debate when it took decisions on nuclear power plants. The Paks Nuclear Power Plant is today the country's cheapest production and extremely predictable utility capacity. The role of the power plant in the domestic energy mix is unquestioned, half of the domestic electricity generation and, if you look at domestic consumption, 36 percent of the power plant provides. In order to ensure security of energy supply, to keep energy prices at a level and to protect the results of the reductions, the government announced an energy hazard in the summer with a seven-point action plan presenting rapid and decisive measures for the war situation. One of the cornerstones of this was the extension of the operating hours of the otherwise safe and predictable nuclear power plant. The first nuclear law was adopted in Hungary in 1980, before the first block of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant was put into operation. The construction of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant itself was decided in 1966, and the four current reactors started operating between 1982 and 1987. Originally, the nuclear power plant was designed for 30 years of operation, the four currently 500 megawatts were built between 1982 and 1987, and the 30-year period was extended by 20 years, thus the block's licenses would expire between 2032 and 2037. Although these dates may seem very far from 2022, I think that we need to plan in the long term and ensure the long-term security of the country's electricity supply. This is why it is very important that today's debate is being held. The implementation of the further extension project is preceded by a very careful and many years of preparation, planning and authorisation procedure, and as part of this complicated and long process, we will coordinate with governments in neighbouring countries, gain international experience and study other good practices that can be found, and we plan to conclude a cooperation agreement with the International Atomic Energy Agency during the implementation of the procedure, which can help prepare for extended operation through training programmes and direct exchange of experience. As a result of the extension project, more electricity may be available in Hungary after the period 2032-.37 and not imported, but produced in Hungary. Thus, the blocks of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant will continue to participate in domestic electricity generation at a rather high rate after 2032. The quantity produced is a very important indicator, but of course we must not forget the safety issues. Of course, nuclear safety takes precedence over all other aspects. The nuclear authorisation procedures will be carried out by the National Atomic Energy Office, acting as a self-regulating body, on request of the holder, and the Office will examine the conditions for further extension by block and decide on the duration of further operation on the basis of the results of this investigation. I trust that the role of nuclear energy will be properly managed and that common sense will prevail in Brussels, and that everyone will see that without nuclear power, we will not be able to meet the 2050 climate targets, so that we can look at a constructive dialogue when we are negotiating the conditions for extension. If we look at energy market processes, we have seen that in one year the price of electricity has increased more than five times and the price of gas has increased more than six times, and there is also a need for further energy independence projects in terms of security of supply, so that, in line with the strategic objectives, the most cost-effective solution is to extend the operating time of the existing well-functioning power plant, so that it can operate reliably together with the new blocks of Paks II investment. The government is committed to carrying out this extension project, and it should also be pointed out that nuclear power can already be considered as sustainable energy under the Taxonomics Regulation, and given precisely that and considering the geopolitical situation, Poland has just announced the construction of two new nuclear power plants. [[9.10]] It is also important to stress that, under the European Green Agreement, by 2050, the European Union and, as Hungary undertook in 2020, Hungary will be carbon neutral by 2050, and one of the prerequisites for this is that we can build on electricity as much as possible. However, this requires electricity, as appropriate. In addition, I believe that Hungary is one of the most attractive investment destinations in Europe, and our investment rate on GDP is 29 percent, which is extremely high. High-tech companies, electric motoring, the energy needs of the mechanical industry are already extremely high. If these investments are made, a very significant increase in energy consumption is expected, and this will occur mainly in the area of electricity. I would also like to inform you that the government is also planning investments that will lead to efficiency gains and new energy storage solutions, for example, to the establishment of battery batteries; this is also very important to maintain the security of the electricity grid. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that, in the event of a further extension of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, it is not fundamentally statutory to approve the Parliament in advance, in principle, but we thought that, given the importance of the project and in the interests of its transparency, it is appropriate to inform this House on this matter. Members voting in favour of the extension of the nuclear power plant's operating time in November 2005 were aware that ensuring the country's energy supply was an extremely important matter, including party interests, and that there was no war, no energy threat or no faulty sanctions at the time. So I would now urge you to support the proposal to extend the Paks nuclear power plant's operating time. Turning to legislative proposals, the bill to be negotiated amends five laws. The National Atomic Energy Office has become a separate regulatory body, and this change of status results in several amendments, in this context we need to clarify legislation declaring three international conventions. In addition, Annex XXII to the EEA Agreement is amended as follows: An amendment to the Act concerning the Nuclear Power Act will not enter into force with regard to the designation of the competent authority due to the change in the designation of the determining authority, given that the text concerned is amended in the proposal under discussion. The Nuclear Power Act provides technical clarification on the basis of the experience gained in the course of official procedures, which will help the nuclear monitoring body perform more effectively; and the telereporting already introduced will subsequently cover the entire nuclear monitoring body's activities, thus obtaining information will not only apply to nuclear power plants, but also to other nuclear installations and radioactive waste storage facilities. It is also an important step that, when the draft is adopted, the period for the examination of the application for authorisation submitted to the National Atomic Energy Office will be set for the first request for replacement. This additional rule is necessary because, in view of the complexity of the procedures and the deadlines for administration of the procedures of the National Atomic Energy Office, the request for replacement may be issued several times. The amendment proposal would therefore set the deadline for sending the first deficiency and set it on the basis of the length of the administrative deadline. Furthermore, the nuclear monitoring body will be given the opportunity to combine several ongoing procedures for joint decision, where their subject matter is, as appropriate, interrelated and the request was submitted by the same client; of course, if it is appropriate to merge these requests. This saves time and cost. The grant clearance of municipal associations for control and information purposes is very important and, in order to develop a more effective procedure in this regard, we propose a few clarifications in order to make the rules on aid to associations even clearer. The role of the manager of the Central Nuclear Financial Fund will also be amended by submitting a plan for the use of aid for municipal associations to the Minister responsible for energy policy for approval and by clarifying the provisions on the development of government regulation. The tasks of an independent regulatory body shall be governed by law. The Agency's powers will be extended to the official tasks related to the planned extension of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, and this is essentially what links the proposals to be discussed. It is also important, of course, to emphasise that Hungary uses nuclear energy exclusively for peaceful purposes, provided by the official authorisation to comply with safety requirements and by continuous, very strict monitoring and supervision. The development of social and economic transformations in the world and in Hungary, as well as international expectations for the safety of nuclear energy use, calls for the modernisation of the relevant legislation, and because we need nuclear energy to guarantee the increased energy demand in Hungary at a safe and affordable price, I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill and the proposal for a resolution. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-11-10-2	Thank you very much, Attila Steiner, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Gyula Siberényi, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-11-10-3	Mr President, Dear Parliament, As stated in the general justification of the bill before this House, the CXVI of 1996 on nuclear energy has become necessary on the basis of the experience of law enforcement over the past period. Clarifying and supplementing the provisions of the Act, which will allow for more effective implementation of the procedures of the nuclear monitoring body, and will also ensure consistency between the law and the regulations ensuring its implementation. [[9.20]] The draft intends to amend certain legislative provisions on aid to associations of local governments for control and information purposes and to clarify certain international conventions in view of the change in the status of the National Atomic Energy Office. Following this amendment, the Government shall, together with the OAH, ensure the ratification of the conventions. Over the past years, the OAH has received new powers, and the number of tasks has increased greatly. He now supervises more than 4,000 licensees, issues 1500 permits and carries out over a thousand on-the-spot inspections each year. An important international requirement for the safe use of nuclear energy is that the authority responsible for nuclear safety is independent of the interests of producers, owners and service providers. The full and timely completion of the priority tasks of the Paks enlargement process has made it necessary to review the OAH legislation and to strengthen the authority. As a result, as of 1 January 2022, the OAH is a self-regulatory body, its transformation guarantees the operation of an independent, human and financial resources, an efficient and independent regulatory and supervisory authority in the performance of its tasks, over which Parliament will ensure the highest supervision. The transformation combines the benefits of the previous organisational structure with the opportunities provided for in the new legal status. This will create a strong, fast and efficient regulatory authority, which will carry out its tasks with appropriate competence, resources and autonomy, preserving its former strict professional independence. In the performance of its tasks, the OAH is subject solely to the law, cannot be ordered in its function, performing its tasks separately from other bodies, without any influence. The planned additional sectoral procedural rules for official authorisation procedures guarantee the effective performance of the OAH. Its main task is to ensure the safe use of nuclear power in Hungary, so that the full fulfilment of the nuclear safety requirements remains a top priority in the authorisation procedures for new blocks. The draft law contains several detailed rules, which primarily serve the safety of the activities and objects covered by the law. For example, the provision which provides for the possibility, in order to ensure the safety of nuclear and radioactive waste storage facilities, to allow other nuclear installations and holders of radioactive waste that are involved in the activities subject to authorisation within their security zone to learn about the activities potentially affecting their installation and the business secrets associated with it. However, we must decide not only on a bill but also on a proposal for a resolution. The Paks Nuclear Power Plant blocks were designed for 30 years of operation. The reactor block of four, originally 440 megawatts, started operating between 1982 and 1987. Thanks to the changes made in the early 2000s, the performance of the blocks even exceeded 500 megawatts each today. MVM Paks Nuclear Power Plant Ltd. has been developing security, competitiveness and sustainability since the start of the nuclear power plant. Thanks to the successful completion of the operating time extension, the Paks Nuclear Power Plant continues to operate with four blocks with more than 2000 megawatts built-in power. The extended operating licence for the blocks expires between 2032 and 2037. According to the current permit, each block may operate and participate in electricity production for another 20 years beyond the planned 30-year operating period. The 1996 CXVI on nuclear energy. Act No. 7 § 2 of the Act requires the Parliament's prior consent in principle to start a preparatory activity for the construction of a new nuclear installation or to expand the existing nuclear power plant with a further nuclear reactor. In order to extend the operating nuclear power plant's further operating time, it is not necessary to request the Parliament's approval in principle in advance, but the Parliament has also been informed that the first extension of the operating time has been initiated. The Government therefore decided to inform the Parliament in advance of the start of the project on the further extension of the Paks nuclear power plant. The Paks Nuclear Power Plant has been a pillar of the Hungarian electricity supply for the past 40 years, even during its extended operation period. Half of the domestic production, almost 36 percent of the consumption, comes from here. High utilisation data, which are above 90%, show that nuclear power plant production is predictable and reliable. In recent years, we have covered our electricity consumption by an average of 32 percent. The key to reducing import dependency is the renewal of domestic nuclear capacities and the promotion of domestic production based on renewable resources. The development of a power plant mix based on nuclear and renewable capacities will also make a major contribution to achieving our decarbonisation objectives. In order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, the aim is to provide electricity for the highest possible share of energy use in all sectors, of course electricity from the combustion of non- fossil fuels. As a result, Hungary's electricity consumption has increased steadily in recent years. In January 2022, with 7396 megawatts, the national system load reached its highest ever measured value. At the same time, daily electricity consumption reached a new peak with 4470,9 gigawatts. In the Hungarian electricity market, net electricity consumption is expected to increase, domestic supply does not follow electricity demand. Increasing electricity consumption cannot be produced on a purely natural gas basis; stable domestic electricity production is needed. The National Clean Development Strategy, which looks forward to 2050, expects electricity consumption of 46 426 gigawatths by 2030, which is 20 percent higher than in 2020. This forecast does not include the increased electricity demand for new industrial investments. In view of this, electricity consumption is expected to increase by around 35 percent by 2030 compared to 2020. Today, the role of power plants that operate safely, as a reliable core power plant and produce energy domestically, cost-effectively. The role of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant in the energy supply is inevitable, as it is the main domestic energy producer, which provides the basis for electricity supply. Ladies and gentlemen, The legislative proposal and the proposal for a decision that we have just tabled will further strengthen Hungary's energy security, the safe use of nuclear power and the achievement of carbon neutrality as a goal. It further strengthens our efforts to put the Hungarian economy of the future on a green basis free from fossil energy and external market impacts. I ask for the support of the proposals. Thank you for your attention.
u2022-11-10-4	Thank you very much, Congressman Gyula Szeberényi. I now give the floor to Mr László Varju, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2022-11-10-5	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Well, we have come to the point where, on a quiet autumn morning, you submit your proposal, and in its introduction, you have presented a proposal to Parliament, consisting of two laws and a bill and a draft resolution. The further extension of the operating hours of the existing Paks Nuclear Power Plant is the essence of their proposal and should accordingly be discussed. After about ten minutes, the author also said that it was good, so let's get to the point of what is really in the presentation. He was always talking about something else that had nothing to do with this, so I think there are some things worth clearing up. Just because the Secretary of State has forgotten that you have a 2016 regulation that requires a preliminary and ex-post impact assessment. This law, or this rule, was made by your government, and in such an important proposal of great importance, you have not taken this opportunity. [[9.30]] I could say that their obligation would be to summarize in a preliminary impact assessment, to produce a summary of its results, to carry out an information gathering and analysis process, and its primary aim would be to increase the effectiveness of the regulation, so that all that would support your arguments would be that. They'll forget about that. Then, in fact, in his arguments, in his initial arguments, he deals with the fact that, after eight years of working on this subject, he justified your presentation with the operation and outburst of the war. Well, Mr Secretary of State, I think that there are better arguments to support this draft decision, even because I have been before as Chairman of the Committee on Budgets to invite your Minister, and you have also tried to present it, and to demonstrate the safety of several decades in the interests of the operation of Paks and the safety of the nuclear power plant. It's just a small detour in this story that, in this industry, which is a little connected to this, I spent ten years in uranium mining, of course, working from a distance at Mecsek ore mining company, and that is also part of the experience that I would like to draw up here. But I have a clear position with you that the operation of nuclear power plants is primarily a matter of nuclear safety and not a matter of security of supply, as you have said. But let us see what this proposal you have put forward here really does. The law extends the possibility of the provision of remote data to the full supervisory activities of the nuclear monitoring body, so that in future the provision of remote data will not be limited to the nuclear power plant, it will also be possible in the case of other nuclear installations and radioactive waste storage facilities. In this context, partnerships are established, linked to storage or to the planned storage, from the Central Nuclear Financial Fund, to which support may be granted. This aid may be granted as a storage or as a planned storage only to the association and may be used for information, control, operation and urban development purposes on these sites. And we could further say that the rules on aid to municipal associations are otherwise intended to be dealt with in a separate government decree, and that they have a few comments on this, but there are a lot of inaccuracies in this. On the basis of the amendment, I see that the central nuclear financial fund manager's budget for the use of subsidies of municipal associations, together with the preliminary position of the committee, should be submitted to the Minister responsible for energy policy for approval, so the Minister will actually approve it, even if it is changing, but still remain in this responsibility. This proposal simplifies the procedures, which I consider to be welcome in this respect and creates the possibility of unifying individual procedures. This unification process may take place if there are, by the way, several procedures before the nuclear monitoring body which are related to each other, and it is appropriate to decide together. I think that this is the right approach. The existence of a material relationship, the need to unite, can only be determined on the basis of the particularities of individual cases, but I welcome that we are talking about the administration, those who otherwise have the most information. On one side, this proposal, which concerns the bill, is in favour of the proposal for a resolution, for which the government announced on 13 July and referred to the gas crisis, which I find unacceptable in this respect to initiate an extension of the Paks nuclear power plant's operating time, is, in this respect, unacceptable; it is clear that this would be due in the mid-2030s, since the duration of the permits for reactors expires between 2032 and 37 so that the extension cannot have a meaningful impact on the current crisis, so this reference is false. However, the environmental impact assessment to be carried out internationally, not by the government, but also by the public at large, for the extension of the operating time, which I have missed after the procedure and further authorisations, may be decided by the National Atomic Energy Office from the point of view of nuclear safety, as you mentioned, on the basis of the application for authorisation of the nuclear power plant. According to the text of the resolution proposal, the Parliament notes the further extension of the existing block of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, which also serves the country's energy sovereignty, climate protection and security of supply, and, in this respect, the Democratic Coalition does so and supports it in the case of the Paks extension. But this should only be done if it is proven technically that there is no safety risk, the appropriate professional preparation takes place, the documents are made public, and they provide access to civil society organisations and otherwise their participation. Since an incompetent party soldier has been appointed to run the Hungarian Atomic Energy Office, we only consider this acceptable under the supervision of the International Atomic Energy Agency. You have created an emergency situation in the security of energy supply, which is why nuclear energy cannot yet be driven out, as the Orbán government has only taken substantial steps late towards renewable energy, the potential risks of which would otherwise be much lower, and so it is appropriate to talk about the continuation you have imagined, as you have concluded a long-term contract with Paks II in addition to extending the operating hours of the four blocks. construction. If you wanted to talk seriously about Paks with society, you would not have written out the continuation of the use of nuclear power with Russia, without a referendum, a serious credit agreement from which, according to the news, you have encrypted it after 180 days of debate, practically the Russian party could have paid the entire loan if the country, Hungary, wanted to quit sooner. In such a situation, you have, in your own admission, created an emergency situation, as one of your ministers, Minister Szijjártó, said, has done nothing for eight years, and the worst of that is the fact that in the case of energy investments which would make alternative opportunities, you have only been idle. [[9.40]] That is why I can only really say it in the light of geopolitical risks, and I also ask Mr Secretary of State that Paks' case was indeed linked to the definition of gas prices when the treaty was negotiated. And if so, why did they do so? Because, in my reading, there may be a link between your policy of liability, which, in this respect, can be understood why you made this decision in 2014 when the treaty was concluded. I myself continue to say that Paks II must also be treated as a policy issue, even if this treaty, which you have concluded, is unacceptable. However, the impact of this is not only on Hungary, but it is obviously also related to the neighbouring countries, but I think that what you think or why we should talk about it in this regard can also be justified here in relation to the draft law and the extension of the operational time, I think. Under your governance, I see no economic growth, no recovery that has been forced without public investment, so if we take these out of it, after the transitional period, the energy demand that you have listed here would not be replaceable without the construction of another nuclear power plant. There is indeed a possibility for this, because it is cheaper and otherwise environmentally friendly energy that can bring about this solution, and as you know, unused energy is the cheapest energy. In renewable energies, and especially among them, geothermal energies, there are special opportunities in our country, and after the waste of the last ten years, you have neglected this area. I find their recent rush in this regard to have been delayed, since a decade has been lost here. To sum up, therefore, we support the proposal for a resolution in the context of your proposals, which you have produced, but you must bear the responsibility for the consequences of the irresponsibleness of the ten years wasted. I hope that Hungary will have a government that will otherwise take steps to take further steps or new steps to promote renewable energies and new initiatives. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2022-11-10-6	Thank you, Congressman László Varju. I now give the floor to Mr András Aradszki, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2022-11-10-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, There are two main elements of the agenda that we are discussing, one of which is a proposal for a resolution that the Parliament should contribute in principle to extending the operating hours of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant's currently operating blocks for another 20 years. The other part of this regulation, this proposal, is the proposal to amend the Nuclear Power Act and the Ancillary Laws. Let us start with what it is about and why this proposal for a resolution has come before this House, which proposes that the House take note of the approval of the extension of the Paks nuclear power plant's operating time. This is mainly because it has become apparent in recent years that Hungary's electricity demand has increased significantly and gradually. Among the reasons for this was the fact that the development of the Hungarian economy and the increase in Hungarian investments significantly increased the demand for electricity and raised security of supply issues from energy producers and energy policy. It is also an important element of this process that the government has made the right decision to provide 90 percent of energy production from carbon neutral sources by 2050, so it will direct the Hungarian energy industry to the path of safe and clean energy production. It is essential to maintain the capacity of the nuclear power plant and Paks II. building new capacities and putting them in the system. There is no doubt about it, and we are now talking about facts that in Hungary, solar energy and solar energy have achieved a kind of recovery. Here, the industry has already taken huge steps to develop a major security of supply factor for renewable energy in addition to an appropriate core power grid and to ensure the achievement of the objective of carbon-neutral energy production by 2050. This will be an important step and an important tool and could be the construction of the existing blocks of the nuclear power plant. This was already studied at the time of the previous extension, and it was also examined that the extension of the period from 2032 to 37 is actually a 20-year extension, which is the maximum of this nuclear power plant delivered in the early 1980s, or it is possible to consider an additional extension. Even then, experts said that equipment could actually operate for up to 50 years, and on the basis of such professional bases it can be said that the proposal for a decision before us is also a necessary step on the part of energy policy, with due professional support, with due consideration and with a view to ensuring security of energy supply. I must also add what we may consider insignificant, but there was a nuclear disaster in Fukushima, which resulted in significant safety standards and security investments for nuclear power plants in the world. With Hungarian investments under the supervision of the International Atomic Energy Agency, the nuclear power plant Paks implemented this on all four blocks, so now we are not talking about the nuclear power station blocks from the point of view of safety as before Fukushima, but we are talking about much safer, more satisfying and reassuring technology systems and security systems supporting the operation of the nuclear power plant. So, if we take this into account, and we also appreciate the position of professional studies, it is obvious that, in order to meet the growing energy demand from the purest possible source, the country needs well-functioning nuclear power plants in Paks II. I don't know, I don't know, I don't know. Therefore, the fact that this extension will take place is extremely important for the security of the country's energy supply. Of course, the regrettable fact that we have had a war in our neighbourhood, which has completely disrupted the energy market, the security of energy supplies and international relations, adds to the validity of this decision. [[9.50]] In fact, it has been concluded that the government, acting carefully and responsibly, is now ensuring that the security of energy supply in a given country is provided as much as possible through modern, well-functioning and purely producing power plants, through its own power plants. At the moment, Hungary's electricity imports account for about 30 percent, so 30% of the use is made of imports. The Hungarian government has implemented the necessary cross-border capacities in the last ten years towards Slovakia and now towards Slovenia. Thus, the lack or lack of cross-border capacities is not an obstacle to imports, but imports are a risk. It is a risk that, if and in the case of a difficulty in the exporting country, an energy supply emergency occurs or other market conditions determine it, for example, there is a greater need for energy than there is a need for export capacity, then the security of energy supply in the importing country is seriously affected, i.e. it suffers from a deficiency. It is therefore the certainty that we produce ourselves, and it is certain that this production can be done much more efficiently and cheaper with the existing instruments. Many people are debating the need for nuclear energy, although these contradictions are becoming increasingly low on European level, but I must add that every country has a specific situation in terms of energy security. Austria cannot be compared with Hungary because Austria has a hydroelectric power plant capacity of 64 per cent of its energy production, which can better and greener offset the surge in the energy production of weather-dependent energy sources. We do not have such hydropower capacity, so we are forced and need to resolve the installation of clean, carbon-free energy sources and the provision of the necessary base power plant, which in this case applies to Paks, which Paks can ensure in large quantities, at cheap prices and continuously, and in addition to the expansion of Paks, the extension of the operating time can also contribute to this. In view of the importance of the matter and the energy policy challenges, the government has done the right thing by not having to bring this proposal before the House, discussing this extension of the time, but rightly because the security of energy supply in Hungary is in a serious, critical and difficult situation, on the one hand, and on the other hand, this is an important thing that determines the security of energy supply in Hungary in the long term, and we have taken a good example from 2005 when the government at the time brought the extension of the operational time of the Paks power plant to Parliament and the then representatives discussed it here and supported the completion of this extension. I am very pleased to hear the position of the DK Member that DK is in favour of extending the working time. Another important part of the proposal is the amendment of the Nuclear Power Act. There are technical amendments in this and there are some that are important in some respects. I consider it important to highlight an addition to the system of support from the Central Nuclear Financial Fund. As a matter of fact, it is not a transformation, but an addition, because so far these associations, created in the vicinity of the so-called nuclear waste sites, have been designed by these associations to carry out control and information tasks on the amounts received from the Nuclear Financial Fund, to explain to those living there what is the situation with the storage facility there. Moreover, it is always a problem that these municipalities would prefer to spend funds from this fund in order to improve their own assets and their operations. This can be done by the new amendment, so that the funds of the Fund can also be accounted for for for as a stockpiling and operating aid. As I recall, these were always open to municipal mayors, local leaders, and they always asked for support from the Central Nuclear Financial Fund for this purpose. This difficulty is resolved by this new bill and it establishes a system that can be monitored and rationalised in order to ensure that these amounts of aid are used for purposes that are consistent with other objectives, including other requirements, as set out in the construction regulations and construction policy. I think it is very right that the legislation lays down a deadline for the National Atomic Energy Agency to complete the first deficit. This makes the procedure more predictable, and it is not possible to delay for no reason, but they have a legal obligation to submit or hand over the first deficiency to the applicant, depending on the period to be used for the procedure. This is also important from a legal certainty point of view, and it cannot be unduly delayed to proceed with a procedure. Overall, I can say that it is justified to adopt this decision; it is an important step, both in terms of energy policy and security of supply, and in order to achieve climate policy objectives, to extend the operational time of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, and the adoption of the proposals amending the Nuclear Power Act will also help to achieve energy policy objectives that will enable a secure nuclear power plant to develop and operate further, so that the Christian Democratic People's Party supports the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-10-8	Thank you very much, Congressman András Aradski. I now give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2022-11-10-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The last thing we remember about this bill is that a liar is caught before a lame dog. In the last five years, we have asked several written questions to the Hungarian government about why the Orbán government, the Fidesz government, has not examined the possibility of extending the service time of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant Unit I. In fact, according to literature, new power plants are now planned for 60 years, even 80 years, and not in one case even 50 years of operation can be technically resolved to be extended. This was reported by experts from the energy market, MVM Zrt. His former CEO, Paks I., could operate without a problem until 2047 and provide the 12 HUF kilowattor per kilowattor, which he still provides today. Besides, there wouldn't have been any reason to rush Paks II. [[10.00]] Now imagine that that stupid response came every single time from the government, and I quote, that is why you are not investigating what you are discussing here today, and you are arguing how good it is, because:, the legislation in force does not give you the opportunity to do so. Really, fellow Members? Are you saying that you can't solve something because the legislation in force doesn't give you the opportunity to destroy complete industries in one day or two with your one-day legislative procedures? ! Who, say, were able to take the $3,000 billion private pension money away from people with a pen stroke? ! They would also have been hindered by the legislation in force. It is quite amazing, cynical and lying, but obviously that is not only the problem, but the Hungarian people are paying for the consequences of this now and in the future. It was also said here in the Expo that the first decision of the Parliament was made in 2005 to allow the extension of the Paks I blocks that are now in operation. Yes, my fellow Members, during that damn time, under the bloody socialist governments, there was a foresight on this issue. I just want to tell you that if this doesn't happen, the Paks nuclear power plant is no longer working. And these wonderful words that you're about to tell us about how important nuclear power is and how cheap and how good it is, we shouldn't have talked about it at all, because we should have closed these power plants by now. And we're not far from that, because, if I remember correctly, between 32-37 and 32-37, it should be closed at the current state, as well, according to the extended operating time, so it is absolutely justified that we talk about this here anyway. You've wasted five years again since the first written question, but otherwise we can say eight to ten years at least on this issue. One or two facts about the operation of Paks I, which is why we also support the extension of operational time. Paks I. blocks have been paid off for nearly 40 years. Paks I. produces a quarter more electricity than the Hungarian population consumes in a year, and precisely because this plant is already out of amortization, to date, but in recent years the power plant sells its kilowatt hour at a net price of 11-12 forints, and in addition, the plant produces a profit of 10-15 billion a year. This is because, ladies and gentlemen, indeed, the electricity produced by the Paks Nuclear Power Plant has nothing to do with the world market price, and inflation is not affected in this respect, however, it is able to deliver this performance, and otherwise the retail price of HUF 36,6 per kilowatt is comfortable, even the system usage charges and the tax, which our generous government continues to hold at 27 percent. I would like to stop here and ask you once again, tell us, not us, the people, why they give this 12-forint electricity to people for 70 and why they give it to municipalities for 300. These companies are not companies, they provide services to Hungarian people and close public institutions, public education institutions, we have been through the closure of kindergartens and crèches, and the news of this can be heard more and more. Why do the public have to give this electricity up to 6-7 times and the municipalities 20-25 times? I have already told you, when the Prime Minister was here in the hour of immediate questioning, although for exactly some mysterious reason, he did not answer my question that, along with the power plant of Mátra, the electricity produced here in Hungary at 12 and 24 forints a kilowatt, almost twice the demand of the population is produced here in the country, then why do you have to give electricity to people for 70 forints, and I ask again why you have to sign a contract with municipalities for 250-300 forints? Not to mention Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises and civil society organisations, which, by the way, are also being destroyed by this, which you are doing, pointing out completely unduly and lyingly any sanctions or international processes. I mean, you guys told me, this is where we listened to the lead speaker of Fidesz and the KDNP, that this, regardless of anyone, makes the electricity for that kind of money. You fool people and collect multiples of this money. Finally, obviously, the extension of Paks I's operating time should not be confused with the Paks II investment, which we cannot label and judge in any other way than a time bomb with an Orbán-Putin pact, which is also timed from an economic policy, geopolitical and national security point of view. Ladies and gentlemen, In 2009, the Parliament at that time accepted the agreement in principle for the construction of the new power plant, precisely because it could be calculated that the Paks I. had to be closed sooner or later. But this policy license wasn't about what you guys did to go out to Moscow without social consultation, political consultation, and open tender, and get pooped with Vladimir Putin and Russia. [[To Attila Steiner:]] Don't smile, Mr. Secretary, because there's nothing funny about it, because there's nothing. I understand, I can see on your face that many of you are bringing home billions of them, this smug smile on your face, but regardless, there was no basis for this, and besides the fact that hundreds of billions of forints have been squandered for preparation, it still doesn't make any sense, because there wasn't a hoof cut there. I don't know what you're looking at and what you're not, and I understand that Péter Szijjártó says as a daily water level report that Paks II. not built, my fellow Members, no cutting of a hoe. Some of the halls of the service buildings were raised, but the workers, Hungarians and foreigners were not paid there either. By the way, Ukrainian and Russian migrant workers are standing in the mountains. What are you talking about, this smug smile, Mr. Secretary of State, about the Paks II investment? ! I think they should be ashamed of themselves in that regard. And after that, you guys, I'll tell you again, made a deal with the Russians without applying. By the way, the contract was signed with a higher interest rate, which was shown how good it was than that damn IMF loan, which led to the previous government being told everything, and for decades all Hungarians will repay it in a thousand billion-dollar order, even if the power plant is not built, because, I repeat, hundreds of billions of dollars of this money have already been thrown out of preparation, which makes no sense at all. Ladies and gentlemen, Speaking of... yeah, the plan was to select the cheapest and best offer in an international tender in accordance with our geopolitical and national security interests. Obviously, that's what you've been jumping over, and like I said, you've just had sex with the Russians. From a geopolitical and national security point of view, it is quite clear that after the war launched by the Russians in our neighbourhood, which is storming Ukraine, this alone should prepare the government to consider taking this country further in this direction and linking our country to Russia for all aspects, economic and security of supply for the next 80 years. Fellow Members! However, you know that the Russian leadership, at least the current one, considers Ukraine to be the territory of Russia, which is why it started with a weapon, and considers the Central European region as its former colony, as well as us. If this weren't clear, Putin talked about this more than once years ago on an international stage. In a situation like this, to say that it's trilla, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's gonna be okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, we's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, we's okay, it's okay, we's okay, we's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's So we're saying what we've always said is that Paks II. Your contract with the Russians must be terminated, we need a social consultation, we need a referendum on the fact that we really want to continue to use nuclear energy II, I would add, I think there are arguments for it, so I am not questioning nuclear energy itself, and if they are all there, then an international tender must choose an investor that, in the long term, can provide proper operating conditions for the security of the country. So we support the extension of Paks I.'s operating time, not Paks II in its present form, and we expect the government to provide the 12 HUF Paks electricity at 12 HUF plus the necessary costs as a state for its citizens and local governments, and do not profit in the Hungarian people, and do not destroy the local governments and public services with what it is doing right now. [[10.10]] Returning to Paks II with a sentence: this is precisely the extension of the operating time, which will make sure that Paks I can operate until the '50s, if it succeeds from a technological point of view, it will give this country enough time to think about the very important and serious issues I have told you, and if you do choose the new nuclear power plant, you will resolve it in a normal timetable with technology within our Allied system. If anyone has doubts about, say, the Russian's interest in the fact that the nuclear power plants he or she operates are in the territory of a country, please see what they are doing in Ukraine in this area. Obviously, this will not mean any security or protection if you do not give, God, the medicine of those who make these decisions will go even further. Finally, what goes on here, ladies and gentlemen, before we get to personalizing, I learned one thing because I was a member of the board of directors of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, and then, let's say, János Süli called the CEO and József Pónya the Chairman of the Board of Directors. They were both exclusively professionals working in the power plant, with decades of experience in this area, and I even think they had an international reputation. Nuclear power is not a game! The use of nuclear power, the operation of the power plant or the investment of a new power plant, and business interests, have no place to be. The Paks II. And the exchange of CEOs to put an eximbank CEO there to speed up events is a major scare to us, who are actually benefiting from this investment as Tolna County, Paks, Szekszárdi, but we also bear the risk, because if something happens in that power plant, it will operate in the first round and irreparably with our family members. There, only the profession and the safety of operations can be the only aspect that underpins the decisions, and in this respect, I can even say recently that by leaving Süli János and replacing the Joint Chiefs, these processes are clearly in danger. Together with this, we will support the proposal for a resolution, precisely because we have been asking for it for years, but we cannot vote in favour of the bill for two points. One is that the objections of civil society organisations and professional organisations with this proposal can now be combined and decided with a pen stroke, which we do not think is right. So let's investigate each and every concern and answer properly if there is an answer. That's the same category I just said. On the other hand, we do not understand exactly who or what is interested in Paks I, Paks II. the trade secret agreement between the two parties, so to speak. As long as these two are involved, we cannot vote in favour of the bill, and we will, of course, vote in favour of the resolution proposal. Please at least think about what I said. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-11-10-10	Thank you very much, Congressman Tamás Bellozó. I now give the floor to Congressman Ferenc Gelencsér, the lead speaker of the Group of the Momentum.
u2022-11-10-11	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Speaker, Dear House, There are very few cases in Hungary today in which Momentum can agree with the government's position. This situation, of course, is not independent of the betrayals that the former Association of Young Democrats has been through, from liberal self-defining through civil to conservative, Christian-conservative or now Eurosceptical, nor is it independent of the fact that you have gone from your Western allies to Russian autocrat patterns and the bowing to Communist China. There are still a few questions that we can agree on with the government. For example, Momentum recognises that the Paks Nuclear Power Plant plays a key role in Hungary's long-term electricity supply. Since the Momentum was founded, it has represented the fact that nuclear energy is currently needed in the domestic energy mix. In our view, until there is a specific technical, energy security or environmental reason, it is necessary to extend the operating time of the existing blocks of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. At this point, however, I would like to draw attention to the fact that Imre Martha, former CEO of MVM, called for the extension of Paks I.'s operating time by letter to János Süli, Minister for Paks' expansion in autumn 2018. Then you're Paks II. Trusting in its rapid construction, this step has been delayed, but it is welcome that today it has been acknowledged that the extension of the operating time is an inevitable step. By the way, they also admitted that Paks II would no longer be built this decade. In his letter to János Mártha Imre Süli, he also wrote with serious arguments why it is problematic and extremely beneficial for us Hungarians, based on the Orbán-Putin pact, to make the planned Paks II investment based on Russian giga credit and basically Russian technology. In 2014, without any social debate, Viktor Orbán committed our country to Putin, thinking about rebuilding the empire, and not necessarily to Rosatom's technology, without a tender, i.e. without international competition. Moreover, this is a EUR 12.5 billion project we are talking about. It's almost an incomprehensible number. To think, we need to multiply EUR 12.5 billion at today's price by HUF 405-410, sometimes HUF 440, depending on what György Matolcsy says to see the amount of this investment. That's over 5,000 billion forints. What's the Fidesz premium, I'll ask if it's not this. In addition, Viktor Orbán agreed behind closed doors at Putin to make this huge investment on Russian credit. I'm asking you, you know what that means. This means that Viktor Orbán has pawned our country for decades in 2014. This is a classified case of future survival. With this treaty, Viktor Orbán and the governments led by Fidesz have made future generations fatally indebted and vulnerable to Russia. The fact that this is a completed fact or not depends only on your willingness to review this fatal decision within a reasonable time and to lead our country out of this trap in a foreseeable time. According to experts who are independent of the government, the provisions of the treaty we have learned so far do not take into account the interests of the Hungarian people. The former MVM leader directly states that the pile of contracts with my Rosata became a Russian dictatorship. The permits are still not fully in order. It is worth noting here that in the case of the brother project also planned by Rosatom in Finland, there were a thousand problems with planning processes and official procedures. Finally, the Finnish, not regardless of the war launched by the Russians, in May this year the contract was terminated on the grounds of the unreliability of Rosatom's subsidiary. In Hungary, in the eight years since 2014 it has not been possible to prepare plans of a quality that can be approved in a European Union-class procedure. It may not be independent of this: you are changing the domestic regulation on nuclear energy on several points in order for the government to simplify and speed up Paks II. the authorisation procedure. We urge you to be cautious, nuclear power, as has been said before, is not a toy, especially in Russian hands. You, in your proposal, will further strengthen the conditions for understanding business secrets. This is not unusual for you, but unacceptable for the Momentum. We support the extension of Paks I. for another ten years, but not the proposals that have just been highlighted and challenged. I would like to stress that the Paks I reactors are expected to be operational by 2042-2047 with the extension of operational time. This is another reason not to build Paks II on Russian credit, Russian mode, because parallel operation and extended Paks I are not justified, and by 2024 the country's energy mix should be completely transformed into renewable energy sources. [[10.20]] Based on the agreement between Vladimir Putin and Viktor Orbán, Paks II. The construction of the Momentum is in the view that it is contrary to the interests of our country, the highly advantageless Paks II agreement is now clearly the most important instrument of Russian influence. This project serves aggressive Russian geopolitical goals and further strengthens the exposure and vulnerability of the Hungarian government and future Hungarian governments to Moscow. This project is critical from a transparency point of view and is nothing more than treason. This agreement is a waiver of the sovereignty of our country, which you talk about so much, both in financial, energy security and foreign policy. If this project is implemented, it will complete the pawning of our country thanks to the Good Lord, who is expanding or trying to expand, little successfully to the Russian Empire; it will not weaken, but strengthen, our Russian nuclear dependency in the field of energy, and together, this is a very serious national security risk. Ladies and gentlemen, It's time to face all this. Instead of trying to block Finland's accession to NATO through sly techniques, I think we should finally sit down with them and seek advice to terminate the Rosatom Treaty as soon as possible. I believe that the sooner we get out of Putin's nuclear addiction and lending trap, the cheaper we get out of this adventure. Thank you. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-11-10-12	Thank you very much, Congressman Ferenc Gelencsér. I now give the floor to Mr János Bencze, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2022-11-10-13	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, This is a proposal for a resolution and a bill that we have ahead of us. The proposal for a resolution is an easy one. I live in the area, I'm the parliamentary representative of the district where Paks is located, that's our headquarters, that's our headquarters, we know the nuclear power plant closely, and Jobbik and I are committed to nuclear power. Paks I. is the only plant in Tolna County that has survived the change of regime and has continued to operate unbrokenly and provides a kind of prosperity for a small region. So far, we've only known and know the positive effects of nuclear power by the power plant, so it's been good for us. It is true what Tamás Harangozó said: there is a place to live to learn about its downsides. We have the first Monday of every month, just in case, sirens. We've learned to live with it, but we know that we live near a plant that has dangers, and now it's going to matter to Paks II. Paks I. has provided us with a vision, visible development and a kind of prosperity in Paks. So he set up a regional center, which is due to the plans, the vision and continuity of those who are ahead of us. We certainly support the need for nuclear energy; and we need to extend Paks I.'s operating time, only that will ensure Hungary's energy security in the future, at least in part, as long as this power plant is able to produce. And it provides jobs in our neighborhood. So we don't have any problem with that. But the Paks II thing. Paks II. It's a set of questions, Paks II. as it began and as it continued. At Paks II, it's very difficult to make the right decision because Paks II. It's a set of encryptions. About a classified substance whose effects we don't know, we don't know how to continue, how to make a decision? How do we ensure that we can say to the voters that we have made the right decision? I very much doubt that the Fidesz Members sitting in front of me can ensure this, and you do not know it. Several things have been said here all along by Paks II. around, and I feel that the bill itself is about Paks II, that we need to make it easier, speed up the licensing procedure, that Paks II. You need to build it faster. We can see Paks II. The downside. Let's start with what Paks II brought. to the region. For the first time, we celebrated, stood up for it, and to this day we still stand up for the need for at least one more nuclear power plant for Hungary, if we are to give the country energy security, but it doesn't matter who is building it and how it is built it. I am now telling you what Paks II has brought from the perspective of the Paksians, from the perspective of the average voters living there, and from the perspective of the people around it. Unconsciously high real estate prices. The average man in Paks is unable to buy real estate in Paks, because speculators and stromans have driven everything up into the sky. So far, he hasn't brought anything good because he hasn't brought jobs. The locals say it's achieved seven years of delay in eight years. The Paks II. According to the first data, power plant blocks should have been produced in 2025-26, electricity should have been supplied to the country, construction should have given jobs to those arriving in the region, should have brought prosperity to the people living in the region, instead brought uncertainty. There are a few million sides of the Paks II investment that are beginning to affect the region negatively. And it's because of your stooges. Here is the example of Madocsa. It has also been said in Parliament, and it is also said daily out there, because the stromones are moving in the background and they want to open a quarry for Paks. In other words, they want to mine half the border of the village. It's called destruction of settlements. We will also ask in writing what is happening in Madocsa. If it's Paks II. will it be built in any way, can Madocsa expect to destroy her agricultural land, even as a priority investment? Because the law gives you the opportunity. That would be a sort of acceleration. Which is the biggest question for me here, and several people have already indicated that Paks II has been led by a team of professionals. And I got hit by a sentence that was unduly delayed. I beg you, what does that mean in a nuclear power plant? What do you mean, "unreasonably gone"? Doesn't the Strokeman have any use for him? Can't you build? What do you want to build? What he wants or what the rules say? It should also be added that in all positions, in key positions, your people are sitting in Hungary, which has been achieved in 12 years. I'll tell you what this one-eye sentence means in our eyes. Paks II, and to experience this, the stromans, politics and corruption fought with professionals. Professionals were in the way, resigned, removed, left with the first three players, so they remained stromones, political interests and concentrated corruption itself. But that's what others have indicated. This is gonna be a dangerous game. Because we want to build a nuclear power plant, it's a nuclear safety issue, and it's not in the best interest of the trombones, it can't be made easier for them to do. What are they gonna say? Look, Bandi, did it pop? Or what? How will they justify it if it's ruined? I know that nuclear energy specialists reassured me, there are two versions: either it won't work if it's too easy or it'll never be built. But a never-built Paks II. The nuclear power plant will be the second Bős-Nagymarosa of Hungary, which will be paid by the population for decades, but if they have failed well, it will also be for a century. What do you want to do? Because we see Paks II. It became Luca's nuclear chair, it's built, it's made on paper, but if anyone goes there I've been there, there's actually a fence, there's a service building, there's no sign of a nuclear power plant. According to experts, there was such an idea here at the easing, it appeared on the news, opening the work pit to the groundwater level. So? What's next? How do they finish? What's gonna happen? All the experts we've asked you to be the deep construction engineer, be the nuclear power plant expert, you said that this is an impossible idea, it's about one thing to finally pay off the Fidesz entrepreneurs at the expense of the population. The big stinking nothing, in English, excuse me. Here, as we watched, what did they replace the Paks II lead? Banker, political scientist, football team owner. If we weren't in the National Assembly and I wasn't living in Tolna County, then if I read this in a text that professionals are being replaced by these, let's call it, professionals, I couldn't decide whether this novel was written by István Örkény or those sentences came from Monty Python. This is, in fact, an inexplicable thing for us to do to get the professionals out of there. I don't know what to say. And in the end, there's one more thing that's kind of hit us in the eye, who's gonna build Paks II. We all see and know that this direction of the Paks II is that Russians are building it on Russian credit, it hasn't led to anything in eight years. You know, in the nuclear world, you hear there's a back-up meeting going on, and I have a parallel, and I'd like to ask you, is there any chance that the Russians aren't building it, but the French? The draft law we have before us shows French parallels to the provision of data, with all the others being submitted recently in France, presenting the brother of this. So I ask the question, is there any chance that French investors will build Paks II, even in the context of a European political deal, and then we call Hungary somehow pulled out of the trap by the French in the mind of such a business. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]] [[10.30]]
u2022-11-10-14	Thank you very much, Mr János Bencze. I now give the floor to Ms Rebecca Szabó, the lead speaker of the Group of Dialogue.
u2022-11-10-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The thing is, although I say this with some irony, obviously, that I do not envy Mr. Secretary of State so much and the pro-government speakers and keynote speakers, when here they had to give big speeches about how great everything is in the field of nuclear energy in Hungary and how Paks II will be. It's gonna be so nicely built, but until then, we're gonna be doing a great job of extending the Paks I blocks. I would like to say that I think you know this, but I'm sure the Secretary of State knows that the Members of Parliament are not aware, but it's obvious that Paks II is not going to be. So, as has been said several times, the Paks II investment is actually... In 2014 Viktor Orbán signed this contract with Vladimir Putin. It has also been said, and I fully agree that this was a huge mistake, even more than a mistake, a sin, because it should have been asked, for example, by a referendum for the Hungarian population; that is what the Dialogue demanded. We have also repeatedly said that we are opposed to the Paks II agreement and agreement in many respects, but nevertheless, it has been quite many years since then, and nothing has been built on Paks II. In your field, and the reason you want to extend the Paks I blocks now is because you see this, you know that. I'm sure it would be very embarrassing to admit this to you, so you're all talking about how it's going, how well it's going, and I don't know, and then Comrade Putin has said something encouraging about it over and over again, but you all know it's not going to happen; it's really hanging out. And since renewable energy sources have not been developed in the last 12 years for some strange reason, they are trying to rush into grass trees and extend Paks I blocks again. I just want to say this at the beginning, so that everyone can be clear about what we're talking about, because that's what we're talking about. But let's look at your suggestions a little more precisely. In general, nuclear regulation is used when they try to loosen the rules so that the Russian Rustam can be easier to authorize something that could not be built on the basis of European standards, let us say, in the territory of an EU Member State. On the other hand, they're trying to make it easier for all the groups that you're receiving, Fidesz-near oligarchs, your NER companies, to have better access to the money available for nuclear investment. That's usually the other thing that gets you involved in nuclear law, isn't it? This current bill contains both directions, plus a third, the preparation of the extension of operational time. Let us see how these show how your government thinks about nuclear safety, public money in general and Hungary's energy security and future, because, by the way, despite the fact that you said at the beginning that this proposal serves energy security, I think that this is not the case, and in the end I will also tell you how I think this should be done in Hungary. They are no longer trying to hide the fact that Rosatom is not able to submit authorisation documentation in accordance with Hungarian and EU rules. Technically, the Rosatom works as a military industrial conglomerate. He is already out of Finland because of Russian aggression, but for some reason, Viktor Orbán and his government are the only ones who are in the Ukrainian war in our neighbourhood, which is happening because of Putin's aggression Putin has aggressively invaded Ukraine, and in Hungary we are still not there, sorry, the Hungarian government, Fidesz is still there, and Viktor Orbán is still there, that the Russians are going to build a nuclear power plant for us. This in itself is an absolute absurdity in the light of the war in our neighbourhood. But anyway, Rosatom has not been able to keep up the deadlines, and the Russian bank financing the construction is on the Union's ban list. So, believe me, this is completely absurd. It is clear from this that, unfortunately, the important thing for you is that the secret agreements of the nuclear pact with Putin are somehow not damaged. This is what you are trying to achieve with all the amendments, and not what is really going to happen with Hungary's energy security. In fact, the regulation will be eased again, and the explanatory memorandum has also been written:. The application for authorisation submitted to the nuclear monitoring body, the documentation on which the application is based, is significantly larger and more complex than the authority being able to examine it in its entirety. I'd like to ask you now if this is some kind of joke. So we're not building a bus stop here or some little shack, we're building a nuclear power plant, I mean, you want to build it. If, eight years after the contract is signed, Rosatom is unable to submit documentation that is suitable for substantive consideration, then shouldn't we say good-bye to him? So they're probably not fit to build a new nuclear power plant. Or if the nuclear authority is not able to examine the substance of the documentation, then this irresponsible nuclear adventure, which has already cost us 300 billion forints, may need to be completed quickly. And Péter Szijjártó Hungarian-Soviet Minister of Friendship should not make statements that all obstacles have been removed from enlargement. Sober Hungarian people everywhere they look, see nothing but obstacles, as I have just listed here. But let's see what's going on with the spending. For months, we have seen what a serious problem it is for the government, that EU subsidies have been cut off because of the fidesz corruption on the Moon, and there is nothing to feed Lőrinc Mészáros and the other large-scale vanquishers. I wonder where resources could be found to further feed your moonyard. And they found one of the options, this Central Nuclear Financial Fund, in which part of the price of the Paks electricity is collected. At present, this fund will contain or contain less than a quarter of what Paks' decommissioning will cost by the 40th year of operation of the nuclear power plant. So anyway, this money shouldn't be funding your favors, not all kinds of Fidesz companies, but the safe disposal of high-activity radioactive waste. By the way, this is a very big task, and I'm going to talk about it at the end, so that when you're saying how clean nuclear energy is, there are two problems: one is that it's not clean from the point of view of CO2 emissions and not from the point of view of nuclear waste. That's a problem. Now in Europe, the Finns have tried to build an amazing, super-deep rock nuclear waste storage facility, but it is not yet fully finished, and there are even questions about it. So I'd like to point out that it's not that small a problem. In any case, it seems that you want to distribute this money, which is in this fund, in the Nuclear Financial Fund, to various municipal associations that would be willing to accept the nuclear cemetery. Am I really getting this right? I think there's a bit of a problem here, because the vast majority of the settlements of the country don't want a nuclear cemetery at the end of their garden, and even if they wanted to, I doubt it, certainly not something built by Lőrinc Mészáros or one of the Masters of the Orbán Courts. By the way, we saw what happened at one of the possible locations around Boda. It's been tricky for years so the neighboring population of Pécs wouldn't get involved, so maybe they'd want to live next couple of hundred thousand years near a radioactive pile of waste. And by the way, I would like to point out that people, the Pécs, the Bodas and the people in the area are really, really hurting, that they don't get the right information. By the way, they reject the landfill and are shocked to note that the Public Use Nonprofit Ltd., which manages radioactive waste, is a public asset. At the beginning of 2020, a new proposal was launched, and drillings are constantly being carried out, measurements are being made, but there is no real, meaningful dialogue with the locals, and there is an uncertainty. The way I see it, though, the people in the neighborhood are really rejecting this idea regardless of party standing. The Dialogue also rejects it, so I would like to point out that we do not consider this amendment a good idea either. Let's look at the extension of the existing nuclear power plant. I've already told you, it's an open confession to Paks II. it will never recover, because if it were to recover, there would not necessarily be a need to extend the operating time. The oldest of the old blocks will expire in 2032 according to the current rules, and this is the earliest date to which Paks II was originally established. it could have been finished, or what it could have been done, if I had started building right now, but obviously they wouldn't have started now or later. So it's actually a rabid axe handle. By the way, earlier in a study, MVM showed that Paks I and Paks II. Its long, parallel operation would be impossible anyway. So it's obvious that you're practically openly admitting to this current bill that Paks II has been completely renounced, and you're never going to build it. I say this so many times because I want the public to hear this, and I want you to see through your incredibly harsh lies that have been feeding the Hungarian people here for years. So, in fact, if I sum up, they want to relax on the authorisation procedures for nuclear investments so that they can pretend that Rosatom can actually build a nuclear power plant here. [[10.40]] I would like to start spending money on the storage of high-level radioactive waste, because because because of the money stop in Brussels, because of your corrupt operation, there is not enough money to pay to their various interest groups, and that is why they want to give ten more years to the Paks Nuclear Power Plant that was originally designed for 30 years, but has already received a 20-year extension, and otherwise there are problems, unresolved summer cooling, in connection with the climate crisis, that the Danube as a cooling water problem cannot really be dealt with. So I think this whole package is not really acceptable. So at the end of the day, I would like to say that, in fact, it would have been or would have been a solution. On the one hand, I think it is extremely important to repeat the word "energy efficiency" over and over again. So you shouldn't be talking about how much more energy this country will need, and how much more electricity we're going to need, no. You should be talking about how we can reduce the country's energy demand so that otherwise we can live safely, work, obviously the industry will work, people will feel good, but we should take steps towards energy efficiency. The Orbán government does not deal with this. He doesn't care! This is quite obvious, they did not give EU funds to renovate the apartments, they do not renovate the public buildings, I could list them for a long time, they do not deal with this. Furthermore, they do not address the development of renewable energy. It's just been banned from feeding the power from the residential solar panels into the power grid. They don't even deal with the development of wind farms. This is what would be the solution, so the energy efficiency modernisation of homes and green energy. The Dialogue is also campaigning and collecting signatures on this for a reason. All the more reason they always say nuclear energy is pure energy. It's not clean! That's what I'd like to say, by the way, that there is no pure energy. Every energy production has a price. On the one hand, there are facilities that need to be built and operated. This is natural, of course, because it is clearly necessary to carry out a cost-benefit analysis, but I would like to point out that the nuclear power plant also has carbon dioxide emissions, not in the separation of uranium, but in the construction process, during the storage and transport of fuel. There are different calculations for this, a lot of studies are about 70-110 grams of carbon dioxide/kilowatto, if you look at the entire life cycle of a nuclear power plant; that's how much carbon dioxide/kilowatto is emitted. This is about 3.5 times more than solar energy, and 13 times more than the CO2 emissions of modern wind power plants if I look at the entire life cycle of each. So don't try to sell that nuclear energy is the only sustainable and carbon neutral energy here, because that's not true. That doesn't mean, by the way, I'm signaling, and the Dialogue never said that we, say, want Paks I. to fail. We think that if we already have Paks I., then all right, let it work, let it produce electricity; I have to add that it would be good if we did have the cheap electricity. Orbán said now, I think, perhaps last Monday, that the most expensive energy in Hungary is green energy, the cheapest and the atom. This is so stupid! I don't know how a Prime Minister would say that. So, on the one hand, although Paks now produces relatively cheaply, you're giving this electricity to people at a high cost, and even more expensively to the municipalities who use it to heat crèches, kindergartens. It's an outrage in itself. But the construction cost of the nuclear power plant itself, if we look at a complete energy cycle and balance again, is much greater than the creation of renewable energy, such as geothermal, solar or wind energy. So I would like to point out that it is a huge mistake if you think that only nuclear power plants can solve Hungary's energy security and climate neutrality, because it will not. I therefore insist that instead of serving Rosatom and serving Putin, they invest in renewable energy sources and develop them, and I hope that sooner or later they will be able to replace the Paks blocks. Thank you.
u2022-11-10-16	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Rebecca Szabó. I give the floor to Mr László Toroczkai, the lead speaker of the Group of Mi Hazank.
u2022-11-10-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, This is an extremely important matter of national strategy. However, compared to this, this Parliamentary resolution proposal, this proposal consists of virtually one sentence, maximum two, which we find amazing. Literally, the National Assembly notes that the existing blocks of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant will be further extended, which will serve the country's energy sovereignty, climate protection and security of supply. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, We have more problems with that. One is that in 2020 the Paks Nuclear Power Plant issued a public procurement procedure for a feasibility study of ten years' operation extension, and in view of this, it is either picant or rather harsh that a proposal of such importance will be submitted to Parliament without any particular support, impact assessment or feasibility study. And then it doesn't even include, let's say, the duration of the extension of operational time. Therefore, we could adopt a declaration or even a proposal for a resolution, which would be to say that the Parliament declares its intention to extend the existing blocks of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant for a further 20 years of operation, which serves the country's energy sovereignty, climate protection and supply security objectives. Moreover, there is not much concrete in the justification for the one- or two-word proposal for a decision. By the way, what percentage of the population, according to surveys or polls, supports nuclear power plants cannot be considered as technical support. The government typically governs in an ad hoc way, and that is what this proposal shows. In recent years, over the past decade, we have heard about the need for Paks II. we believe that nuclear power plants are needed, as we believe as a national green party that we need a strategy on a hybrid energy policy, so it has renewable energy, it has green energy, and it also relies on conventional nuclear power plants in the same way as we have in recent years, as we say in Brussels, we have now found out that there are all kinds of midwives that would have driven nuclear energy out of various energy sources and opportunities. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Practically five years ago, you could see where this would lead. It is a good thing the war in Ukraine came in handy, and it is now clear that the energy crisis is solely due to the war in Ukraine. In fact, the faulty, extreme climate policy and energy policy are also the reason why they have tried to generate constant energy, say, from renewable energy or even from wind energy, while we know that this is impossible. Nuclear power plants are therefore needed, which, in addition to appropriate safety requirements and standards, should be said to be climate-friendly and environmentally friendly; but not in the way the government is dealing with this issue. After all, while Paks II was needed, since Paks I. was built between 1982 and 1987, the originally planned operating time expired, while we can see that Paks II is not progressing, it is slipping for some reason, and what is particularly outrageous and outrageous is that the government is constantly encrypting the contract and almost everything about Paks II, so public opinion cannot even know details about the financial conditions, the loan or what is the main reason for this amazing delay or delay. We have to say that this justifies the extension of operational time. Nor does the reasoning in this proposal make any reference to this either. If it's Paks II. It would work if Paks II. would produce, then obviously there would be no need for a risky extension of operational time. I say that it is risky, because although it is stated in the explanatory memorandum that many international examples show that there are examples of the extension of operational time in other countries, but this alone does not reassure us Hungarians here. So we are not interested in the United States or Russia, we are interested in Hungary, and obviously we are interested in the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. However, if there is a need to extend the operating time, it would be very important to add that it can only be supported if nuclear safety is not in any way compromised. [[10.50]] From this point of view, although we trust the Hungarian experts, and we will therefore vote in favour of this proposal for a resolution, we can support it, but only on the condition that the government finally starts planning seriously instead of ad hoc governance, and decides that it will now be Paks II. Either it's Paks III, or we want to extend the operating hours for another hundred years. Therefore, the issue of nuclear safety cannot be avoided, and it is very important in this respect that although the general justification of the proposal for a decision includes a relatively detailed description of current international practice, as I mentioned earlier, but contains a number of conditions and assumptions which we are obviously unable to accept on such serious issues; for example, national policy and national programme, and RHK Kft. modification of its medium- and long-term plans or extension of the temporary storage of spent cassettes in order to ensure the temporary placement of spent tapes from the Paks Nuclear Power Plant during the further period of operation. But, for example, for the further extension period, the provision of nuclear fuel can also be concluded with the prior approval of the Euratom Supply Agency, which is in question because we are talking about an organ of the European Union, which makes proposals to the European Commission. However, the provision of nuclear fuel is an essential part of this issue for further extension of operational time. And we also know that the issue of nuclear energy is now very politicised, so if, say, we cannot expect any replacements from Russia, then it is a very big question who the government is expecting in this case, or if, for political reasons, the European Commission would prevent the provision of nuclear fuel, then what will the government do? We haven't heard of this, have we? Then we should also talk about the fact that if the government wants an extension of the operating time, and indeed, if there is no Paks II, then we need this, then a very important question is also that we have not heard clear or at least acceptable answers in this regard, that we are talking about the 12 HUF/kilowatt-hour current, and we are talking about a net price, why the state is selling it as a multiple times. I mean, even if the state wants to involve private government companies in this at times, it's in the hands of the state. What is the reason for this? The municipalities, the businesses, are getting these incredibly high bills when we already have a very important nation-wide strategically high-ranking institution like the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. So we expect the government to answer, and obviously, in addition to our support, we would expect openness and transparency from the government, as I just said about Paks II. On the one hand, as regards the contract, and on the other hand, the government still owes the Hungarian public the names of those responsible for the delay and delay. As I said, the Hungarian Movement can support the resolution proposal in addition to all these criticisms, because Hungary has no other choice. But what we ask of the government is that instead of the past 12 years of failed energy policy, trickery and deception, we finally have a coherent, clear, coherent policy that shows what it actually wants. I mean, we're going to tell you what we want, we're going to want a hybrid solution, in which the government, we've just told you what failures you've made in relation to nuclear power, but for example, if you've already paid people such a huge system usage fee, you'd also improve the system so that it doesn't come up with the possibility, for example, that you're destroying a specific sector by prohibiting or at least sabotaging re-feeding solar cells, solar energy. If the government had dealt with developing the system to store energy, then the situation would be quite different now, then we would not need the 200 thousand Hungarian households who are still working to introduce solar energy into their own household with such a decision and would not discourage people from using green energy and renewable energy. This all happened because, as I said in the last 12 years, the government has not had a clear and well-tracked energy policy, but instead takes all kinds of ad hoc measures. This current proposal for a decision reflects this policy beautifully. So we ask the government to put a clear strategy to the Parliament in the future after answering our questions, where dates are included. So we know what year he wants to achieve, Paks II. when it's ready, where Paks II is, there's really been any progress in Paks II. in its case, the future of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant will be removed, or the government will be thinking over the next hundred years of operating time extensions, because it will obviously endanger nuclear safety in Hungary sooner or later. If, therefore, the government is serious about wanting energy independence, which the Hungarian Movement could very much support, let us see the work to be done, let us see that there are no ad hoc measures, let us see that nuclear safety is not threatened by anything, let us see whether Brussels or anyone else can not interfere with this, can not prevent this policy. We would also like to see the guarantees of this, and as far as possible, energy independence must be created for the sake of our sovereignty. To this end, of course, we need to stand on more feet, which may or may not be, but must be one of the legs of nuclear power plants. But once again, at a net price of 12 HUF, sell this electricity to Hungarian businesses, Hungarian people and municipalities during such a crisis. Together with all this, and in the light of this, we can therefore support this proposal for a resolution, hoping for the best and hope to get answers to our specific questions, only under such conditions, but obviously in the interests of the Hungarian people and Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-11-10-18	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. We will continue with the keynote speeches. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mr Lóránt Keresztes. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-11-10-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I really agree with the speaker before me, or with regard to issues of national strategic importance. We are talking about energy security and energy policy here, and we are talking about the issue of nuclear safety under the circumstances that, right now, a minister should have taken a seat and a minister should have made a presentation. But when we talk about such issues, we don't even know whether or not we actually have a minister in charge of this issue in the government. Yesterday, the news came out that Minister László Palkovics had resigned, and since then the government, I see that he has issued a very narrow statement that, if there is any change, the public will be informed. Well, we don't see Minister here right now, so we see that he didn't show up at work today. I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary of State, who, of course, represents Minister, that he has a boss at the moment. Is there a Minister for Energy Policy in Hungary? Is there a Minister for Nuclear Safety in Hungary?
u2022-11-10-20	Congressman, you could not have been officially informed of anything so far, so I would ask you to start talking about the energy issue, because this dialogue does not fit the subject.
u2022-11-10-21	I thank you very much for your contribution, Mr President, and I very much hope that this is on the subject of...
u2022-11-10-22	It wasn't a comment or a comment, it was a warning to you.
u2022-11-10-23	I understand, I understand, Mr President, that it is not at the moment the subject of having a minister on the subject. It's a government presentation, isn't it? But then let's see...
u2022-11-10-24	Mr. Congressman, I'm sorry, but you're saying that there's no clear information but a press release. [[Rebecca Szabó: Only?]] When this becomes concrete, I think Minister Palkovics is in office, and if that is not enough for you, he is also the Minister for Energy. Here you go.
u2022-11-10-25	Mr Speaker, I do not know how formal this can be, but this is the first official communication since yesterday's press report on the matter, and I only asked the question because it is not here at work, and this is also the job of the Minister. But let's look at the conditions under which we are talking about nuclear safety and energy policy here. In critical circumstances, we must talk about a climate crisis, a crisis in energy policy, an energy crisis, a water crisis, in the midst of these crises, which, I believe, has removed all government failures and introduced all government failures from the last 12 years that have underlined and, to say the least, demonstrate why Hungary is in such a vulnerable situation in times of crisis, in times of crisis, in terms of energy policy or, by the way, environmental policy, in terms of action on climate change. [[11.00]] I think that on this issue, and this has already been emphasised, my fellow Members have also said that clear speech cannot be avoided, transparency cannot be avoided, there is no way around getting answers to questions. Basically, you do not owe us, Mr. Secretary of State, with answers, but to the Hungarian people, so I will ask many questions in today's debate so that I would like those answers to be addressed to the Hungarian people, the Hungarian public. And I think that it will not be, nor can it be debated, that full transparency on nuclear safety is acceptable. I myself have taken steps to do this. As Chairman of the Committee on Sustainable Development, about a month or a half ago, I visited the president of the National Atomic Energy Office and asked her to give me the opportunity to ask her at a press conference, even Paks II. on the issue of nuclear cemetery, Paks I's extension of operational time, so all issues related to nuclear safety and the nuclear industry. You have given me the opportunity to do so, Madam President, and as it stands, there will be a meeting of such a committee next Monday, where Madam President will also be present. We are very confident that he will answer the questions that the Ministry or the Government cannot answer. This is also important because it can be seen that you are very hectic, so to say, it is difficult for the government to operate transparently. Here again, I am thinking of Minister Palkovics, who announced perhaps a week and a half ago that wind energy will not be further restricted by the Government of Hungary. I asked the Prime Minister last Wednesday, and he denied his own minister. So I think it is a minimum of concern that there are such strong contradictions in government communication during an energy crisis. So the Prime Minister virtually opposed his Minister for Energy Policy here at the Parliament meeting last Wednesday. I very much hope that the Secretary of State has come to this meeting with the authority to answer all the questions. However, it is also possible to ask for the floor during the debate, so there are no time limits. I think it is also important to talk about the circumstances under which we are actually having this debate, so what it really is or what the real challenges are, what the real tasks are, and what the goals are, what the goals of the Government of Hungary and the Parliament should be. I can tell you that the Green Party of LMP Hungary, as a national party, considers the safety of Hungary, the security of Hungarian people, the future of Hungarian people, the safety of our children's future to be the most important aspect, and obviously the preservation of natural resources, the viability of Hungary and the viability of the Carpathian Basin; and, of course, also energy security, which is part of our security. So here we need predictability, foresight, knowledge of circumstances and everything else to serve the nation's future in decisions on energy policy. That is why I think it is a very, very bad direction that they are talking about the current energy problems and the energy crisis in the justification of the proposal, even though we know that you have brought here the question of replacing a power plant to be shut down between 2032 and 2037. This has nothing to do with, or has nothing to do with, the current energy crisis. So the current situation is in no way Paks II. Nor can this extension of operational time provide an answer. This was the case on the part of the Secretary of State, and on the part of the pro-government, in particular the Fidesz lead speaker, on the sanctions policy, on the wrong sanctions. I think that if this is to be said, we must always, in any case, clarify that these sanctions, against which you have launched consultations, have been voted exclusively by Prime Minister Viktor Orbán on behalf of Hungary. Let us always add that if you are talking about penalties that are wrong, it is worth mentioning that the penalties that the Prime Minister has voted for are wrong. Similarly, with regard to nuclear sanctions, it is worth recalling that, not so long ago, there was a debate in the European Parliament, and there Fidesz MEPs adopted a motion for sanctions, a proposal, or it was just a recommendation from the European Parliament, which, by the way, included sanctions for the nuclear industry. This was voted by Tamás Deutsch and other Members of the European Parliament. It is also worth mentioning, if I remember correctly, what was already mentioned here in part, in one or two sentences, Mr Secretary of State mentioned the Paks II project. But let's face it, it's a perfectly clear confession to this proposal and to the last few months or perhaps the last year, that, since the issue of extension of operational time has become such a priority, it really means that you no longer believe that Paks II. It's going to be built. It is quite clear that regardless of any situation, the Paks II project is impossible here, and basically there is no such project, which the Green Party of LMP has always been very fiercely and consistently opposed, because the Russian partner you put in position without a tender has not been able to put a plan documentation on the table until today with many years' delay, which complies with the relevant Hungarian regulations. That's why we still don't have permission for Project Paks II. Although the installation permit has been issued, the very, very important elements of this safety report and whatever else have not been issued. This is a clear indication that your partners are not fit to do this job. I still have to take some time with government contradictions and self-contrasts. I would like to quote your predecessor, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Peter Kaderjak State Secretary. I have several times, seeing that the government is becoming increasingly insecure, government communication with Paks II. I asked Secretary Kaderja a clear question as to what the government thinks of the extension of operational time. In November 2020, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of State responsible for energy policy at that time, replied to me and said that this was not the government's policy; that was therefore the extension of operational time. The government's policy is to implement the Paks II project, and if you want my personal opinion, then I think that together with the Paks II project and the Paks I blocks, the lifetime extension is impossible. These are impossible to achieve, even for financial reasons, and it doesn't make sense, so the government's position is firmly that Paks II is a project, capacity maintenance, but we are not, of course, forbidding thinking about anything that someone wants to think about. So that was the position of the government's current Secretary of State for Energy Policy. A little earlier, Mr Lajos Kósa, in a debate, when I asked him about this, he said here in the Parliament in June 2019: I would only like to say that Paks II. Its construction is necessary, among other things, because the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, which today reliably accounts for 40 percent of Hungarian energy production, is already operating above its originally planned age, and obviously cannot be pushed any further. So it's not that we're building two power plants, it's that Paks II and we want to replace Paks I. Lajos Kósa said that. So, let me put it this way, if we put it very gently, there are very serious contradictions here, which on an issue such as energy policy, energy security or nuclear safety cannot be reassuring to anyone. And speaking of time extensions, this is where the issue of nuclear safety came up. I have repeatedly, in fact, asked many times in the previous cycle what is causing the many unplanned shutdowns in the current nuclear power plant blocks, and what the government can say in substance. I would like to advance that, Mr Secretary of State, you have not been in office long enough as Secretary of State, that in the previous term your predecessors could not really answer these questions. But I think that, if we are talking about such issues, and it has been said in several directions that the issue of nuclear safety is the primary aspect, and this is obviously the case, then let us say it anyway, and for the sake of the record, that, in the case of the nuclear power plant, the Paks current power plant, based on the published data published by the power plant, there have been 38 operational events that have been linked to some kind of failure. So I strongly stress that there are not planned maintenance here. My colleagues have gathered for me that in 2022 there were four such stops. On 31 July, there was a situation where the water temperature of the Danube justified the need to reload the blocks by 60 percent. On July 5th, he had to be recharged because of the malfunction of mechanical equipment. On May 21, we had to reload 50 percent for electrical defense operations. On 24 April, the first block's performance had to be debited due to electrical equipment failure. And I could go on and on for a long time. I repeat, in the last five years, 38 unforeseen operating events have forced some blocks of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant to be recharged and stopped, and so on. What can you tell me about that, Mr. Secretary? I think that if you bring the concept of extension of operational time before the Parliament, you will be prepared with these questions. The government has obviously reviewed in a responsible manner all the reports on the operational safety of the current functioning nuclear power plant, the various operational events, and has also prepared for today's meeting, Mr Secretary of State, to provide detailed information on these issues, as to what has caused all these various unforeseen shutdowns and failures. [[11.10]] Well, and then, moving on to a more general approach, which my fellow Members have been talking about, and what is also justified is that, here we are discussing not only a proposal for a resolution, but also a bill, LMP is in the fortunate position that we have always been consistent, so we do not consider nuclear energy to be cheap or unsafe or not to be green, and, for us, it is completely independent from the fact that we are now being built by Russians or Americans, so we have been consistent, we do not want to build a nuclear power plant in America, and we do not have such problems on this issue. At the same time! we cannot go past the current war conflict and go past the terrible events that we have all witnessed this year. So we stress that we do not make our general position on nuclear energy dependent on who is the realization or owner of a project, but right now, you are partner of Putini Russia, Rosatom, and, well, we have seen the shocking events that were visible in the context of the war that broke out as a result of Russian aggression, and, there, Attila Aszodi, former Secretary of State, Professor, has made very clear and hard blog posts on this, too, I would ask the Secretary of State, what is their position on this. Professor Attila Aszódi quoted very clearly in a blog post on 4 March that the General Assembly of the United Nations International Atomic Energy Agency adopted a resolution in 2009 stating that an armed attack and threat against nuclear installations for peaceful purposes constitute a violation of the principles of the United Nations Statute, international law and the Statute of the International Atomic Energy Agency. He also writes that the attack is particularly painful because Russia has been a recognised member of the international nuclear profession in recent years, there are many international nuclear organizations involved in Russian experts, Russian companies, operating in a number of international projects, preparing and implementing nuclear power plant constructions in Europe, while the rest of the nuclear power plants in Ukraine were built in Soviet times but based on Russian plans. And what you do not understand, Professor Aszódi writes, is how Russia intends to implement a nuclear power plant project in any country in the future if it does not respect basic international conventions at present. What is the master plan I quote Professor Aszodi, what is the master plan, how do you think that the population of any country will accept a Russian-built nuclear power plant in the future? And what was the master plan, how will we be able to physically protect nuclear installations if a nuclear power such as Russia does not respect the principles of nuclear safety and security? So this is also my question, Mr Secretary of State, that, in relation to this situation, which we have seen, there have been military acts here specifically concerning nuclear power plants, otherwise rockets have fallen on nuclear waste reservoirs, what is your position, by the way, in the assessment of your partner, your partner, who has put you in a position without a tender. Well, we are saying that nuclear power is not green, it is not cheap, it has already been mentioned, is it not, that Mrs Rebecca Szabó has already said this in detail, and we believe that the last block of the current nuclear power plant will work until 2037; there would be plenty of time in Hungary to take real steps to ensure Hungary's energy self-sufficiency with a real green transition, with a green energy turn, so that the natural sustainability aspects will be fully enforced. By the way, I would be stricter than some of my fellow Members before me, and we believe that the government has not taken any meaningful steps towards the expansion of renewable energy over the past few weeks, and even in the last few weeks we are seeing a very impressive backward face compared to what the government has tried to do in part, and especially what we are hearing here from Minister Palkovic's Deputy Secretary of State, Zsófia Koncz, regarding how important the Government of Hungary considers green energy to be. Well, it's the opposite of the trend, and the government still doesn't want to lift the ban on the use of wind power plants, and you can see the limits on the use of solar cells and solar energy in the general public. We therefore believe that green energy is indeed the alternative, not the construction of a new nuclear power plant, and this is the opposite trend, because if you are thinking in a new nuclear power plant, it requires a completely different system design and system transformation, so you are basically directing Hungary against the spread of green energy into such an addiction, and I add that it cannot be considered as energy self-sufficiency if we are, say, dependent on Russian fuel or any kind of fuel, so it cannot be considered as an energy source of its own. And then we have to talk here about the issues that, if we say there is Paks II, there is a time extension, then there will be a greater amount of spent fuel, high-activity radioactive waste, the final disposal of which in the current legislative environment will have to be ensured by the user country, and, of course, that the permanent disposal of the current high-activity waste and spent fuel is also Hungary's duty. But what we do know is that there is no built-in final storage for high-activity radioactive waste that is accepted anywhere in the world, and they have never been able to open it anywhere. So there are temporary storages here, right, Pakson, and, as you mentioned, my fellow Member, in Finland and, by the way, in Sweden, they are keeping these projects to the forefront, but they have not been able to solve them, and it was in these Scandinavian countries that the environmental court destroyed the authorization of such a nuclear cemetery, a storage facility of high-activity radioactive waste, because they could not prove that the various packaging and storage procedures would be suitable for these extremely dangerous materials to be contained for more than a hundred years. We are therefore talking about a challenge, which is obviously not only a challenge in Hungary, not only in Europe, but also in the world, that there is no solution to it in terms of technology, financing or the choice of venue. This is therefore an unsolved issue, and this should be examined when a decision is taken on the extension of operational time or on the construction of a new nuclear power plant. We are talking again about the future of our children, aren't we, in a responsible way, making these decisions that do not pawn our children's future, so to speak? And here, as the bill mentions, and has already mentioned these various local government information associations, there is a project in Hungary that started in the early 90s, this is the national programme for the disposal of high-activity radioactive waste, which, by the way, accelerated around 2013, was then built the small and medium-activity storage unit in Bátaapát, and, yes, the RHK Kft was released. its capacity, and that's when the nuclear cemetery project accelerated, which, of course, happens 8-10 kilometers from my home, the city of Pécs. What is happening here is that a decision has been made, which the Parliament has already adopted, and it was born in this particular national programme, that we have to build an underground geological storage facility in Hungary, that is, a nuclear cemetery in Hungarian, and it is also included in this decision that research on this is conducted only in relation to the Bodai Claystone Formation. So when we are discussing these issues, and the government says that it is not true that decisions have been made about this, I can say that, but, they were born, the Parliament has adopted such a national programme, in which the fact that there will be a nuclear cemetery is included, and that they are researching only in the Bodai Claystone Form. We were at the time asking Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, who specifically said in several forums and in Pécs that he agrees that such a nuclear object cannot be built without the consent of Pécs and its region and the people living in Pécs and its region. So the Prime Minister made a clear statement, perhaps in 2015, that they do have the right to tell the people of Pécs that they wanted a nuclear cemetery near their city, which obviously also applies to settlements near Pécs. Then the then pro-government mayor of the city confirmed that a research phase will be completed in 2018, right here in the nuclear cemetery, and then people will be asked. Well, they didn't ask people, even though we've always drawn attention to this, we've even wanted to start a referendum, which has been destroyed, that we can't start a local referendum on this, which is amazing. In the spring of 2019, Bodan, at a public hearing, the Director General of the National Atomic Energy Office acknowledged that there are very serious social problems here in relation to the construction of a high-activity storage facility that he will forward to the decision-makers. This is an exciting question, isn't it, that there is an authority, the Atomic Energy Agency, the authority responsible for the authorisation of which the Director-General said in the spring of 19 that he would signal this problem to the decision-makers, who are the decision-makers in such a case, if not the authority? And yet, even though he acknowledged this problem there, he was granted a permit, called a site search permit, and goes on with this project. Now, for this nuclear cemetery project, the project on the storage of high-activity radioactive waste, over HUF 10 billion has been spent here over the years, and the Prime Minister has acknowledged that such a storage facility cannot be built without the consent of the locals, but the residents have not been asked. So here you're running a dead end project using a lot of billions of forints. [[11.20]] It has also been said, indeed, that the deep drills ended here not too long ago. There have been deep drillings at three sites, and I've personally watched these deep drillings several times in nature conservation areas, into an amazing depth for months, and they've drilled into a depth of 1,200 meters. Compared to this, seismological tests are now being conducted. The RHK Ltd. commissioned a Polish company. So they're pouring out a huge amount of resources for a dead end project, which certainly won't end with the extension of operational time or the Paks II. They will be able to store an increased amount of radioactive waste. It's a serious irresponsible thing to do. But I also have a question here, Mr Secretary of State, when you will fulfill the Prime Minister's personal promise, when you will ask the people of Pécs, the people of Pécs, to want a nuclear cemetery 5-8-10-12 kilometers from the borders of our city. I think that everyone running this case, a virtually dead-end project, must take on political responsibility here, pouring into this huge amount of money, billions, knowing precisely that the population of Pécs rejects this investment. By the way, in 2019 the Municipality of Pécs, at the request of the representatives of LMP, adopted a decision not to want a nuclear cemetery and not to want a uranium mine a few kilometres from the city border. So we'd like some clear answers here, you and me, you guys. Another issue which is connected again to the nuclear industry and has already been discussed here, and also mentioned by Congressman Varju, the issue of uranium mining. It is clear that the uranium mining activity that once existed in Hungary had no economic relevance at any level; this served geopolitical and basically war purposes and was a hidden project, which was not economically relevant. At the same time, the uranium mine, which had been closed a long time ago, has not been abandoned. We know very well that the former uranium mining activity has caused environmental destruction that cannot be completely restored. An amazing amount of resources, more than 20 billion forints have already been spent on regeneration, but it would be necessary to protect Pécs' water base constantly because of the former uranium mining, so that it does not become contaminated, because it would have incalculable consequences. This requires a lot of work, a lot of public money, a never-ending task. So anyone who sees this and who has been in the area of Kővásőszőlős, who knows the history of this uranium mining activity, its effects, or its effects on people who have been involved in this, has caused serious diseases, has caused family tragedies, and they can see the environmental tragedy and disaster it has caused, does not say that nuclear energy is green. Because what we need to see when we talk about nuclear energy is the effects of the entire fuel cycle; that is, from uranium mining to the production of fuel, through the installation of fuel, after the operation of the nuclear power plant, through its decommissioning, through the disposal of high-activity waste and spent fuel, how much it has, how much it costs, and what brutal environmental destruction it entails. Anyone who sees the whole process doesn't talk about nuclear power being green. By the way, what's happening in Brussels? In Brussels, the atomic lobby practically won, and even the Paks II project could have happened with the wink of Brussels. So we say that we need to see these questions. On the other hand, I have a question, Mr Secretary, that, as the people in the region have said, as the Pécs have said, you will acknowledge that we do not want a uranium mine near our city, under our city. They are planning a uranium mining activity that would be drilled under the populated areas of Pécs with sloping mines, where ten tons of machine monsters would otherwise produce the material in the uranium lenses without otherwise creating jobs, but again, under the inhabited area of Pécs, this issue could be an amazing environmental destruction and environmental risk. Do you accept the will of the Pécs that no more uranium mines can be opened? 'Cause that's specific. the city's strategy, vision and all relevant accepted documents, and most importantly, it is against the interests, state and state of the natural environment of the people living there. The next question, which is once again linked to the bill before us, and that has been the issue of the Central Nuclear Financial Fund. Now, when you talk about nuclear energy being cheap, you never take into account the costs of decommissioning, you never take into account the costs of storage, the costs of a permanent storage, but at the same time the costs that have been taken into account, so to speak, which is already written on paper, are not covered by our current knowledge, or according to our information, by the amount that is paid into the Central Nuclear Financial Fund. So how and how do you intend to address this issue; so how can you manage to finance the activities that are inevitable with the peaceful use of nuclear power? Thus, the various nuclear safety measures, decommissioning costs, the management and storage of small and medium- and high-activity waste. How can you ensure that adequate payments are made to the Central Nuclear Financial Fund? Another relevant question. At present, in the case of the already mentioned high-activity nuclear cemetery project, there is a municipal information association from which the city of Pécs has been excluded, the city of Szentlőrinc has been left out, the town of Bicsérd, Pellerd, and the other settlements, i.e. many settlements in the region. At the same time, perhaps 10-12 settlements are members of this association. It is about the amounts allocated to them, but the question is why not at least at the level of information the cities of the region, let us say, why not involve the city of Pécs. I think that the possibility of transparency, socialisation and direct representation of the interests of the people living there on these issues is inevitable. If you are talking about these issues or the aid to be paid here, why do you not think about the whole area and why, for example, does the city of Pécs have no right to participate in this information association, why do you not have the right to formally express the opinion of the city of Pécs? And I would add that the nuclear law has been modified in such a way that, in recent times, the safety distance of such a nuclear object has been set at perhaps 500 metres against previous regulations, so practically anyone living within 500 metres can be a client, so legally the city of Pécs cannot be a client. And my time is very, very short, but I would like to ask you one more question, Mr. Secretary of State. We read in the press these days that a problem was discovered in Bátaapáti, where there is a storage of small and medium-activity radioactive waste. An investment was launched, where, by the way, the company in the Mészáros sector had the task of renovating and repairing tanks for the collection of so-called conditionally radioactive dung water, and there was a barrier to the work, because they discovered an error in these tanks. So I repeat: tanks for the collection of conditionally radioactive water. And after one tank, the other two tanks had problems. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I went to the site, asked about it, but I see that there is no meaningful information from RHK Kft. to the municipality of the region. I've been looking for the company, and I've been promised a recall, by the way. I am very confident that we can now receive information from the Secretary of State, and next week also from the President of the Atomic Energy Office. Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your patience. [[A rare applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2022-11-10-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. Congressman Tamás Bellozó asked for the floor, please.
u2022-11-10-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. If you can't make a statement or make an opinion, maybe you can ask questions. After all, today we are discussing specifically a bill, a proposal for a resolution, which will determine Hungary's room for manoeuvre, energy security and future for decades, and I think it is indeed not a negligible issue from this point of view that it is not just the personal issue in the structure of the Hungarian government. By the way, Mr President, the government has not contradicted it in its official communication, and indeed, it has described that if structural change occurs, we will be informed that there will be structural change in Hungarian. And according to the news, specific energy, which is the subject of the law, will be transferred to a separate wallet. I would ask the Secretary of State whether he can deny or confirm these, or what influence Paks I will have on the extension of operational time or the Paks II investment is that now, while we are discussing a law and a proposal for a resolution of this magnitude, this area is being transformed by the government, behind it, there could also be a strategic change that is contrary to what we are discussing here today. I'll be waiting for your answer. Thank you.
u2022-11-10-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. Tamás Szeberényi asked for two minutes to speak. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-11-10-29	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I asked you to speak for two things. On the one hand, the lead speaker of the LMP addressed me in a sense that I mentioned the misguided sanctions in Brussels in my speech as speaker. We mention the sanctions in Brussels quite often and their error, but I did not mention them in this speech as a speaker. The prolonged war and sanctions in Brussels have led to a drastic rise in energy prices across Europe. This may not even be disputed by the opposition that such an increase in energy prices has such reasons. [[11.30]] I would also like to respond to Mr Bell in a thought. He mentioned this incredibly demagogical approach to the net electricity price of HUF 12 and the retail price of HUF 70. I do not want to go into this debate in detail, because it will be decided professionally, but I would like to ask him why, even at the time of the MSZP governments, when the price of electricity was higher than 40 forints, and obviously Paks produced electricity at a low cost, why did they give energy to the population at such a high price, if that is what he thinks. Obviously, there are a lot of factors involved in the energy price, the price of electricity, which cannot be derived simply from the 12 HUF production of Paks. Therefore, this cannot be calculated independently of governments, nor has it been calculated by the MSZP-SZDSZ government at the time. Thank you.
u2022-11-10-30	Thank you very much. I can only speak to both applicants in the context of repeated speeches, because there is no room for two minutes. If you know the house rules, you won't be checking in for two minutes, so please delete the two minutes and check in for repeated speeches. So I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes.
u2022-11-10-31	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, If I have pressed the wrong button, I would just like to respond to the two-minute speech of the Member. Excuse me if you did not consider these sanctions to be wrong, and obviously everyone has the opportunity to express their opinion, only in general government communication is very strong on this issue. We had a long debate not too long ago, and one of your fellow Members was talking about insane sanctions. I also drew attention to the fact that the sanctions that your fellow Member called insanity were voted by his prime minister, so only Prime Minister Viktor Orbán voted for sanctions on behalf of Hungary. And how central this sanctions policy is on the Fidesz-KDNP side, you have also launched a consultation on this, I repeat, after the Prime Minister has voted on it. Yes, we are in a very difficult situation during an energy crisis in which Hungary is seriously vulnerable. I tried to do this not too long, but the reason why we are in such a vulnerable situation is because the policy of the Prime Minister's Government has not been forward-looking, irresponsible, and has not taken the measures that the Green Party of LMP Hungary has been working in the Hungarian Parliament since 2010 and we have drawn attention to it, and on which we have made proposals. By the way, at the end of the summer, we were confident that such serious omissions, after so many, many wrong decisions and in such a difficult situation, would be corrected at least partially by the government, so we were pleased with Minister Palkovic's statements on the authorisation of wind power plants instead of the ban on wind energy. And by the way, we were also pleased with your speech, perhaps on 27 October, which you said at the time, Minister, you practically announced that you would allow wind energy to be used. Well, that's why I was disappointed last Wednesday by Prime Minister's rebuttal, and that's why I'm interested in having a minister on this subject, and you might be able to respond to what the answer to these questions is, or what the object of the contradiction is. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2022-11-10-32	Thank you very much. I would also like to address Mr Tamás Harangozó as rapporteur. Here you go.
u2022-11-10-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I really forgot, I forgot that, compared to the good old days, there is no possibility of a two-minute real political debate or quick debate here because of the changes in house rules. By the way, I think that he certainly colored it, turned up the parliamentary debate in the good old days, how it could be so quickly and quickly reacting to each other. But then I would say to my fellow Member that the accusation of demagogy and populism from the mouth of a Fidesz MEP is very difficult to accept, for example, in a situation where we are talking about the price of electricity, and you are settling this with a one-word or two-word sanction in Brussels, while you know best, repeating my fellow Member, that on the one hand, the Prime Minister voted for them, and on the other hand, there is not a single sanction for electricity or natural gas. Of course, this is not the case, and of course, more complicated, you are right, but it started with Russia storming Ukraine on 24 February. It didn't start with the misguided sanctions in Brussels that ruined the Hungarian people, not! And that's not the real reason. But if we can get back to the specific issue, there are no peace times at the 12 HUF electricity price: we talk all day about an emergency being announced, there is regulation governance. You are talking about it, and you are deceiving people by protecting them from everything, and you need the extraordinary authority and all that, that you are lying through the market processes, you are guaranteeing the livelihood of the Hungarian people, while I am telling you that you are deceiving them, because you do have the opportunity to give them for that, but it is certainly not justified that they are giving electricity 6 times more than 25 times, for example. I would like to say to you then, I would also like to read this specific quote, especially if I suddenly find the consequences of what we are talking about here. This news just came out while we were sitting here, and the school district sent a letter to the mayor of Siofok, and I'll read it to you. [[He reads it from his phone:]] Your Honour, Mr. Mayor. We would like to inform you that, in view of the current economic situation, from 1 December 2022 we cannot provide hot water to public education institutions and kitchens in Siófok. The municipality will continue to be responsible for ensuring the supply of hot water. Please take note of the above. - Good afternoon. - Good afternoon. They take the schools away from the municipalities, they take the tax revenues from the municipalities, they take them out of the protected consumer circle, so they have to buy everything at market prices, then the Hungarian state will buy itself, and they will send a half-sided e-mail saying that from now on we will make sure that the children of Siófok freeze in the school or not, we have finished this from 1 December. Well, how would the municipality of Siofok pay for this? ! I'm guessing this won't be the first and last letter in this area. Congressman, they are deceiving people, and this is also in connection with, among other things, the issue of Paks electricity, which I have said, because they could provide electricity to municipalities and the general public at a much lower price. But let us consider it a rhetorical question that you will receive the answer: you know, Congressman, that Gergely Gulyás has already answered this question in substance to the Mayor of Budapest, and then pay attention, because then you know why it is. Not because it can't be sold cheaper, Gergely Gulyás wrote: we take gas so dearly from the Russians that so much loss is generated that we have to give electricity more expensively to refinance it. The minister wrote that down. In Hungarian, every household, local government, Hungarian company receives electricity more expensively to compensate for the losses of MVM on the terribly expensive purchased Russian gas, while the Prime Minister tells me here last week that all the extra income goes to the reduction of the rent. Now who's not telling the truth, Congressman? I also told you that 2600 billion HUF added revenue to the state until September only, of which only the VAT that everyone pays every day at the increased food price, the increased cost of living, by the way, on the rent... The data came out yesterday that there's 60 percent inflation in this area, 40 percent... [[The president's gonna turn off the speaker's mic.]]
u2022-11-10-34	Congressman, this is not the bill we're discussing. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Yes, absolutely about this...]] But, Congressman, everything can be about everything, but we are now debating the extension of the lifetime of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant and the Nuclear Power Act. So far, I have completely allowed everyone to say this, although that is not what Mr Kereszt was talking about in his speech. It is clear that everything is connected to everything, but from this point of view, I think that you should try to focus on this law. There you go. Keep going. [[Dr. Gyula Szeberényi Tamás applauds.]]
u2022-11-10-35	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you very much for applauding me, because I started this comment and I am trying to finish it unless I am banned from this Parliament because I say my opinion, because you accused me of demagoguey or our party of a situation of eleven years ago, which has absolutely nothing to do with this law, and yet you could say it. And I'm not gonna let it go. I would like to conclude, Mr President, by saying that if what the Prime Minister says is true and all the extra revenue goes to the reduction of the rent, then I can no longer accept that the heating will be shut down in schools so that people have to pay for electricity at six times the price, and the municipalities will have to pay 25 times the electricity that the Paks Nuclear Power Plant will otherwise produce under the law, and we hope that it will produce for many years. I think it's the demagogy you're doing, but it's not just demagogy, it's fucking expensive for every single Hungarian. Thank you so much for listening. [[Dr. László Keresztes applauds.]] [[11.40]]
u2022-11-10-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members, who would like to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the joint general debate is closed. I am now going to ask Mr Attila Steiner, as rapporteur, if he would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2022-11-10-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would also like to thank Members for their contributions and for the words of support they have said and for their professionally motivated contributions. Allow me, in principle, to respond to certain points by focusing on the subject of this proposal. I think that the issue of security of supply cannot be separated from the issue of Paks I. extension of operational time, and, yes, the current situation has highlighted the role of security of supply. If we are talking about ensuring security of supply in the long term in our country, then we must now take decisions that will make this possible. In this case, and generally in energy, if we are talking about infrastructure investments, there may be a five to ten-year run-through for a project. For this reason, I think that it is very rational and clearly justified that we now talk about this issue from a security of supply point of view. This does not mean that the issue of nuclear safety is not important, and I fully agree with the comments that nuclear safety is above all, but this situation does focus on the fact that it is a very high value if there are well-functioning, domestic and domestic-owned power plants in Hungary. I think that a lot of people are making the same decision as Hungary, that they would like to have these existing facilities that have proven to be used for as long as possible, and, as a matter of course, to make improvements that need to be made to ensure that the country's energy supply is in even more secure hands. This is a very good basis for the future. Just because today's debate is going down doesn't mean everything's decided here. There will, of course, be authorisation procedures for the project. There will also be an international environmental authorisation procedure, for example, but there will also be a lot of permits to be obtained by the project, and, as appropriate, if these permits are available, the project will only continue. So I think that the current legislative framework, which is available for this, provides adequate brakes and counterweights. Of course, we had to send these legislative amendments to Brussels. They will be notified to Brussels and Brussels will respond to this as to whether these amendments are acceptable or appropriate to the spirit of the Euratom Treaty. I must say that we have always done this notification, and so far Brussels has accepted all of our proposals, and the amendment has come into force accordingly. I would disprove the fact that we're talking wasted years. A lot has happened in the last 10-12 years in domestic energy policy, we have built a lot of interconnectors. I would also like to note that we have almost two Paks of renewable energy production capacity in Hungary; there are almost two Paks, almost 4,000 megawatts of solar capacity on the Hungarian network. This has come to this in recent years, and before that the solar panels were quite expensive, we have developed different support systems, and thanks to them we have made very good progress with regard to solar panels. Within the European Union, we are within the first five countries in terms of new solar capacity. Of course, this does not mean that the network does not need to be developed, especially given the fact that this amount of renewable energy capacity has already been installed on the network, so we have also started a network development programme in parallel, this programme has also started, and these investments are already under way. I would also like to confirm that today's proposal for a decision is about the Paks I project, and this does not make any decision on the Paks II project, so basically I was talking about the Paks I project, and I would like to keep it that way in the coming period, and I would like to keep the subject of this debate. I would also like to point out in relation to KNPA funds, this is not a new legal institution at all, that we provide funds for associations and provide funding for different purposes. There are informational tasks here, there are territorial development tasks, so basically what is changing now on the basis of the current proposal is the way these grants are accounted for. I think it has already been demonstrated that these grants have achieved a goal and served the right objectives, and now we want the method of clearing to be even clearer. Much has also been said about nuclear waste. I would therefore like to draw attention to the fact that this Finnish and Swedish project, mentioned by the Member, is moving forward. We are talking here that, of course, these are long projects, because we have to explore everything very carefully, all technical issues have to be covered, this has to take time, but yes, these projects are moving forward. In any case, I would also suggest to the Member that he should trust innovation, because innovation solves a lot of issues, and in this case, too, I think that innovation can provide a solution. I agree with Mr Toroczkai that nuclear energy and renewables are not enemies of each other, but the two energy sources can complement each other very well, and from a nuclear safety point of view it is also unique in Hungary that we have two years of nuclear fuel supply. I think this is very good news from a security of supply point of view. In addition, as I mentioned, the government has launched a very serious programme on system development issues. I would like to draw attention to the cross-member's questions that, yes, we would like to move forward with green energy, and, as I have already said, we already have almost two decks of capacity in the area of solar energy alone, but also the associated conditionality must be such that we can continue on this path. What do you need for that? The issue of balancing energy needs to be resolved, as in general, renewable energy production units in Hungary are weather dependent. When the wind is not blowing or the sun is not shining, there is still a need to provide balancing energy, and the costs of this have now increased greatly. I think that this is a very serious element that we need to address, and it is the issue of network development that we need to launch a very comprehensive programme on, but this work has started, and these projects have already started. Congressman mentioned unplanned shutdowns. I would also like to stress that unplanned shutdowns are not only in the case of nuclear installations. Where we are talking about power plants, whether gas-fired power plants or other technologies, there are also unplanned shutdowns, and I think that the unplanned shutdowns in the Paks Nuclear Power Plant are still by far very good figures on an international average, the average utilisation of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant is above 90 percent, which is extremely high in the international arena as well. I would also like to point out that, by definition, the fact that there is an energy crisis in Europe is not the result of government measures or of measures that you have not taken. This is the result of the fact that Europe is basically a poor continent of raw materials, and somehow these raw materials must be acquired. Basically, sanctioning measures when they look at prices, when sanctions have been introduced and how energy prices have developed on a timeline compared to this, we can see that energy prices have risen at that time. Why? Because we can farm from fewer sources of energy across the European Union, and this, as a matter of course, pushes prices up. [[11.50]] With regard to KNPA, I would like to point out that we may have had a debate about this in this House this year or at the end of the previous year, when we ensured that KNPA payments are of value, and this was supported by the Parliament, so a mechanism has been put in place for KNPA resources to ensure that the value of these funds does not decrease even in inflation. I propose that you write your specific question regarding Bátaapáti in relation to its specific proposal, and that the bodies concerned will respond, as appropriate. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-11-10-38	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Next up is the 2007 LXXXVI on electricity. Act and Act XL of 2008 on the supply of natural gas General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Government referral T/1843. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Attila Steiner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Technology and Industry, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2022-11-10-39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The war in Ukraine has caused a long-awaited energy and gas crisis, and this has been intensified by failed sanctions policies in Brussels. This is precisely why an energy hazard is in place in Hungary, as the security of energy supply for families is of paramount importance to the government, and exceptional measures are needed to do so. I think that the government has also made a unique decision in Europe by creating and maintaining the institution for the protection of Hungarian people. However, the gas and electricity supply crisis is affecting all of us. The proposal before us amends two laws: the Gas Supply Act and the Electricity Act, the content of which should be allowed to be described very briefly. The purpose of the amendment to the Electricity Act is to enable the transmission system operator to obtain the electricity necessary to compensate for the network losses on the transmission network, in compliance with the principle of minimum cost. The price of this electricity is very high. I believe that, because of the high prices generated during the energy crisis, it is essential for the transmission system operator to have all the means available to optimise and minimise the associated costs of operation required for operation. The amendment of the Gas Supply Act essentially clarifies the legal definitions, and this was necessary to bring us into line with the European Union's energy crisis regulation. In addition, we propose to install additional tasks for the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, which ensure the strengthening of security of supply and the decarbonisation of the gas sector, the release of renewable and low-emission gases and the release of hydrogen in a controlled and controlled, highly safe regulatory and technical environment. In addition, the bill establishes a regulatory framework for the rate of filling underground gas storage in accordance with European legislation and the reduction of gas demand in the event of a European supply crisis in domestic law. I would also like to inform you that the government is constantly monitoring the development of the purchase and storage of energy sources in the European Union, and that the promotion of consistency between EU and Hungarian law always requires serious consultations. The purpose of this proposal is to ensure that natural gas and electricity continue to be provided in sufficient quantities and at appropriate prices in Hungary. In view of this, the government remains committed to protecting the Hungarian people and guaranteeing the country's energy security, and I would ask the representative ladies and gentlemen to support the bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2022-11-10-40	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Here are the keynote speeches. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Gyula Siberényi. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-11-10-41	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The 2007 LXXXVI on electricity on the table in this House. Act and Act XL of 2008 on the supply of natural gas T/1843 on the amendment of the Act The purpose of the bill is to integrate the changes in legislation and the experience of applying the law over the past period into the laws and to bring them into line with the legislation that has entered into force in the meantime. The bill creates the legal conditions for the powers of the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office to operate an energy regulatory test environment. The aim of the new regulation is to encourage and support the uptake and entry of energy innovation performances that can facilitate the development and development of clean hydrogen networks based on the sustainability, cost-effective operation of natural gas infrastructure, adequate supply and security of supply requirements, and on the functioning gas infrastructure, as well as the development and development of clean hydrogen networks based on the functioning gas infrastructure. The amendment ensures that the transmission system operator is able to obtain and sell the surplus electricity needed to compensate for network losses on the transmission network, while applying the principle of minimum cost. The amendment is necessary in order to provide the transmission system operator with all means to reduce the costs associated with the operation of the network due to the existence of extremely high electricity prices. The purpose of the amendments is to include definitions in national legislation in accordance with EU legislation and to transpose the EU provisions on the level of charge of underground gas storage and gas demand reduction into domestic legislation in order to ensure the security of gas supply in the European Union. Dear Parliament, In this context, it is important to stress that Hungary's energy supply is secure and fully prepared for winter. Through the Turkish Stream gas pipeline, Russian gas is constantly arriving in Hungary without any problems. It is now the only wire that operates at full capacity. Every family will be able to heat during the winter. Energy will also be provided to economic and industrial operators in the winter months, and jobs will not be put at risk. There is an energy crisis in Europe as a result of the war in Russia. Thus, infrastructure development projects which, due to high gas prices and the decline in Russian resources, represent alternative sources for our region are once again flourishing. The MEKH Communication shows that a number of developments have recently reached their final stage. They're already affecting this year's gas year. In addition, several projects have been launched. These infrastructure projects also have a positive impact on the security of gas supply in Hungary and the Central and Eastern European region The Greek-Bulgarian and Polish-Slovak interconnection lines, as well as the Norwegian gas pipeline to Poland, have been commercialised with the new gas year, allow the Central and Eastern European region, in particular Hungary and other coastal countries, to diversify their purchasing routes. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In conclusion, the bill before us contains forward-looking provisions. That is why I call on my fellow Members to support this proposal, in the light of what has been said, like the Fidesz fraction. Thank you for your attention. [[12.00]]
u2022-11-10-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László Varju would come next on behalf of DK, but he is not present, so according to the house rules, his speech can be considered withdrawn. It would then be replaced by Mr Tamás Harangozó, who is also absent, so his speech should be considered withdrawn according to the house rules. However, there is Mr János Bencze, to whom I give the floor. Here you go, Congressman. The Member is the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2022-11-10-43	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. I thought it was important to speak, although the legislative amendment we are discussing largely contains technical clarifications, but it is a fact and a fact that it is trying to serve the goals which are set out in it. We in Jobbik would like to draw attention to a few things about daily problems. It is very commendable that we want to improve the supply of electricity or natural gas in Hungary at several points, but if we get to reality, we step out on the street, the Hungarian electricity grid per minute is at a point where we have small daily blackouts, this can be seen on the devices, which are not working for them. Several of the population have indicated that we should try to improve beyond the great things, which is very important. Innovations. I am very pleased that Hungary is committed to investing future innovations in both the electricity grid and gas systems in order to increase security of supply. I would add that, on the basis of practical experience, the current regulation is very critical to innovations, so it is not permissible. What exactly am I thinking here, learning from my own example? We tried to create a system suitable for solar, island-powered systems, but we were told that if we operate an island battery plant in a house, we will be cut off from the system because it cannot be connected to the system. I very much hope that these legislative amendments are in front of us, and I would also like to take a very positive approach to these proposals, which will be bridged, because Hungary really needs smart energy systems for smart cities. I hope this is our vision, because it will ensure that renewable energy sources, innovative new energy sources, will be channeled into the system so that they can be used in reality, not turned into home projects, and not in the interest of the stromones. Thank you very much. We can support that.
u2022-11-10-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr András Aradski.
u2022-11-10-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The two legislative proposals before us contain basically technical amendments, but I must stress that these technical amendments contain detailed rules for important solutions, namely that there are reserves in the Hungarian energy system or there may be reserves that help to better address the energy crisis due to a misguided Brussels sanctions policy for the benefit of the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian energy industry, in particular for the benefit of consumers. One of the important instruments of this is the Electricity Act to ensure that MAVIR, as the transmission system operator, is able to carry out commercial activities in connection with the purchase of the electricity needed to compensate for the transmission network loss and the sale of excess electricity, i.e. to sell the surplus and to purchase these additional opportunities and additional capacity. This contributes to strengthening the principle that has appeared in the price rules a long time ago in Hungary since the beginning of 2010, i.e. that the network manager is obliged to operate its system on the basis of the minimum cost principle. Among other things, the minimum cost principle has provided us with the background to the reduction of the costs that we have maintained since 2013 when we reduced the energy price for universal retail consumers by 25 percent at that time. We have reduced both the price of electricity and gas, which, despite the failed Brussels sanctions policy, we have managed to maintain to this day that energy prices remain unchanged until average consumption. With this, we can provide each Hungarian citizen with a monthly HUF 180,000 allowance and a discount for each place of consumption. This amendment, which we can only welcome, is the basis for this change, and the added value of its reinforcement, in the right way. I think it is important to note that the proposal for a law on gas supply also points in the direction that innovative ideas, new energy sources, such as biogas or hydrogen, can be used in a test operation, will be given the regulatory power of the Hungarian Energy Office, thereby ensuring that informed decisions and opportunities are also opened to innovative solutions. I consider this to be very important, because both biogas and hydrogen use will provide an opportunity to open a gate in the energy system that will bring Hungary forward in achieving the goal that we have stated that by 2050 90 percent of our energy production will be climate neutral. So the provision of such an opportunity and its assessment, the establishment of the conditionality, are certainly forward-looking and can serve the interests of the Hungarian industry, the Hungarian economy and the Hungarian population. Other additional regulations are more technical in terms of the Gas Act. It follows the management of crisis situations that fall under EU legislation and which it is necessary to introduce in order to be able to participate in the resolution of gas supply situations based on European solidarity and dealing with emergency situations. Overall, the legislative proposals presented are significant and, in agreement with the legal solutions and objectives set out therein, KDNP can support the adoption of the proposals submitted. Thank you for your kind attention.
u2022-11-10-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Dialogue Group is Congressman Bence Tordai. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-11-10-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, We see that in the last 12 years, energy matters have been dominated by perfect incompetence and chaotic rush. Not only has Hungary been unable to switch to sustainable, reliable, cheap green energy since 2010, as proposed by the Dialogue and all people with sound green thinking and experts, but it has not even been possible to guarantee security of supply. So, while we were energy exporters in 2010, now we have to cover 30% of the electricity from imports. The amendments that are in front of us have very little impact on the essence of energy policy, whether it be electricity or natural gas. We learn much more about today's Hungarian reality from what is not included in these amendments and from what is happening in the government in terms of energy policy. Yesterday's news is that the competent minister, though sloppy, secretly resigned, submitted his resignation to the Prime Minister. They could not even tell whether or not Viktor Orbán accepted the departure of his so far strong energy man, but we can see the chaos, the haste, the distortion, the amateurism behind the process that led to Minister Palkovics' resignation. Let us look at the issue of less relaxed nuclear power, which has already been mentioned in the previous legislative proposals. Fidesz people in Brussels vote in favour of sanctions against Rosatom, and then back home they say they're building it up cheerfully, and they're planning Paks II with my Rosatom arm. [[12.10]] Then they say that this new wonderful nuclear power plant will certainly be built by the beginning of the 1930s, but in any case, they will now submit a bill that would not extend the operating hours of the Paks I blocks in the 1930s by ten years, but twenty years. So let's go through the story, a 50-year-old nuclear power plant planned for 30 years, in the thirties, for another 20 years without any risk or economic impact assessment being included. How do I put this? This is not so comforting from the point of view of Hungarian energy security and nuclear safety. Obviously, this can't be classified as a good solution either. And when, hearing the word of green policy, the word of the future seems to be taking a few hesitation steps to harness new renewable energies, namely now to harness wind energy, then the minister, who is touching in this direction, will quickly be shorelined and the energy portfolio will be taken away from him. This is what has happened here, isn't it, Minister Palkovics, a few times said that wind power would make sense, despite what you've heard here, that the wind doesn't always blow, which is a crazy discovery, thank you very much for sharing your knowledge about this, but there are times when wind blows, and when it's practically zero cost and practically free, when you look at marginal costs, wind power plants produce renewable energy. I don't know exactly what kind of arguments you have inside you, but your governance is neither transparent nor professionally sound, so you really have to go into these cremlinological speculations, but it seems that a little more open to reason and sobriety has once again been defeated in your political battles. The only problem is that the Hungarian citizens drink the money for these Fidesz government infighting, and the Hungarian taxpayers pay the bill. Only if we look at what your brilliant long-term gas contract has resulted in for Hungarian consumers: last September, Orbán-Szijjártó-dream pair Vladimir Putin concluded this ten-plus five-year gas contract, in the period since then Hungary suffered a HUF 1500 billion loss on this contract. This HUF 1500 billion, which is an inaccessible huge amount, will again be paid by Hungarian taxpayers. The fact that you are increasing the price of natural gas sevenfold results precisely from the fact that you managed to conclude this infinitely messed-up gas contract, which is one of the worst businesses of the century, where, not at fifth price, but sometimes, for example, in these months, war criminal Vladimir Putin buys gas for five times the price, maintaining his repressive system and his war machine. So when we see this infinite, I don't know, servitude, compromise, treason, or simply incompetence, there are serious questions as to whether Hungary's energy supply is safe; and we really didn't even talk about how much it is sustainable, how environmentally safe it is, how well it is to ensure people's health in the conditions you produce. In addition to the Minister's resignation, another important admission to your energy failure, which is once again not mentioned, which is once again not addressed by this legislative amendment proposal, the charge of gas storage. There was a considerable professional scandal about wanting to extract the pillow gas from the second largest gas storage facility in Hungary, which is intended to maintain the functionality of the storage unit at all. Orbán himself confirmed that indeed, in Hajdúszoboszló, 800 million cubic meters of pillow gas will be extracted from the storage room during the winter period, which, if we understand the technical findings correctly, threatens to collapse this storage unit, which is a gas storage facility with a capacity of billions. There is no need to explain how irresponsible it is in these difficult times, in the times of such a serious Russian exposure maintained by the Orbáns, in a war situation to collapse the second largest gas storage facility in Hungary. But it also shows your failure, your haste and your incompetence in extracting unconventional hydrocarbon resources. This is a story called the Corvinus project because of something, that it also called shale gas in Békés County, Nékpuszta, but more precisely, they would start extracting unconventional hydrocarbon resources. What they've been doing about this is a smudge, a blur, a mix-up, it's a joke book. I asked, or, in the context of a public interest request and a written question, tried to find out what the hell was going on with this project at the county government office and at the responsible ministry. And they gave perfectly contradictory answers to each other: Secretary Koncz says that the trial drills have already started, and at the government office they said that no authorisation procedures have started in this regard. Now, either one of them is lying, or they started drilling with fracturing technology without permission. I don't know what's worse, so if the secretary of state writes that the government office is lying, or vice versa, the government office is disproved by the secretary of state, or if you're unlicensed, so you're actually gonna start digging around with a technology that doesn't just have an amazing need for water, so you're gonna have to use hundreds of millions of gallons of drinking water, and then you're gonna poison it with different chemicals, and then you're gonna put drinking water in the ground, and you're gonna be in danger of drinking water in a region that's already extremely drought and lack of water. So I think if you tell people in Peace that there won't be any drinking water next summer, but in a few years we'll be drilling nice gas wells for you, I don't think they'll applaud you. But the fact is that there are environmental and health risks in addition to this unconventional hydrocarbon production with fracturing technology, that in virtually every European country that is seriously accepted, this has been simply banned, Germany, France, Great Britain, and we could continue to do so; it is simply a law against the use of this technology. So it would be possible to consider, if the Hungarian energy needs were to be met in a responsible, long-term sustainable way, then, for example, in such an amendment, it would be safe to ban the extraction of these types of shale gas stocks, because this is too high a risk and, to add it, too high costs; moreover, within a few years there will be no tangible result, and this will not solve the short-term gas crisis, which is only good for burning a lot of money in the medium to long term, and thus linking Hungary even more to the fossil energy dependency in which they themselves maneuvered our country with Vladimir Putin's willing help. So these are all cases that could have been solved. This amendment of the law would have been a wonderful opportunity to embed the green energy revolution, to embed the transition to safe, cheap and future-friendly green energies, renewable energies, and what the Dialogue has been proposing for ten years, or to embed the energy efficiency transition that can be a guarantee of a genuine, eternal reduction in electricity, which would not appear as a political product, but as a tangible reality for Hungarian families. You have missed this opportunity, you do not understand energy policy, you have no idea what the responsible green energy policy means, and in this matter and in the collapse of your government in the last few days, weeks and months it has shown itself perfectly. It would be high time if they no longer knew how to help, at least don't harm those who can control Hungary's energy policy on a professional basis, or at least listen to those constructive, forward-looking and well-founded amendments, or even proposals calling for a 180-degree turn, which are made by the Dialogue and other green or less green opposition parties. So I propose to the Secretary of State and to the entire Ministry, or now we do not know who is responsible for this area, ultimately, in this strange fidesz chaos government, to withdraw, ice this amendment, and rather solve the problems that are truly tense, whether we look at the wallet of Hungarian families, our health or our long-term environmental interests. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]] [[12.20]]
u2022-11-10-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mr Lóránt Keresztes. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-11-10-49	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In the recent legislative debate on Paks I's extension of operational time and the amendment of the nuclear law, I have made my criticism very detailed, and I feel that I have referred, by the way, to the important, related question, to serious failures or bad decisions regarding the government's energy policy, but at the same time, at this specific, relatively short bill, I am trying to be very slick and ambitious. We see that, although it is always right, in every such case, the criticism of the government, because we are in such a vulnerable position because of the government's policy, but these amendments, we believe, are appropriate. Indeed, they open the space for innovation. In part, we are in favour of referring innovation back to Mr Secretary of State's speech, and we believe that legislative harmonisation measures are also important, so we will support this proposal in particular. Unfortunately, it will be inevitable, but I will have to return to the government's energy policy in the debate on the environmental programme, but this proposal is okay with us. Thank you very much.
u2022-11-10-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. There is now room for further speeches by Members who have missed the speaker's speech because of their official duties. First, I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Bellozó. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-11-10-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Indeed, the bill contains basically eligible parts. For example, the Electricity Act allows MAVIR, the organisation in the electricity market not only to buy, but also to sell, in the context of the replacement of the take-over network loss, and in the case of the Gas Supply Act, the solution that creates the legal conditions for the power of the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office to operate its energy regulatory test environment can be particularly forward-looking. The aim of the new regulation is to encourage and support the uptake and entry of energy innovation performances that can facilitate the development and development of clean hydrogen networks based on the sustainability, cost-effective operation of natural gas infrastructure, consumer demand or security of supply, as well as on the functioning gas infrastructure and on the functioning gas infrastructure. The EU provisions on the level of charge of underground gas storage and the reduction of gas demand will also be transposed into domestic legislation in order to ensure the security of gas supply in the European Union. Less eligible, even particularly odd, mainly due to its history, regulatory point, FGE Zrt. FGE Zrt. due to infringement practices resulting from the misinterpretation of its lawyers. This is a clarification of the labour lawsuit that has failed, which has been included in the law. FGE Zrt. because of the fact that the definition of the person having operational control and the provisions concerning the termination of the employment of persons are amended by the law. If it weren't clear to anyone, it's a name-by-name legislation again, so it's a case where a labour suit after a former colleague's departure has failed, and to please it, the law will now be rewritten so that no more such action can occur. Ladies and gentlemen, What is included in the bill is basically eligible, but after amending the laws on natural gas and energy supply, I must say what is very lacking in this bill, and what we believe that this Parliament should negotiate in the opening of these laws today, November 2022. I am now telling my fellow Members that there will not be demagogic proposals, at least think about it, so that if you have already opened this law, you can say something about these issues. Such is the fact that there are no guarantees in the law that everyone at their place of residence has access to the electricity and gas needed to sustain life. It does not include the possibility of what we have said many times, once this law has been opened, that municipalities, budgetary bodies, small and medium-sized enterprises and public benefit NGOs should be returned to the protected care area. It does not include the rules for the installation and free return of free prepaid meters, which very, very many people expect; more will be expected in the coming months. It does not include the placing of bottled LPG gases under general regulatory price regulation, as you know that service providers simply deceive people and pull the skin off our countrymen who may be cooking with LPG every day because of a bad regulation. This bill does not include, either part of it, the fundamental amendment that we propose is that universal services should deliver their VAT rates to 5% for both electricity and natural gas. It is not normal, as I have just mentioned, that yesterday's data show that the Hungarian Central Statistical Office has 60% inflation rate for both electricity and natural gas, and 27 percent VAT is still included in the additional costs raised at this level. They collect an amazing amount of extra money from people, and once again, not only by raising the basic fee, but also by adding an additional one-third VAT. If you really wanted to help the population, the companies during the energy crisis today, not to go bankrupt, the municipalities and even the public institutions, so that people wouldn't freeze in it, that would be a very big step forward. It does not include the detailed rules that the government promised at the end of the reduction of the rent after its announcement. It was also said in government, if I remember correctly, from the mouth of Gergely Gulyás, that they would make special rules for those who use exclusively electricity and light and heat; they promised not to do so. There are a lot of people in this country who are now desperate to see what will happen to him in the next period. And it does not finally include, to be honest, an apology which is not directly related to the natural gas and power supply itself from a regulatory point of view, but which fundamentally eliminates or reduces the energy crisis, is our proposal for what we have been saying for decades, and even the MSZP government has taken serious steps in this, the housing programme, which would be the best and longest-term solution. There's no energy cheaper than unused energy. Since the closure of the panel program, there has been no progress in this country for almost 12 years. There are 1.4 million so-called Kádár cubes in our villages and small towns, and there are nearly 1.4 million condominiums and co-operatives, where living people would indeed have a permanent and sustainable cost reduction of 30-40 percent if the government started a program of the thousands of billions of additional VAT and other revenues I have mentioned today. Not to mention, ladies and gentlemen, you know that the construction industry has come to the brink of collapse as a result of the crisis, that they could create jobs, give jobs here, to our own countrymen working in the construction sector, and that the result would be a smaller bill for each citizen and a higher value for property. Unfortunately, after these proposals have not been included, we believe that the government is not taking the really important problems seriously in the context of the energy crisis. As I mentioned, besides the personal part of the bill, the proposals contained in it may at least be useful in the long term, but they do not approach the factors I have just listed and lack them. Thank you so much for listening.
u2022-11-10-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László Varju is coming from the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[12.30]]
u2022-11-10-53	Mr. President. Thank you very much for your understanding and for the opportunity to say all the opinions that have been expressed in us. I would like to say this to this House on three issues which are basically focused on what the government has not done and what is needed, what it has submitted and what it should have submitted in order to make real progress, to be able to happen at such a time as we are living in. The production of this period, of course, whatever you refer to, is essentially the result of your governance, that families, municipalities, businesses that need help are in difficulty, but you are doing nothing in this respect. They are not taking any meaningful steps either, because when the flat-rate gas bill of HUF 15,000 rises to HUF 65,000, and this happens to a lot of people, I do not know how you think that pensioners living alone can finance it. But since I have promised you, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to express my opinion in three items. When, in this proposal, I am presented and joined by my fellow Member, in which it is formulated to encourage and support the uptake and entry into the market of energy and innovation performances that can promote important processes, what would be better than at this moment, than at this moment, that an impact assessment is indeed being carried out that presents this, an information package that is available to all Members, and is transparently convinced that it will indeed serve sustainability, cost-effectiveness and consumer needs. But despite the fact that such a rule has been made for themselves, and this law, as it should have been attached to the previous one, you do not do so, but rather, in a state of fact, I could say that you are putting the law here, and you believe that, in the hands of the majority of the government, you will immediately have it approved, and in this sense, the impact assessment, which would otherwise include a number of decision-making versions, would collect the expected benefits, disadvantages and create a substantive decision-making situation, well, you will save it, and you will not be able to submit it to us. In such a situation, laws must be amended, in this case the Electricity Act and the Gas Supply Act, and what you have just put before us must be judged in this context. What's being submitted is a vision of what you've missed in the last ten years. Today it is the development of a system that is up to Magyar Electricity Industry Transfer System Manager Zrt. In the framework of its activities, it could have appeared on its own years ago, preparing the system for the sustainability of the new balance, when, by the way, small power plants are able not only to feed in, but also to receive the system itself. We see the consequences of making or non-executing the improvements necessary to maintain this balance, when families using solar panels, fleeing from the increase in energy costs, are destroying investments by, in fact, eliminating the possibility that they have previously undertaken, not an obligation, but an option, and now declare that they cannot join, by the way, those who would have such an intention after October 31st. So, to create such a situation, I think it is extremely irresponsible, and part of the recklessness of not preparing the country, the system, businesses, or families for how to implement the modern use of their electricity supply. You've done a lot of damage. At the same time, if they are trying to follow this up, in line with EU regulations, and I add, not only at the expense of EU funds, but also at the expense of domestic resources, and even at the expense of service providers' obligations, I think that you should have promoted this by now. This hasn't happened so far, and that's why the situation I told you about before is coming up. The expansion of MAVIR's activities can be justified at first sight, even for the reasons mentioned above, but there is also a lack of guarantees that would make the sale and purchase of electricity transparent and verifiable. In recent times, we can say that we can see exactly what is happening, i.e. we do not see exactly what is happening, i.e. it is characterised by lack of transparency. Even because MAVIR, like many other government agencies, often acts not on the basis of economic necessity and elementary logic, but on the basis of the political objectives of the Fidesz government, is loyal and precisely concerned with its implementation. We are, of course, meeting with solar power plants that operate undisturbed at the borders of several settlements, and besides, as I have said, families and businesses who have wanted to respond to the new situation here are trying to do something for themselves and prevent them from doing everything for themselves. An example of this is that in July this year, the Ukrainian state came forward as a new seller in the Hungarian electricity market, but MAVIR, who oversees imports, has so far rejected this Ukrainian option. While the electricity coming from there, I think that it could have been needed and even helped to do so. According to press reports, these negotiations with the Ukrainian network management organization were completely interrupted in August due to the isolation of the Hungarian party. Based on industrial sources, there may be a political decision in the background, but I trust that the Secretary of State will either disprove it or confirm it, but the MAVIR responded to the press news at the time and claimed that Hungarian-Ukrainian discussions were taking place and that the technical problems had to be resolved. Where are you at, Mr. Secretary of State, on this matter? In the third package, I would like to mention that my fellow Member has already mentioned that, according to press reports, the gas storage facility in Hajduszoboszlo is about to start producing pillow gas immediately. Dear Secretary of State, Please state clearly that you don't do that. Many experts have clearly drawn attention to the damage they can do. I trust that because there is virtually full interoperability between the Member States of the European Union in terms of the availability of natural gas, the uploading of gas reservoirs has practically taken place, the consequence of which is that this type of irresponsibleness does not take place, it is not necessary, and in this sense their decision or statement of panic does not take place. I don't suggest it, and I don't want that to happen. In this package, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the presentation of the bill would have given rise to opportunities that would have allowed families and businesses to support survival. [[12.40]] To be honest, I am very, very surprised that their support system for keeping jobs has been so modestly defined in terms of reducing energy costs and supporting businesses. This includes focusing on selected sectors rather than providing general sector-wide support for the next few months. Dear Secretary of State, This is the solution not to dismiss people, to ensure that there is no significant unemployment, and to ensure that businesses do not lose employees they do not want to dismiss. A number of people have said that they are trying to keep them in some way until December, but then there is this risk. It will be your responsibility and that is why the shadow government has said that this is one of the most important means of keeping jobs. I am truly shocked by what you have done to the municipalities. Instead of helping public and municipal institutions to obtain gas at an appropriate price, you have abandoned the municipalities and abandoned them not only in paying the price of natural gas, but also in district heating. 17-fold increase in overhead costs again, I'll give you a specific example for those Újpest GPs where they should be paid 17-fold in the situation created by your misguided district heating price. In this situation, the municipality, in this case the Municipality of Újpest, took up its responsibility until December, but it is impossible that, while you have not extended the support of GPs and their revenue opportunities for decades, while increasing their costs, including overhead costs, by 17 times. I think you're under duress. And, as I said, it is not in this law that, in this case, I am thinking of the municipalities in a broader sense, it is not necessary to distract them, but to help them, or to accept the costs they incur in this way. Your irresponsibleness is therefore a very serious risk to businesses and jobs. Finally, there were families left alone in some strange way. I'll give you one example, Mr. Secretary. In Tiszaföldvár, customer service is provided by the Post Office. The consumer who received a HUF 65,000 bill after the flat fee of HUF 15,000 wanted to find out exactly why this happened. In Tiszaföldvár, the post office has to line up two days a week to get someone in line. This year is no longer an option. You have to travel to scratch, where you have to get a number first, and then you talk to him. Under these circumstances, they have produced the vulnerability of people, which is unacceptable, and in this law they do not attempt to modify it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2022-11-10-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I am now asking Mr Attila Steiner, State Secretary, if you would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Attila Steiner: Yes.]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2022-11-10-55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much for the fundamentally supportive contributions on this proposal. This is precisely why I do not want to take advantage of Bence Tordai's proposal to withdraw our proposals. I think these are very important proposals. They appear to be technical, but, as several Members have pointed out, we are making very important changes to these proposals on security of supply, which are in line with EU guidelines and EU legislation, so that Europe and Hungary can get through this winter as easily as possible. (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.) I would also like to point out that this EU legislation provides for a top-up target and a charging schedule for Member States in relation to underground gas storage. I would like to inform the Parliament that Hungary has successfully met these targets and has even exceeded them. This EU regulation provides for a 35-percent obligation of entry into storage, and we have well exceeded 35 per cent. There is more than 50 percent level of charge in Hungary, and with this we are in the top 3, we have one of the three best values throughout Europe, so we are prepared for the winter period. I would also like to thank Members for their comments on innovation. I, too, believe that this regulatory test environment creates an opportunity where we can examine that biogas and hydrogen are elements that reduce conventional natural gas and fossil exposure and how they can be applied even more, while using existing infrastructure as much as possible. Thank you very much for the supporting contributions in this respect. Finally, although it is only indirectly linked to this proposal, let me also respond to Mr Varju's suggestion and comment. With regard to the development of electricity networks, I would like to point out that there have been very serious improvements in the system so far. They've built interconnectors. For example, at the beginning of the year we handed over two interconnectors to Slovakia, and the link to Slovenia was also built. In addition, transmission network operators and distribution network operators are constantly working on projects of a ten-year network development plan. These ten-year network development plans are also agreed with the transmission network organisation in Brussels, ENTSO-E, because these network developments should be consistent at European level as appropriate. So we are not talking about no development, but we want to speed up the current developments, and we want to use domestic budgetary resources for this, and we have already used them. Projects that we would like to finance from RRF sources were prefinanced by the Hungarian Government, precisely in order not to have to wait until those funds actually arrived. We have already started with a programme of HUF 103 billion, and these projects are already under way. I think it's a very, very serious program. If projects equivalent to HUF 103 billion are to be implemented this support part of the entire project package, this will allow another 2 thousand megawatts of renewable energy generation capacity to join the network. This is how we can progress gradually. I would also like to point out that Hungary synchronized the Ukrainian electricity network to the European network in record time in two weeks. This project was planned with a lead time of one and a half to two years, and MAVIR successfully completed it in two weeks. At present, about 40 percent of the existing Ukrainian energy network is not operational, so the problem is now reversed: how the European system could deliver as much energy as possible to Ukraine. This is basically what the discussions are about between the MAVIR colleagues and the Ukrainian colleagues. [[12.50]] These consultations are ongoing, all in the coordination of the European transmission network regulator. So I think we're making progress in this area, too. Thank you very much for your attention, and I would like to ask you once again to support the proposal here. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-10-56	Thank you very much, Attila Steiner, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law amending certain mining and economic laws will follow until closure. Government referral T/1844. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Attila Steiner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Technology and Industry, author of the item on the agenda.
u2022-11-10-57	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The draft legislation amending certain mining and economic laws essentially covers two regulatory issues: firstly, it clarifies the standards relating to the extraction of mining, including geothermal energy and the promotion of hydrocarbon extraction; secondly, it amends the rules on tobacco trade in order to protect minors because of the harmful effects of the use of plant and herbal products that can be consumed by heating technology. First of all, I would like to highlight some of the most important changes made to the proposal to achieve the objectives set in the field of mining. The geological properties of Hungary are extremely favourable for geothermal thermal recovery. The thickness of the earth's crust here is less than one third of the average bark thickness in Europe, due, among other things, to the large number of thermal baths known worldwide in Hungary, and thanks to the geological development history, our region also has a significant quantity of thermal reservoirs. The war in Ukraine and the failed sanctions in Brussels have led to an energy crisis throughout Europe, and in this situation, energy sovereignty is more urgent than ever, and thanks to technological developments, we now have safe and clean technologies that replace fossil fuels, such as geothermal, which can be achieved not only by the continuous supply of heat and energy, but also by protecting our natural environment. Geothermal energy can support our country's energy sovereignty in the long term, but it is necessary to establish a predictable and stimulating regulatory framework to this end. In principle, geothermal is already present in district heating systems in Hungary, but I see that we have the greatest potential in this area, and by exploiting the potential, we could achieve a reduction in gas consumption of up to 1-1.5 billion cubic metres per year in Hungary by 2030 and instead generate this amount of energy with geothermal energy. XLVIII of 1993 on mining By amending law, the Mining Authority has the power to authorise the research, extraction and exploitation of geothermal energy. The Mining Act will thus be supplemented by a new chapter setting out rules for the research and exploitation of geothermal energy. Geothermal energy research may be carried out on the basis of permission from the Mining Inspectorate, which shall be subject to the provision of a financial guarantee, thereby excluding the operation of unsuitable undertakings and unjustified land reservations. The Mining Inspectorate will keep a public register of geothermal research areas and the exploitation and exploitation of geothermal energy will only take place on the basis of a fixed-term contract with the Mining Inspectorate for a maximum period of 20 years, which may be extended once by up to 15 years. One of the conditions for the conclusion of the contract is the designated protection zone, which provides the legal limits for the exploitation of geothermal energy, and in addition, the mining contractor will have to have a legal declaration ensuring the proper utilisation of the geothermal energy envisaged for the purpose of recovery and undertake to obtain the annual amount of geothermal energy planned for that use. Since the Mining Inspectorate has the power to authorise the exploitation and exploitation of geothermal energy by the production of thermal water, LVII of 1955 on water management. There is also a need to amend certain provisions of law in order to avoid legal uncertainty and conflict of laws. The other part of the bill amends certain laws relating to trade in tobacco. The legislator would primarily like to combat the harmful effects of the use of new, so-called heating technology, plant and herbal products, and to provide more protection to minors. To this end, the 1999 XLII on the protection of non-smokers and certain rules on the consumption and marketing of tobacco products. CXXXIV of 2012 on reducing smoking of minors and on the retail trade in tobacco products. by amending law, it would create a regulatory framework. XLVIII of 2008 on the basic conditions and certain limitations of the economic advertising activity. By amending law, the proposal creates a framework for advertising regulated products, as the world of advertising has changed enormously in recent years, and countries must carefully review and extend their legislation to new tobacco, smoking and nicotine products in order to improve the protection of public health. Numerous studies have been carried out on the influence of advertising and, therefore, in order to protect the health of young people, it is important to keep tobacco advertising as narrow as possible. In view of all this, I would ask all the factions of the Parliament to support the proposed amendments. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-10-58	Thank you very much, Attila Steiner, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, The keynote speeches will now take place, each within a 15-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Mr Gyula Szeberényi, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2022-11-10-59	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The past period has been about increasing the role of energy sources in European economic policy. Economic professionals and laymen are also most concerned about how much energy is needed to run the economy and serve the needs of the population. Creating this and ensuring its conditions have become the primary task of all governments. One of the aims of the bill before us is to ensure this, to help those in the sector and to guarantee Hungary's energy security. Geothermia is an important renewable energy source for our country. The authorisation of the exploitation and exploitation of geothermal energy by thermal water extraction falls within the competence of the Mining Inspectorate and therefore certain provisions of the Water Management Act need to be amended, thus eliminating the uncertainty of the application of law and avoiding conflicts between laws. It is necessary to establish the powers of the Mining Inspectorate to authorise the exploration, extraction and exploitation of geothermal energy. [[13.00]] Once the proposal has been adopted, authorisation will be granted by a single authority, ensuring consistency in the application of the law. The obligation to repress the extracted water is also changing, the new regulation requires full repression in relation to geological and technical possibilities, so there is room for manoeuvre, and by amending the Water Management Act, the cost of repressing can be offset from the water supply contribution. The Water Management Act 15/C. Paragraph 8 of Section 8 provides only the cost of re-pressing incurred in the tax year to the extent of the water supply contribution. The highest cost of re-pressing arises by establishing a re-pressing well, which significantly exceeds the amount of water supply contribution to be paid in a tax year following the start of re-pressing. Incentivising re-pression would mean that the total cost of re-pressing wells and related facilities would be eligible. Thus, although several years apart, the costs of repressing could be returned to the mining contractor. Achieving full repression, thus preserving groundwater resources, is a more important objective than the budgetary payment of a relatively small annual water supply contribution. The draft provides the consumer with the possibility of notification in the event of the service or non-compliance with the mining contractor. The regulation ensures that the Mining Inspectorate fully examines the merits of the notification and uses the possibility to terminate the contract only if the mining contractor is liable to act in the absence of any other means of action. The amendment allows the holder of the hydrocarbon mine in a closed area if it is supported by geological or production considerations, without concession, to obtain a research permit if the mine tank is to be expanded vertically or horizontally with a maximum of one block of research. Cost-effective hydrocarbon research and extraction has been identified as an entrepreneurial need for specific cases where different mining contractors have the right to mine in respect of the same location. The legislation deals with the protection of non-smokers and certain rules on the consumption and marketing of tobacco products in XLII 1999. also by amending the law. The law complements the definition of herbal products for smoking in such a way as to include heating consumption, thus ensuring consistency with the definition of smoking. XLVIII of 2008 on the basic conditions and certain limitations of the economic advertising activity. In its amendment to the Act, the ban on advertising extends to herbal products for smoking. The draft legislation deals with the 2012 CXXXIV on the reduction of young people's smoking and retail trade in tobacco products. also by amending the law. The main aim of the proposal is to create a single set of rules and thus to enforce the original goal: to make young people addicted to smoking as little as possible. It extends the scope of the law to herbal products that can be heated for smoking in order to make them available on the market only at places where tobacco products are sold. The purpose of the package of laws is clear. This product scope is treated as a substitute for already regulated harm-reduced products without the actual health effects and risks of these products being identified, partly because of the fact that the volume of consumers and consumption is not known due to free access. Nicotine heating rods also contribute to increasing consumer dependence. It is possible to talk about a high degree of visibility, not only as regards health risks, but also as regards the consumer layer. By buying products from anyone, such as a webshop, a gas station, a news store, they have the advantage of placing them on the market and distorting the market for tobacco products. The age of the consumer community cannot be crediblely justified, so there is a violation of our efforts to protect minors. It should be pointed out that products containing nicotine that are intended to be included in the scope of the regulation are not considered as a means of supporting smoking cessation, but rather as a means of developing and maintaining addiction. The best way to prepare for the management of these risks is to make the range of consumers and the quantity of products consumed known as soon as possible through marketing regulation. The regulatory need arises precisely from the vision, and the legislator wishes to establish a standard, in the light of the precautionary principle, by introducing herbal products for smoking into all relevant sections of the Law on the control of smoking of minors and on the retail trade in tobacco products. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill we have just tabled further strengthens Hungary's energy security, the increase in the share of renewable energy and hydrocarbon-free energy, and further strengthens our efforts to protect the country's juvenile population from the harm of smoking. In view of this, I call for the support of the proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-11-10-60	Thank you, Congressman Gyula Szeberényi. I now give the floor to Mr László Varju, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2022-11-10-61	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear House, With Mr State Secretary, we will now exchange opinions here in the third law side by side or behind each other, so that you can slowly and slowly get used to being accountable to you or at least note that for these proposals you should have submitted an impact assessment, at least according to your own rules. Since you have not done so, I would therefore like to remind you that you are responsible for submitting this impact assessment, so as rapporteur, it should have been done. You are required by your own rules as an obligation, and I am very sorry that you did not take this opportunity. I could say that legislation has been broken, and in this way we cannot obtain that the preparatory of the regulation has not chosen the substantive regulatory elements with significant consequences, the consequences of which will be analysed in the preliminary impact assessment. However, here and in this case, I will give you some examples of why it would have been necessary for the government itself to carry out practices in different areas, even here in the proposal for a bill to amend certain mining and economic laws, for which this would be entirely justified. In the second round of thought, the fact that mining and smoking are being side by side in the context of the salad law, I think that it is difficult to say, in itself, the result of the hasty government in which they try to link their various affairs in this way. Yet in this sense both areas are important, but let us start with the first, to which we could also say the initiative to improve the conditions for geothermal thermal recovery is hallelujah. They have finally discovered the miracle that has been available to Hungary for centuries, and you feel that there is finally something to be done about it. The steps that have been taken to move towards renewable energy use have already been mentioned to you before that ten years have been wasted in this respect. Ten years ago, I myself attended a ceremony that was the result, and was the result of the fact that in Szentes' surroundings, Szentes was handed over a heater that used geothermal energy to solve the heating of thousands of square meters of apartments and offices. Now you have completely excluded these options in the past period, but this is not the only area, because wind energy is also in the same category, you have excluded this possibility. [[13.10]] The justification is that energy can support our country's sovereignty in the long term in an incentive regulatory framework. I am saying that you have not used or taken advantage of this possibility as the opportunity available to some of the countries in Europe in general. In order to create a predictable regulatory environment, they want to resolve this through and through the Mining Inspectorate. I respectfully point out that, unfortunately, we are not always in a position to be transparent in the case of transactions that have so far been carried out through supervision or other transactions, that we know exactly what is happening. There are a number of questions. It is proposed to specify the detailed technical authorisation procedure for the exploration and exploration of thermal waters. This is welcome, but not when they get to the point that, in itself, when the conditions for the recovery of heat are improved, this is the intention, but they want to do so in such a way that the possibility of making it a priority investment is also added. If I take into account the past period when you have, in fact, ordered the status of the priority investment in sports, catering or transport developments and in agricultural developments one by one, a significant part of which serves private interests, I think we can assume that in this situation or in this area, and we cannot agree with the fact that in this form you seem to want to give discounts to your friends. Since 2010, the Orbán government has applied this solution without inhibition, and such investments enjoy a kind of outlaw. It is unacceptable that the law, which has been amended 40 times since 2010, is increasingly serving prestige investments in more and more areas, and, as I have said, accelerated, unobtrusive implementation of private investments and the seamless conduct of related utility and transport developments. But I can also add that improving the conditions for geothermal thermal recovery alone, as I said, is eligible, but at the same time it does not solve the problem alone. A sustainable, balanced mix of energy is needed in the long term, with an increasing share of renewable energy sources, which you have missed in recent years. We are after ten wasted years, while you continue to prioritize the use of natural gas of Russian origin, making it impossible not only to exploit wind energy, but also to install solar panels just a few weeks ago. All of this shows that this is your move, which is a step, but it seems that you want to go back to the selected beneficiaries. Finally, allow me to mention the other subject of the salad law, the consumption of electric cigarettes, and to add a sentence in this respect. In essence, this means that, instead of taking action to gradually reduce any product, the logical explanation of this legislative step can only be that the exploitation of the opportunities in the tobacco business and the further support of the beneficiaries of your tobacco system are more important to the government than the health of people. So whatever area I'm looking at, support for this bill is not possible on our part. Thank you so much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2022-11-10-62	Thank you very much, Congressman László Varju. I give the floor to Hajnalka Juhász, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2022-11-10-63	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Unfortunately, we are living in an energy crisis caused by the prolonged Ukrainian-Russian war and the failed EU sanctions policy. Under these circumstances, energy sovereignty and energy security are all the more appreciated. Due to the geological properties of our country, it has a positive potential for the exploitation and use of geothermal energy, which could support the long-term guarantee of our country's energy sovereignty. Based on the data published in the explanatory memorandum of the law, the use of geothermal energy would reduce the annual energy exposure of our country by up to 1-1.5 billion cubic metres of natural gas by 2030. It's a huge thing. This requires the establishment of a predictable and incentive regulatory system for which the framework for the exploitation and exploitation of geothermal energy would be ensured by the contract concluded with the Mining Inspectorate under the proposal. This form of authorisation would allow sufficient flexibility for both the State and the mining contractor. Sustainable use of the resource is important and it is important that the contract also covers the purpose of geothermal energy extraction, its exploitation form and the way in which the obligation to repress water is fulfilled in order to protect groundwater, geothermal potential. This is an extremely important part of the proposal. On this basis, the bill before us would entail amendments to a number of laws on the subject of certain mining and economic matters, as Mr State Secretary and my fellow Member have shown. It would, on the one hand, affect the Water Management Act and the Mining Act, since, under the proposal, the Mining Inspectorate also has the power to authorise the exploration, extraction and exploitation of geothermal energy by the production of thermal water. Thus, the substantive laws need to be amended accordingly in order to avoid legal uncertainty. Under the amendment of the Mining Act, the President of the Authority would be empowered to draw up detailed rules for the official contract relating to the activities listed above. Another objective of the bill is to encourage hydrocarbon extraction in the field of mining, as well as changes to accelerate infrastructure investments in the production of hydrocarbons. In view of this, the Act on Accelerating and Simplification of Investment of Priority Economic Interest would also cover investments in hydrocarbon research and production. Furthermore, the adoption of the bill would entail an amendment to the Law on the Supervisory Authority for Regulated Activities. In this respect, the Authority will issue a service card to persons carrying out official duties in the future in the course of carrying out activities related to the mining supervision. There was also the issue of tobacco retailing and further changing tobacco products, heating technology, which could be consumed in a legal framework appropriate to the marketing and advertising of plant and herbal products. The aim is primarily to protect minors against the harmful effects of these products, so it is an important aspect of the reform of the sanctioning system, in particular with regard to infringements of minors in particular. The changes therefore also affect the law on the protection of non-smokers and certain rules on the consumption and marketing of tobacco products, as well as the law on the fundamental conditions and certain limitations of economic advertising, on the control of smoking by minors and on the retail trade in tobacco products. The legislative amendment proposal introduces the concept of heating products and specifies that these products can only be marketed at the point of sale of tobacco products. [[13.20]] It is also worth mentioning the amendment to the excise duty law, which also regulates the issue of heated products from a tax point of view, whereby these products are placed in a separate category and will be subject to excise duty in the future. I believe that in such a situation, when energy sovereignty and our energy security are of paramount importance, there can be no question that these amendments and the bill should be supported. KDNP supports it. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-11-10-64	Thank you, Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2022-11-10-65	Mr President, Dear House, I listened with interest to the words of the speakers before me, and the lead speaker at KDNP was also sympathetic to her performance. I have to argue with one point. In essence, this proposal is trying to regulate three areas that are slightly linked or not linked, and if it were really intended to support the opposition in good faith, these three would have been finely separated and presented separately to the House, as we are quite certain that we can achieve a different synchronization in the case of tobacco products, and once again there is a different possibility of common agreement, if we are talking about, say, the use of geothermal energy. Let's start with where I can be more open, and I absolutely welcome the way we talked about something moving in geothermal energy. We called for this a good decade and a half ago. We were disappointed that, at that time and after 2010, we had not achieved a meaningful shift in the first government cycle, and I always say that the painful thing about these and the food industry is that we do not move in calm peace years. So, for the sake of national self-determination, these governments have not done enough, and now, when a situation of chaos comes and a crisis comes, we suddenly begin to rush to, uh, oops, that in the middle of the Carpathian Basin, we actually have a lot of gold reserves. And that's what I felt when food prices explode, fly away, and in an agricultural-based country there is a shortage of certain types of food produced in Hungary. I feel this in the field of energy, too, that 12 years would have been available, that the completely unilateral dependency that still exists in the field of energy policy in Hungary will be resolved. In some areas, this has even gotten worse in recent years, and I am very disappointed that we are now beginning to rush into areas where we have made investments, so if we do this in 12 years, we would now be much easier to overcome an international crisis than, say, neighbouring countries or the countries concerned. So the fact that something's moving, I welcome it. With regard to geothermals, the fact that the mining authority has jurisdiction over the story, and this is essentially justified by a kind of regulation over the area, and how much easier it is from the point of view of law enforcement, I dispute that. So if there are no necessary control mechanisms, which provide guarantees, whether on environmental or recultivation issues, that our inherited natural resources, which we would like to pass on to our grandchildren, can survive these years undamaged, if this is not guaranteed, are very bad. And here, with regard to the obligation to repress it, I should also note very rightly that I do not necessarily welcome the fact that there will be room for manoeuvre here. I say that this type of energy source can then be used and used under conditions where the possibility of protecting the medium is 100% available. If there are objective reasons that make this impossible, let us not decide within a space now and thus defined what will become of the given area, but be a clear obligation, an irrelatible obligation to protect what is ours, and what we want to pass on. With regard to repressing wells, I can essentially support the write-down of the total cost under a few years. I would even more support that, in the case of large and mega-enterprises, where there is no need for such support, we would think less about it, but in the case of businesses of a reasonable size and typically of Hungarian ownership, which are actually carrying out meaningful activities, there could be much more prominent, much more extensive support under certain plant sizes, and should be given in my view. So much for geothermal issues. At the same time, let us not go without saying that in recent weeks the Hungarian Cement, Concrete and Lime Industry Association has shown serious support for the abolition of the mining fee, so that interventions that can again benefit oligarchs can benefit individuals in Hungary whose business interests are exclusively in their hands and generate insane profits, and let us be honest, of course, they can also favour companies that have a reasonable, fair activity. I could even be a partner in balancing the competitive advantage of importers, in other ways, of course, but I do not dispute the basic philosophy. What I am amazed at is: if our goal is to have a Hungarian production and supply industry, then what has happened in the last 12 years? What happened when they let it go down, and, by the way, not only since 2010, but also before, historical production capacity? Where were they when an amazing import demand and dependence developed in the area of almost the entire construction stock range? Where were you when these raw materials prices went so far that they even split the value of the forms of government aid? Just think of the attic construction programme: by the time it could be used in substance, the price of raw materials had caused the situation that only half of the amount of aid granted had been granted, which was originally available. Around 2010, they made a promise that they could support up to 10 percent of the housing stock every year in building insulation in order to make substantial efficiency investments. If they had kept their word, the entire Hungarian real estate could have been renewed in a supported way by a year or two ago. We would have gone into a crisis in such a way that the costs of your debt war would not have fallen into the hands of the Hungarian citizens at this level, but neither the panel program nor a substantial renewable programme would have entered the horizon, and let us even consider the case of the entire bleeding out of the solar industry, where a supported programme, although limited, was available, but when prices and costs were lost, the government no longer provided any meaningful assistance to offset the costs. And when this would have consumed substantial budgetary resources, crowds were discouraged from participating in this at all levels by eliminating the entry option, thus showing their attitude towards renewable energy sources. And we're still waiting to see when there's gonna be a panel program on sane terms. There would have been absolutely great solutions to that. I am not a fan of researching community funds for all these areas, because the Hungarian budget would have had room for manoeuvre, let's say, for a lease program with a public background, but the energy efficiency of buildings is specifically the area where there would have been a community resource, and the Hungarian government would have had the opportunity to open this up to the Hungarian people, but it did not. He said he'd give it to the public institutions to renovate it from this source, not to the public anymore. And that was a very bad decision. At this time of crisis, it is certain how much hundreds of billions of dollars this failed government decision will cost. Thirdly, the proposal refers to the concept of heating product. They are basically trying to get them into tobacco stores by trying to cannibalize a market based on a government recognition. The fact is that they found that excise duty income from these heating products could not be realised, because it is obviously a competitive product sold in tobacco stores. What's the solution? Not necessarily in the interest of protecting the health of citizens, but in any case by expanding the portfolio of tobacco shops and amending the laws so that the tax revenue generated is already passed on to the government and the revenue after the sale to tobacco sellers. So I would suggest this to be considered, because if it really was to preserve health, then it would probably have been possible to apply the advertising law in a much different, much more dramatic way. The fact is that making the journey to a much tougher business interest can be achieved in order to achieve portfolio expansion by the national tobacco shops concerned. I don't know what's going to happen later, that they're going to sell food and drink there without any restrictions, that they might want to supply whole villages from where they're closing the post office, and that the doctor's office is now shutting down as planned. It might be the only tobacco store where you'll be serving everyone. Obviously, this is not a tempting vision, which is why I propose that you reconsider this proposal, and since there are three very serious areas in front of us in this package, and unfortunately none of them could be implemented in the way that this could be acceptable to an opposition representative from the front and the hip, my request is to redesign this whole package because it has very serious parts. So I could very, very much support the expansion of geothermal energy under fair and fair conditions, but in all other cases we have very, very serious concerns. Thank you for your attention. [[13.30]]
u2022-11-10-66	Thank you very much, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. I now give the floor to Congressman Bence Tordai, the lead speaker of the Group of Dialogue.
u2022-11-10-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, We should be pleased to note that the governing parties have finally seen the need for a green-energy turnaround and have turned to renewable energies, as the bill before us is also about re-regulation of geothermal energy. But the sad thing is that they do this in such a hasty, incompetent, amateur manner as they usually do their green energy measures. As unjustified and unprepared were the banning of wind power plants or the earlier taxing of solar panels, and now the blockage of their connection to the grid, they are also engaged in the same way as a cataract blacksmith to facilitate the exploitation of geothermal energy capacities. We understand that things are happening in this country recently as Viktor Orbán likes to see, as he imagines, only the sad situation is that he doesn't know everything. We fear that he acquired a significant part of his knowledge on this subject when he was in school, the last time he was in the eighties, and we know that in the eighties, the disk was that energy was produced in the Russian nuclear reactor, or if we use geothermal energy, it looks like we're bringing up high mineral water from thermal wells, so we're using it, and then we're dumping it in the fields, or we're letting it into the rivers and lakes. The only thing is that 40 years have passed and the world has changed, science, technology is ahead, and fortunately, environmental considerations are much more important when making similar decisions. For example, if there is someone among you who dares to tell Viktor Orbán of this type of new developments, then you could tell us that there are such things as heat pumps, so there is not only this thing called the Old School thermal well, so it would be worth not optimizing it for the latter. But in your time of government, at least until now, it has been forbidden for the public to connect to thermal water district heating systems. There is now a city in Transdanubia where the district heating system using the waste water of the spa runs around the entire settlement, but it is only forbidden by you, making it legally impossible for households, private homes and family houses to connect to this environmentally friendly, renewable district heating system. I would also like to inform you that, although it is not usually observed, there is still legislation, the environmental law. In relation to the former, they are trying to make all kinds of gestures to the European Commission, tightening it up, and now social consultation can be heard again. I'd like to inform you that there are some impact assessments that need to be carried out before a legislative amendment of this type. We do not see this impact assessment very much, let us flaunt it; I think that the President-in-Office will overlook this, not see it as a forbidden tool, but as proof of a reassuring development that there is an impact assessment somewhere, but that he has surely slipped between all the things they have to do, which we know well that Brussels is forcing you to do, and that is why they are unable to carry out sufficient quality and quantity of legislative activities. We're very sorry, but we'd be happy to help, if we have the environmental impact assessment, we'll be happy to upload it to a publicly available site instead of you. The environmental law also provides that if similar alternatives are available, there should always be support for smaller environmental damage, and it should not be possible to allow solutions without repressing thermal water, i.e. the most orthodox use of geothermal energy, in this amendment. It would be nice to really notice what's on the calendar, not 1982, but 2022, the year we're writing. Then, let us say, it would be good to pay attention not only to the use of this truly significant geothermal energy capacity that reduces energy exposure, which, fortunately for us, is available to Hungary, but also to pay attention to the protection of our surface waters and the protection of our soils, because they are at least as critical as the overall ecosystem in general. So I would like to ask that this type of amendment should then be transposed, not to create the relevant laws, primarily and practically only in the light of the energy crisis affecting fossil fuels. Because in this form, this amendment of the law is a legislative failure, and it is adapted to the level of knowledge in high school in the 1980s, and it does not meet the basic legislative and environmental requirements. So when we get back to the school example, they say, "Sit down, girl, son, number one." But it's not just about geothermal energies, it's also about re-regulation of domestic hydrocarbon extraction. In this regard, I have already said in my previous speech what fundamental problems your energy policy is facing, so I would not repeat that now, on my Facebook page, people who are interested in this can look back. In the same way, I would not agree to the regulation of tobacco products that are not fully covered. To be honest, I don't know how this proposal fits with the amendment of mining laws, why they want to make salad laws at all costs, even if it's not such a very mixed salad, it's just a two-component salad. I beg you to stop doing that, feel free to submit a separate bill, hold ParLex's system, there's no point in what you're doing in this genre. So I'd like to ask you to follow the basic legislative principles, do the work you've done so far, do your homework, and then you can come back here with your proposals before the Parliament. Thank you for your attention. [[Laszlo Varju applauds.]]
u2022-11-10-68	Thank you very much, Congressman Bence of Tordai. I now give the floor to Mr László Toroczkai, the lead speaker of the Group of Mi Hazank.
u2022-11-10-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The fact is that I think this bill is inconvenient, because we are obviously looking at a salad in which the proposal for mining has come together in a completely incomprehensible way; let us say, to protect non-smokers, we do not know how it is coming, nor do we understand advertising activities very well. But let's talk a little bit about why we hold it, why we think this bill should be rejected regardless of how weird it looks. First of all, if non-smokers are to be protected, they should not start by painting the tramps red-white-green, national-colored, or not by discovering that more and more people are going to do so in the case of so-called heating products, then this should be introduced here, in the hope of profit training, into these national-colored tobacco Trafics, not to protect non-smokers, but to protect them with something else. They will be able to negotiate economic advertising activities with us when they finally hear the need to introduce a digital tax on large global tech companies, because for some reason the government does not dare to deal with them. What may be suitable for a substantive debate in this whole, otherwise unsuitable salad law, is legislation on geothermal energy recovery. We consider this important because the government could have had an extremely important task over the last 12 years to discover that Hungary and the entire Carpathian Basin are particularly capable of getting the government to think more seriously about geothermal energy recovery. Compared to this, we see the same ad hoc government on the part of the government as we did a few hours ago when we talked about the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. We don't see any serious concepts, we don't see strategy, we see rushes, and we see these salad laws. Why do we consider it very important, beyond the fact that we have good natural conditions, why do we consider geothermal energy recovery so important? [[13.40]] Among other things, because, in the current energy crisis, we see how important it is to have an independent energy policy, to have a basis for it, and if we could have used geothermal energy much better on the basis of our natural characteristics, it would have been very good if, in the last 12 years, many useless programmes, such as the HUF 6000 billion Roma programme, had been able to deal with geothermal energy utilisation instead of wasted. We are pleased that Minister Palkovic, for example, said in Brussels on 24 October that by 2050 we would like to reduce our current use of natural gas by a third. By the way, we can agree with that, as well as the fact that there should be as much domestic extraction as possible. But it is also very important to talk about the fact that, in the case of geothermal energy recovery, we are missing one thing very, very much here. 21/C. According to paragraph 6 of Section 6, the mining business operator is to fully repress the extracted water in relation to the technical and geological possibilities. We do not consider this conditional mode sufficient. In order to protect our water resources and, in particular, our thermal water resources, we believe it is necessary to establish a contribution obligation after the difference between the thermal water extracted and repressed, which motivates and makes the mining businessman interested in the fullest repression. We know that if we do not define this in this way, but leave it in such a conditional way in the text, then obviously the extracted thermal water will not normally be repressed, which can then cause obvious heat load and damage in our surface waters while we are playing the future. So we consider the obligation to repress back to be extremely important. We would like to see as many examples as possible that come from the government, not only an initiative from local governments, but also a government initiative that can enable the energy supply of entire municipalities. There is a good example of this, by the way. There is Miskolc's example. It seems that the Geothermal project in Miskolc, which provides hot water and thermal energy for a significant part of the Miskolc settlements, is working pretty well. We would very much like to see them start implementing such projects, even national ones, not by 2050, but in the coming years. If the expected resources from the European Union arrive, the expected funds for which the government seems willing to do anything and lie down before Brussels, then it would be very important to implement such concepts, in particular the strategy, broken down by years, and not such ad hoc governance, and then perhaps there will be no such proposals for salad law that we will not be able to support in this form. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-11-10-70	Thank you very much, Congressman László Toroczkai. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Now we have two-minute speeches, but we don't have a candidate. Other speeches will follow. [[There's no candidate.]] No report. I'm asking if someone would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] No report. Then, Honourable Parliament, the general debate is closed and I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Attila Steiner, who obviously wishes to respond to what was said in the debate.
u2022-11-10-71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to thank you for your professionally motivated contributions. I believe that energy sovereignty is a matter of national strategy and national security today, and therefore the government is doing everything in its power to strengthen our energy security and to reduce our high dependence on energy imports. We have plans to make even greater use of domestic energy supplies. This will allow us to have a diversified energy mix, i.e. Hungary can stand on more feet with regard to energy sources. We see that increased use of geothermal energy can significantly strengthen our country's self-sufficiency and relieve the pressure to reduce our import exposure. I would also like to point out that, contrary to what has been said, Hungary is already at the forefront of the use of geothermal energy in the European Union, and we are already the fourth largest geothermal energy users. And it is also true that nothing has happened in the last 12 years, because the use of geothermal energy in Hungary has doubled over the past 12 years. Here, the government supports various projects in both the district heating sector, how geothermal energy can be further involved in district heating systems, and we have a support programme with a budget of HUF 6 billion on how to significantly reduce the risk of geothermal drilling. So I think that these are very important measures, too, but the proposal that you are about to have is going to speed up this process even more, and we want geothermal energy to gain even more space in the coming period. Basically, I also think that there is a forward-looking change in the legislation, and the basic principle will actually be to require repression. With regard to tobacco products, I would like to point out that we have also sent the legislative amendment proposal to the European Union, and the European Commission has approved this amendment proposal, which means that the European Union agrees with the aim of reducing addiction and protecting minors in this case. What we see is that there is a high level of visibility, not only in terms of health risks, but also in terms of consumer groups, because at the moment it is possible for anyone to obtain products from anywhere, and there is basically no credible information about the age of consumers, so there is also the risk of Hungary's efforts to protect minors. So this is the situation that this bill would like to deal with and close this regulatory gap, so to speak. So in all these respects, I would ask the ladies and gentlemen of the House to support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-11-10-72	Thank you very much, Attila Steiner, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, We have until 4 p.m. on Friday to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 5th meeting of 2026. General discussion of the proposal for a decision on the National Environment Programme until closure. The government referral is H/1834. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mrs Anikó Raisz, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Technology and Industry, author of the item on the agenda.
u2022-11-10-73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I am honoured to present you with the 5th national environmental programme until 2026 and the proposal for a parliamentary decision declaring its adoption. In addition to the major challenges of today, the corona virus epidemic, the war in our neighbourhood and the unprecedented drought climate change, attention must also be paid to environmental and nature protection. That is why I think it is very important that, in order to comply with the Fundamental Law, the National Assembly receives a comprehensive picture of the environmental status of our country from time to time, based on the legislation on environmental protection, thus identifying the main challenges of the next period and identifying what we need to do. The programme is a comprehensive strategy paper on environmental issues, which sets out the country's objectives in this regard and the tasks and means needed to achieve them, taking into account our country's capabilities, the long-term interests and future development goals of society, as well as the obligations arising from global responsibility, international cooperation and EU membership. [[13.50]] Due to the complexity of environmental issues, the programme is horizontal in nature, affects society and the economy as a whole, and seeks to ensure effective sustainability in all areas. The 4th environmental programme setting out the previous period has been completed, the main results of which were presented to Parliament by the government together with the new programme. Dear House, The overall objective of the 5th National Environment Programme is to improve Hungary's environmental status and ensure the conditions for sustainable development. It aims to achieve this overall objective within four strategic and two horizontal objectives. These include improving environmental conditions for human health and quality of life, greening and strengthening the circular functioning of the economy, preserving natural values and resources and increasing the environmental awareness of society. The programme builds on the progress made over the past period as progress has been made in a number of areas, including the circular green economy. In the previous period of the 4th programme for the period 2015-2020, the recovery rate of waste generated increased and the share of waste recovered decreased. Green transport opportunities have increased and the demand for environmentally friendly consumption has increased, chemical drinking water quality has improved and health risks due to drinking water pollutants have been reduced, the proportion of apartments connected to the sewer network has increased to a large extent and the proportion of properly purified waste water has increased. Nearly two-and-a-half times the size of the agricultural land involved in organic farming has increased. The area of nature habitats covers more than 36 percent of our country. Our natural values are also outstanding in international comparison. Environmental education and awareness-raising programmes have increased. At present, one in four children in our country can go to a green nursery and one in three to go to ecoschools. The programme proposes solutions to existing or expected new environmental challenges such as climate change. As a result of the implementation of the programme, the coherence between the economy and the environment will be strengthened, contributing to the promotion of greening. In addition to improving the environment, greening has a positive impact on reducing resource dependency and increasing competitiveness and employment. The implementation of the programme will also contribute to reducing the economic downturn caused by the pandemic and addressing the risks of a war emergency. Taking all this into account, the main elements of Programme 5 are the creation of a healthy environment and the efficient and efficient use of resources, which together increase the resilience of society and the economy. The objectives of the 5th National Environment Programme will also be supported by the sources of the European Union's long-term budgetary periods 2021-27. A significant amount is planned for water management and disaster risk reduction, the development of circular economic systems and sustainability, renewable energy management and other priority areas for environmental and nature protection in the, 21-27 cycle. The basic mission of the decision before you is to define national environmental and conservation objectives for the next period and to lay the foundations for measures to achieve them. At the same time, in the spirit of deregulation, it withdraws the previous decision on the completed programme 4. I would ask this House to discuss and accept the proposal for a resolution that has been tabled. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2022-11-10-74	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Anikó Raisz. Dear Parliament, The keynote speeches will now take place, each within a 15-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Mr János Bencsik, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2022-11-10-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Madam Secretary. The common denominator of different sectoral national economic aspects and interests and the synthesization of them in a single social value and interest field seems almost impossible, but the national environmental programme should nevertheless attempt to do so every five years. To this end, the Fundamental Law provides a small handhold, provided that we ourselves consider the protection of natural resources and biodiversity, which are the common heritage of the nation, as fundamental values. These are the most important cornerstones of the created world, which determine the living conditions and basic living conditions of ourselves and future generations. The presented NKP is practically a strategic design document, a guiding thread for the preservation and sustainable use of natural resources that we share with many species living with us. A framework in which we look at environmental, social and economic aspects together, but at the same time the environmental aspects that ensure our living conditions are given a special light. Ladies and gentlemen, We are now holding in our hands a strategic document that draws the attention of all of us to the right way to use the environment, to personal responsibility, to the harmonisation of different social and economic interests in a transparent way, to the holistic approach, to the simultaneous consideration of short, medium and long term aspects, to sustainable space use, to social justice, to the principle of sustainable use of local resources. The NKP also attempts to effectively link and enforce its main objectives with existing sectoral strategies, in line with the domestic governance and parliamentary strategic framework. Indeed, there is a stake here: at the same time ensuring the right to a healthy environment, the sustainability of the level of employment that provides livelihoods, saving resources, controlling energy costs, reducing the country's energy dependency, promoting the restoration of natural habitats, supporting the spread of natural farming, and taking evaluable steps to successfully adapt to the adverse effects of climate change. Dear Parliament, What does this mean in practice, what must be done to ensure that these principles are applied in everyday life? I could also say now that the national environmental programme presented to us needs to be adopted in a short time. This will certainly be the case, but it is worth listening to the different and, in many cases, the same points of view, taking into account the possible paths to achieving this goal, and understanding that highlighting some of the interests in a polarised way may be useful for a full understanding of the complex framework, but a stubborn attachment to it can make it impossible to take small, sometimes painful steps towards sustainability. We in the Fidesz Group see the need to strengthen the coherence between the economy and the environment, which can help the greening of the Hungarian economy, i.e. the spread of materials and energy-saving technologies, the acceleration of the transition to the circular economy. We must take into account the reduction of atmospheric pollutants, the maintenance of biodiversity, the rehabilitation of the damaged environment and the proportionate fulfilment of our international obligations. (László Földi in the notary seat, Béla Mihálffy, Sándor Berki will be replaced by Dezső Believing.) As a matter of fact, you might wonder what it costs to present society. It can undoubtedly be concluded that there are serious burdens involved in the transition and that its pace must therefore be determined taking into account the capacity of society to carry a burden. The social impact of the transition, the cost increase often associated with the emergence of new green technologies, must be taken into account and the costs of compensating them. In addition, it can be said that a lower level of additional resources may arise if the funds already available to achieve the objectives of the NKP are used in a coordinated manner, therefore effectively and in line with the strategic objectives. Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz fraction considers the national environmental programme up to 2026 suitable for discussion and acceptance. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-11-10-76	Thank you, Congressman János Bencsik. I give the floor to Vice-President Lajos Oláh, Member of the DK Group's lead speaker. [[14.00]]
u2022-11-10-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Dear Secretary of State, There have been very nice words from the government and the Fidesz Group here, and this House can handle a lot of things, but as soon as you go out on the street, reality comes to light, and we see that Hungary is in great trouble, and in terms of environmental protection, it has been in a lot of trouble since you have been in government. Here's the bill. Who's your promoter? Let's get out of here. Zsolt Semjén, the chief hunter of the government, is trying to present a bill on nature conservation, and Palkovic, I say this with caution, Minister, we do not know this precisely, one of the most significant representatives of the industrial lobby, who very often opposes the stated, unspoken objective of the law. But how did you begin? With a strong kick, they broke the door to the environment and decided to eliminate the Ministry of Environment. I think when they talk about how important it is to protect the environment, to eliminate the ministry, that is, in itself, a little bit, let's say, contradictory. Besides, it was not enough, they thought that if they started on this road, they should also terminate the green ombudsman institution, because why should greenombudsman be in this country, because we can do everything we want in green topics. You have destroyed the well-functioning regulatory oversight system, and the new structure you set up is much less efficient. We're talking about structure, but where's the environment? We could ask. Which wallet? Who is responsible for this area? The agrarian who wasn't even a promoter of this story? How come there's no one here from the agricultural purse when it comes to environmental protection? ! Where's the forest here? And I could tell you more. There's a man here from one of the wallets, but you've scattered the environment, which in itself raises an operational problem, and it can't be run normally. Are you presenting this bill while we are hearing that it is possible that Minister Palkovic has resigned because the government refuses to move towards green energy? Does it show that the government hates green energy at a level that could cost a minister his job? No matter why he resigned, one fact is: you disabled the solar panel a few weeks ago, while we are talking about the 5th National Environment Programme. A few weeks ago, in the middle of the energy crisis, you made rules that would make the solar panel impossible. DK has proposed that there should be a zero-percent VAT on solar panels, that the product fee should be abolished, that the plug-in systems should be allowed and that we should support network development with serious EU resources. You have solved this in a simpler way: they forbade refueling, i.e. they said that there should be no solar cells in Hungary. Many of you consider wind power to be a complement to solar panels, as long as you've been on the steering wheel, you've been banned. That is why I say that since you have been ruling, environmental protection has been in great trouble in Hungary. Maybe we'll see it started, because in many cases the wind could generate energy just when we can't rely on solar panels. You said it wasn't good, but that's not true. At operating wind farms, it's about 20-25 percent, at the solar panels it's 15-18 percent, so the justification you've been telling me doesn't hold up. Let's keep moving. What's happening? Here are our big lakes. You are talking about the environmental programme, while we see a hotel being built at Lake Tata, we see that at Lake Fertő there is virtually no access to large beaches, and a boat can enter from the Austrian side. Compared to that, you're talking about an environmental programme. At Lake Velence, the whole area is closed, and Tihany is already trying to start the third different installation program, so that virtually no tree can survive in Tihany. I've been there a whole promenade, so I suggest you come, but I'd be happy to take the secretary of state up there, and the local residents can't get close to Lake Balaton, because it's so important for you to be on the beach that you want to build the promenades. They take away our great lakes from the people, and you bring in an environmental program? ! It would be easier if I watched the scandals of the past period, were first corrected, and then these programs could follow, and then they might also notice that it may not be normal for the National Bank to introduce Lake Balaton's water in a small sewer, because it looks so good. Dear Secretary of State, Please write down these things, take some time to look at these scandals for once; I think it's worth it. But not only our lakes are being taken from us in silence, but the forests of Hungary are also in danger: the legislation that has been created for a few months, which allows us to kill our forests, is equal to the destruction of nature. Even then, crowds moved against the cutting of protected state forests in case the government came to their senses and would not allow them to be cut. You are abducting our common treasures, our nature from our citizens. Perhaps you are aware of the forest closure in the Venice Mountains. Imagine, there's a settlement, 26 percent of which is blocked by a fence, you can't go there! Oh, yeah, it's a hunting ground, and the hunting house on it gets state support, and the local government found out about it later, because you didn't even give them credit for sitting down and negotiating with them. They have a great strategy, especially for civilians, because they keep bleeding out environmental NGOs instead of looking at them as partners. There are countless places in the world where civil society organisations are able to carry out quasi-state tasks in the field of environmental protection. Dear Secretary of State, I don't know, you and the Fideszes-KDNP Members noticed that the proposal for the implementation of the 4th National Environment Programme was submitted after we received the 5th. Well, it's normal to talk about what's number five, and we don't talk about what they've done, what they've done, what source, the people responsible have done what's in their hands! ? The way we talk about 5 is we didn't discuss what's going on in 4th, what's the score? Then a normal government withdraws this proposal, discusses what happened in 4th, and then we come back and we talk about 5th, but if it's not important to protect the environment, we just have to grind it all down, we could do it all at once, because this story doesn't matter. How can I say that I understand if 4 is not so important, because we now see that we have received a very large substance in many ways, in detail, in depth, but what is missing from it? Responsible, deadline, source. These little things aren't in there. Well, that makes it hard for you to understand this program, which you put on the table, because that means that there's a picture, someone went into the ministry, drew something, and then there's something, and when you put in the 6th, you're gonna put your opinion on it, and then it doesn't seem to anyone that there's nothing going on in this whole world. Allow me to mention just a few points about the substance. The production area is unstoppable, while the government proudly announces new greenfield investments. Today, the best quality soils are not safe either, see the BMW factory is established in one of the best quality areas in the country. Where are the planned measures to stop the continuous crop eclipse? They talk about a monitoring system for large lakes. That's great. You get a monitoring report every day that they cut down reeds here too, and that's not what a building is built there! Our large lakes will not be in good environmental condition by operating a monitoring system, but if they stop robbing them, they will return the beach to the population if they cease the reed-destructive activity, if they stop the meaningless megaloman investment planned for Lake Fertő, in which the state itself is thinking about building hotels. [[14.10]] But we could also continue with grassland: in 97 there was 12.3 percent of the country's territory, now 8.1 percent. How do you intend to preserve grasslands if they have continuously decreased in the last five-year cycle? How is it possible that solar parks are allowed on grasslands? How do they want to preserve the open pasture landscape of Hungary if they keep talking about livestock farms, as if they were the habitats of grazing animals? The whole material lacks comprehensive, cross-cutting thinking and action on lawns. There was talk of organic farming. How do you intend to achieve a very noble objective? The way they consciously destroyed the Kishantos bio-economy? Because we don't see any other solution in your file. What we see is that you allow wood cutting in strategic areas, in order to do so, by government decree, you have also allowed cuttings in natural areas and in Natura 2000 areas. What kind of conservation improvement can be shown in domestic forest areas if logging continues to be carried out in highly protected forests in national parks? Are you planning to change that? The Hungarian government still refuses to recognise the dangers and damage caused by the spread of these species, plant and animal species. Instead of acting, the American acacia on the list of one hundred of the most dangerous invasive species in the EU has been classified as Hungaricum. Dear Secretary of State, It can be seen that, since you are in government, environmental protection in Hungary is in danger. You have abolished the Ministry of the Environment; you have dismembered the environment; you have placed it in different wallets; you have decommissioned the authority; you have abolished the green ombudsman; you have tabled this law without having been reported before with the previous five-year law, and now you are bringing in a proposal that does not answer a lot of important, racially serious questions. What I can suggest to you is that this proposal be withdrawn, that we first discuss what happened in the fourth, that you have a meaningful discussion and that you write those responsible, deadlines and resources for this material. Come back and let's have a meaningful dialogue. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2022-11-10-78	Thank you very much, Vice President Lajos Oláh, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mrs Hajnalka Juhász, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2022-11-10-79	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Before I go to the environmental programme, let me respond to my fellow Member Oláh's speech: a long speech, half of which is not true. Why are we saying that wind power plants are banned in Hungary? That's not true! Then I guess you know how many wind power plants there are in Hungary. How many? [[Dr. Lajos Oláh: I've got him 12 kilometers away! The president's ringing the bell.]] How many wind farms? We have 180 wind farms with a capacity of 320 megawatts. [[Dr. Lajos Oláh: How many permits did Fidesz issue? The president's ringing the bell.]] A wind power plant with a capacity of 2 megawatts, I've listened to you, and I hope you'll listen to me, these are old wind power plants. And, by the way, the Ministry itself, if you had read the statement by the Secretary of State or colleagues, would have dealt with the subject. Secondly, I would also like to note with regard to the deployment of new ones that it is not banned, but that we have tightened up the regulation. And speaking of Hungary's environmental achievements, I didn't know or hear, or perhaps I didn't notice, that Hungary had ratified the Paris Agreement among the first countries. Somehow, I couldn't bring this up. On the other hand, first of all, we have agreed that climate neutrality for 2050 will be achieved with a legally binding force for ourselves. 2030 and Fit for 55: we are among the first Member States to make the most serious efforts in sustainability, the circular economy and environmental objectives. And on the subject of the national environmental programme: Madam Secretary of State presented a wide range of points, I would like to briefly highlight some points. This is the 5th six-year national environmental programme, which aims to address our country's environmental objectives, as well as the measures and instruments needed to achieve them, with a particular emphasis on the horizontal nature of environmental protection. As the State Secretary stressed, four strategic objectives will be set out in the programme, supported by 22 strategic areas and specific objectives and measures in these areas. In addition, nine strategic instruments contribute to the implementation of the defined lines of action. The first strategic objective that I would highlight is to improve the environmental conditions of human health and quality of life, to reduce the impact of environmental pressures, i.e. to ensure a good quality of life and the direct environmental conditions of a healthy life. The implementation of the programme would reduce the environmental burden, for example by improving air quality, as good quality air is a necessary prerequisite for a healthy environment. Similarly, the right enshrined in our Fundamental Law, access to healthy drinking water, is important. This is extremely important, so ensuring this is also a significant strategic area. In addition to increasing the quality and safety of drinking water supply, service, attention must also be paid to reducing network losses, preventing secondary drinking water quality deterioration and to strengthening the use of conscious water by the public. The protection of our green surfaces and the development of green infrastructure contribute to improving and improving the quality of life, which not only increases the value of a given settlement environmentally and aesthetically, but also improves its competitiveness, population and health protection. These conditions also affect the city's climate, air quality and soil water supply. The differences in these positive effects can be seen in particular during the summer heat waves, which is why it is also important to develop green areas in a sustainable way, to care for them and to improve the state of green infrastructure. It is important to achieve this strategic objective, as the implementation of these activities to reduce the burden on the environment will reduce atmospheric pollutants, greenhouse gas emissions and improve the safety and quality of water utilities. The natural wealth of our country represents outstanding values, as stressed by the Secretary of State, so it is not surprising that the second strategic objective is to protect, restore and use natural values and resources, since the protection of these values includes the conservation of biodiversity, the strengthening of nature and landscape protection, the protection and sustainable use of soils and our waters, and environmental remediation. The achievement of this objective is expected to improve biodiversity protection, improve the proportion of water in good condition, and also achieve success in restoring the damaged environment. A third and also important strategic goal is to improve resource saving and efficiency, greening the economy and strengthening its circular functioning. The overall objective is to raise awareness and support the efficient management of natural resources, which is suitable for the prevention of pollution. Particular attention should be paid to ensuring that improved public well-being does not involve increasing environmental pressures and reducing environmental pressures related to production and consumption, thus supporting the uptake of environmentally friendly technologies. [[14.20]] In view of this, the coherence between the economy and the environment would be strengthened in the implementation of the programme, and this is very important. There would be a greater emphasis on greening in investment and an increase in green opportunities and technologies. This strategic objective also includes a number of areas, including improving energy saving and efficiency, and increasing renewable energy use, where it is of particular importance that sustainability and environmental aspects be taken into account when meeting domestic energy needs. Energy efficiency, energy saving and increasing the share of renewable energy production will also help to strengthen our energy security and reduce our share of energy imports, which is of particular importance in the current war emergency and in the energy crisis caused by the European Union's failed sanctions policy. However, waste management has an important role to play in the saving of resources and in increasing the efficient use of resources. This has already been reflected in the 2020 climate and natural action plan, where special attention has been paid to the elimination of illegal landfills or the cessation of single-use plastics. It is also an important priority to prevent waste generation, to increase the proportion of separate waste collection and the potential for reuse of such waste. The transition to the circular economy will reduce the amount of waste generated and increase the recovery rate. It is also of great importance for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, in addition to reducing emissions at global level, to increase esophageal capacity. Adapting to changing climates is important in this area. In order to reduce the impact of climate change and to adapt to it, forestry is also given a key role, in view of this our national forest strategy, our national forestry programme or our national forest management programme. The strategy aims to increase the extent of forest and wooded areas and, by 2050, the target is the current 26-27 percent coverage considered optimal. This is a huge step forward and a goal. Improving environmental safety is the fourth key strategic objective, i.e. to protect the population from the damage caused by extreme natural phenomena and disasters, as well as from industrial accidents and economic activities, and to reduce the extent of possible damage. This will avoid adverse effects on the environment and human health. In addition to one of the most important objectives of the strategy, the document sets out two horizontal objectives. This is, on the one hand, the aim of all of us: to strengthen the environmental awareness of society, because broad thinking and environmental education is a step forward in the transition to sustainable consumption and lifestyle, in integrating environmental awareness and environmental responsibility into our lives and activities at all levels. The other horizontal goal is to improve our capacity to adapt to climate change, which also affects all sectors and all sectors of society. Finally, the lines of action and measures on the objectives identify a wide range of tasks in order to make the programme's Hungary, our beautiful and wonderful country, represented in the long-term environmental futures, realistic. From the point of view of the programme, it is very important that this not only examines the possibilities of action from a single perspective, since, as in the motto of the programme before us, there is also a quote from David Attenborough: the future of life on earth depends on our ability to act. Many individuals do their best, but real success will only be achieved if there are radical changes in society, economy and politics. This is why the programme is of paramount importance. Thank you very much, Mrs Secretary of State, to all the staff of the Ministry who participated in this and we support you from KDNP. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-10-80	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Dr. Zita Gurmai, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2022-11-10-81	Thank you very much. Mr President, Madam Secretary! Dear fellow Members, National environmental programmes for six years are a comprehensive framework for our country's environmental policy objectives and actions. The fourth national environmental programme for the period 2015-2020 has been completed and a new environmental programme is therefore needed. The main strategic objectives of the fourth national environmental programme are the same as those of the current fifth programme, which could, of course, be good. However, the fourth programme has already been a broader strategy than the previous, but the government's intention to fully implement it has been lacking in recent years. I am confident, Madam Secretary, that this may work now. The main point of the fourth programme was the integration of environmental authorities into government offices. The negative impact of this centralisation direction has been confirmed over the past five years. Several projects, which also triggered the protest of the local population, were granted permission from government agencies. My fellow Member, Lajos Oláh, spoke earlier about the investment in Lake Fertő. This is a seriously environmental-destructive hotel construction, as well as the extremely noise- and environmental-polluting Komárom battery factory, or another battery plant currently designed for Debrecen, which is an extremely environmental-damaging Chinese giga investment. Battery production is an extremely water- and energy-intensive industry, but it is not available from water, even to serve the needs of the population. But we can think of Lake Vekeri near Debrecen, whose water virtually evaporated this summer, and the lake simply disappeared. The overall objectives of the fourth and fifth programmes are the same, as I said, to ensure the environmental status of Hungary and the environmental conditions for sustainable development. Its strategic objectives include improving environmental conditions for human health and quality of life, reducing the impact of environmental pressures, protecting natural values and resources and, of course, greening the economy. Although the fifth programme also makes comprehensive commitments, the government's attitude over recent years does not seem to be a reassuring solution. The government's commitment to environmental protection is highly questionable in addition to the otherwise important objectives. In recent years, we have seen just how little the government is interested in improving the environmental conditions of human health and quality of life. Naturalists, local communities, voters are obliged to turn to opposition parties, often to the MSZP for help. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Very often...]] Cases in this category could be classified for a long time. I'd be honored if you'd give me your opinion in two minutes. Thank you. In order to protect our natural waters, the Constitutional Court stated on the initiative of the MSZP that the integration of coastal bands should be restricted. We have made it impossible for them to build a residential park for every square meter on the waterfront, not at Lake Balaton or anywhere else. The government would also have liked to have made this possible, and often gave an exemption from local construction regulations and other restrictions with a government decree. Even the Constitutional Court had to say that the exception to the fundamental rights contained in the Fundamental Law can only be regulated by law, which cannot be overwritten by the Government regulation. For months, 20-30 trucks of waste were covered in soil in the area of the Zsámbék landfill. Because of illegal practices, the site was already closed once, but later the landfill, which is a threat to the local population, continued again. The samples taken from official monitoring stations showed serious pollution and therefore local concerns are well founded on the health risks that have arisen. In April 2021, proceedings were initiated following the complaint by Mr Bernadett Szél. More than a year has passed since then, unfortunately no progress has been made. Therefore, I myself submitted a written question on the matter, for which I did not receive a substantive answer. [[14.30]] In the case of the airspace noise generated by Ferihegy airport, the voters' complaints were also ignored for a long time, the increase in air traffic was drastically underestimated, but it took years to deal with the problem at all. The MSZP has undertaken the XIV. 1 and XVIII the representation of district residents was extremely dissatisfied, and perhaps after that more attention was paid to evening and night machines in order to reduce the noise burden. Later, the protection of the inhabitants of the part of the city was complemented by a window exchange programme. A similar problem is the inadequacy of the legal environment, which was most highlighted in a recent Constitutional Court decision. The Municipality of Zugló wanted to protect the healthy environment of the people living here against the state wishing to incorporate everything, but according to the Constitutional Court, the right to a healthy environment does not constitute the right granted by the Fundamental Law to the municipality, which it could reasonably rely on. In short, the municipality cannot defend the right of the local community against the State. The local civilians had to organise a referendum against the planned investment on the shore of Lake Oreg in Tata, so that everyone could understand the will of the people living here. I myself have met them personally, and I am pleased to have a fellow Member who met the civilians on the spot, I am thinking of János Bencsik, and he knows very well that more than 8,000 people participated in the referendum, and they have made it quite clear that they are not asking for the luxury investment planned here. Lake Venice was almost dried up, but the government didn't do enough to save it. Even these few cases show the problems of the programme's commitments. From this point forward, there is little doubt as to how the government intends to achieve the protection of natural values and resources. We are facing an innumerable problem, in which the government is deliberately doing little or taking the side of environmental destroyers. The problem is reinforced by the government's approach to extradition of data of general interest, as it is extremely difficult to obtain data of general interest necessary to protect natural values. Without the possibility of force majeure, the programme's objectives will become extremely uncertain and there is little chance of an effective fight. Overall, I have to say that it is the government's duty to provide the guarantees that really provide the possibility of protecting the legal rules and the environment, but these guarantees are still lacking. Unfortunately, we see that the basic objectives can be supported in vain if these guarantees are still missing in the future, and the government will continue to treat environmental protection as a stepchild. We need an independent Ministry of Environment, but I think you're aware of that, Madam Secretary. Thank you so much for listening.
u2022-11-10-82	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr János Bencze, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2022-11-10-83	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, We've read the material several times. To tell you the truth, we don't have any problem with the substance itself first. It is very well written, written by professionals, really perfect in an ideal country, which per moment is not Hungary. So this substance... [[Nacsa Lőrinc: We love him anyway.]] What? I don't interrupt, I'd ask for that respect. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] If that's what's going on in Fidesz, then so be it. So in an ideal country, where everything is fine. We said it was a nice pink substance born in foamy, orange dreams. You can turn the whole thing upside down, but let's start at the beginning. What has Fidesz done to protect the environment in the last 12 years? It has decommissioned the entire institutional system in order to fully serve the NER oligarchs. We witness this every day. You can deny it in investment, you can deny it anywhere, but real life brought it. It has very good groundwork, but it doesn't happen, there's always an exception. Here, the judge of Gyev, here except Lőrinc Mészáros, except for any oligarch, can do anything in Hungary today practically, there is no limit on them, and then get some kind of exception from the whole thing. The whole regulation has been loosened up. I would like it to be strict, I would like it to be equally burdensome for everyone, because it is in the same interest for all of us to keep this country beautiful and livable, with a healthy environment, and thus endangering our environmental values everywhere. So by reading through the material, I'm going to go through it so that it can be watched, compared to the reality of what happened. The first strategic area is to improve air quality. In a country where people work for the lowest wage in the Central European region, how can we expect them to heat that wage with modern fuels in an environmentally friendly way? Go to the countryside, go to small settlements, and now at night they can smell poverty, which is everything but environmentally friendly. Everything's on fire from the bottle to the tire. What kind of solution can be suggested here? Fair wages, then you can talk about it. Providing healthy drinking water. Stand up for a small Hungarian settlement! Stand up on the Tolna County Sedres, say, at János Major, stand up in the new village of Berettyó and tell them that they provide healthy drinking water. Open a faucet! I'm telling you, the stuff is good, but dreams are pink. It's an indefinite-colored goo that runs most of the time from the taps, give it to people so that it works! I really want it to happen. Waste water treatment, cleaning, sewage sludge treatment, recovery. That's what I see, because during your administration, Croatian sewage sludge spilled on us. Beautiful Hungary became another country's sewage plant. You called it some kind of exploitation, it became a scandal, thank God, it was stopped. Leakage, sewage contests. There was a net pull everywhere. We've been involved in these matters ourselves. It was one thing to bring down the population in order to win EU money, and then, when the scandals started, they stood next to the well - and - bad waste water cases. Thank you for this, but what will happen to the areas where the mayor is responsible for the area itself, and the local water utility company has forgotten to include certain parts in the sewage program. Simontorny has such a affected area in my hometown. They just figured out that people there wouldn't pay for it, they wouldn't get it. To this day, they are without sewerage, the 21st century. In the century, next to such a substance. Protection of green spaces, development of green infrastructure. This is very, very nice, very, very good, here we saw that steps were taken, only when you get to the Hungarian border, you see that everything is cut off. And I'm not talking about the woods because of the firewood, the forest lanes that protect the field, the forest details that provide biodiversity, the bush. They are eliminated so that, to a large extent, the NER owners and the green barons maximize the support they receive. This is linked to biodiversity conservation, nature and landscape protection. A lot of people know about me. I'm a beekeeper. I've lived with nature for nearly thirty years. In the last 30 years, there have been such catastrophic changes in the Hungarian border that there has been a living example of them, taking our agricultural minister out and saying, what do you hear? He said nothing. That's the problem! In 30 years, we managed to wipe out the whole insect world from the border, pollinators and non- pollinators with brainless chemicals, the large-scale economy. This is not the preservation of biodiversity! That's why we should really do it, and I think it's good in the material, so let's just do it, not make statistics. Protection and sustainable use of soils. When a little man does something, grabs a lake bed, puts the lake mud in the wrong place, punishes him to death if an oligarch does the same thing, he gets off with a penny penalty; personal experience. Protection and sustainable use of our water. What waters are we talking about? You have to go to the Hungarian Great Plain, the sandback. I'm not talking about the resort areas, I'm talking about our agricultural waters. I was out there, the once surface drinker is eight meters deep, and the hunters and everyone else have deepened it to get the animals to water, because that's where the groundwater got down. There is a 8.5-metre drop in groundwater in the area. We can protect the waters according to statistics and program, but nothing really happened. I want it to happen, I want you to wake up, I want you to side with him, and I want this to happen. Decarbonisation. I can give you a positive here, and it happened in our environment, in the skin factory in Simontornya, so I really appreciate it. I hope it happens in as many places as possible, and it will spread to the whole country, because socialism has left us with a very serious curse, in those plants where waste was stored in a sloppy way, there is this. So there would be more to be done here, and there are countless areas in Hungary where this has appeared and is now being published. There's a living example. In the neighbouring Tamási, Lóránt Keresztes sat there and met with a thing called plastic scrap recycling that was done by a stroman company. He dumped a gigantic amount of plastic waste at a facility near the city center and disappeared. But imagine what a miracle happened in the same area. In a small settlement in Tolnanémedi, a former brownfield site, where your representative promised investments and miracles, the same plastic waste appeared in closed industrial buildings. Someone's made a huge buck on it. [[14.40]] It should be done against such things, so that this programme would be very credible. Promoting environmentally friendly production. I'll tell you the truth, I can't interpret that in large-scale circumstances. Under large-scale conditions, where Hungary has turned itself into a net agricultural raw material producer, industrial chemicals can only be used here. The effect was that, in essence, at the Hungarian border, the wildlife was destroyed. Improving energy efficiency, saving and increasing renewable energy use. I beg you, are the people who receive one of the worst wages in Europe realistic to you? Let's think about it. Let's give you a live example: Kádár-cube. Ten times ten meters, 100 square meters roughly gross. It is possible to calculate how much of a Kádár cube can be made energy efficient in Hungary, relatively as an outdated building. It beats 20 million forints. A Hungarian youth, elderly living in the countryside, anyone, especially a pensioner, has twice 80,000 pensions, or have 200 pensions, can't pay his interest-free credit. So we can dream like this, just put something next to it. I'm glad you're having these dreams, and I really want it to happen. Waste management. Eliminating illegal landfills. For me, as a man on the border, it was my greatest pleasure, and it really did come true. It's just that the Hungarian man has such a bad quality, he finds an empty space, he dumps it again. So here we should find a way to keep that waste and its successor from returning there. I can show you where it was charged, where it disappeared from, but it's reestablished, because these are strategic locations for illegal waste dumpers. And from the looks of it, there is no way or possibility of punishment, because the whole border cannot be camerad. Some settlements have done it, made their own municipal waste yard, where, in fact, it's not dangerous waste, everything can be laid down. You can reason with the fact that, so to speak, at the trash truck, you can also request a container for shipments of waste, but we ordered one of these. I can tell you funnyly that what you're looking for: gold, silver, gems, sovereign debt and cash, we can put it in the container, because basically it's a minimal thing to put into the container. This would need to be changed, and this would require financial resources to provide the public with paid product fees to ensure that they not only transport the relevant waste container, but also occasionally, once a year, unbound waste is disposed of in a waste yard. There wouldn't be such a problem with illegal dumping at the border. I'd like to put the tires in here, because there's a gigantic amount of them. Since this practice has been introduced in a lot of places since the use of tyres has had to be paid at the tire shops, people have not paid 1-2 thousand forints per tyre, but are thrown out by the road. This needs to be investigated, and it needs to be prevented, because it's a never-destructive substance. Reducing greenhouse gas emissions and preparing for the effects of climate change. Climate change has been discussed in agriculture for 30 years. They started with desertification, what I said at the beginning. On the sandy ridge, it's in a crater, eight meters deep, and now it's a water lake. It has to be done, and I can fully support it. Let's just do it for him. It's not statistics, it's not dysfunctional organizations, it's real action. I've been to water farmers who've solved it in amateurs, let's call it the subterranean waters. They set a good example, they are political independent people, but they are constantly conflicting with the authorities. They're simple farmers who want to make a living. I'm asking you to support these people in this line of work. We've been through the aspects of the agricultural economy. Forest management. I'll tell you the truth, I don't share the tart-cut panic. I've been in contact with countless forests. Forestry is a major profession, with the biggest history in Hungary. One thing I ask of you and anyone is that we leave this to the foresters. Let's leave it to those forest professionals who do it with their heart and soul and live together, breathe with the forest. Then we won't have a problem. They will solve it, and you should know that most of the Hungarian forests are cultural forests. We can go through a lot of places. Environmental aspects of mineral farming. Here again, I will bring up my topic at Paks II, Madocsa. It is clear that they are intended to be near government stromanes, let us call them businessmen, whatever they can do. In Madocsa, mining permits continue to take place today. So they're just waiting for one piece of paper, and they're gonna mine the border next to Madocsa. They're ready to go. They're ready. If they were serious, these sets of paper, research permits wouldn't even come into existence. He simply wouldn't know what to do with the area. Then he'd have a reality. So we can watch the whole thing. I'm asking you to be serious. They don't mean it like the last one, so we get the new one first, and we don't even analyze the old one. I feel like me and Jobbik are totally partners in this. In spite of all the mistakes I have mentioned, I have done this with the intention of improving it, I would like to correct it and propose that we accept it. Thank you so much for listening.
u2022-11-10-84	Thank you very much, Mr János Bencze. I give the floor to Mr Dávid Dócs, the lead speaker of the group of our countries. [[David Dócs enters the pulpit.]]
u2022-11-10-85	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you for the floor. I think that, given the importance of this subject, I would like to say my speech from here. Nature and environmental protection is one of our most important social tasks in order to leave a living country, a living planet for future generations, all the more so, since according to the rightly fitting saying, we inherited the Earth not from our grandfathers, but from our grandchildren. So the people responsible are us, and their future is up to us. In order for them to live a healthy, environmentally conscious, close to nature, they should have laid the foundations today, but rather yesterday. I think that politics cannot be avoided in the natural and environmental environment, because it has an essential role to play both in creating an approach and in delivering it, and in enforcing long-term sustainability decisions. It is necessary to plant the approach from a very small age, since it is only in this case that the growing generations will have responsibility for nature. A good mirror of the man of that age is the way he is related to nature, and a good mirror of the government of that age is also the fact that he is related to the subject, acts in legislation, regulates environmental issues. It is certainly clear that the current government is not at the forefront of this common issue, which is essential for our future, because everything that is needed is either not, or there is just one. A plan, a national environmental programme, is not enough to protect the right nature, and much more would be needed, and although there are very many good parts of the programme now being analysed, unfortunately, in most cases the practical implementation is already delayed or not done in the right way. We have seen the delay and lameness in the pollution of Sajó, which has brought the problem to nothing further. We could see that this could simply be because there was no proper authority for this purpose. Therefore, for example, we need a separate ministry. But not only do we have a Ministry of the Environment, but we have no health or education, and we can see this in all three sectors that are very important for our future. In addition to the existing 14 ministries, these matters, which are absolutely important to our nation, should have deserved a single wallet. In comparison, environmental protection is suffering, health care is dying, and education is not for students, but for teachers, and this is all seen in our nation, Hungarian society. True, there is no need for a Ministry of Environment in a country where indigenous forests can be destroyed without renovation, where nature reserves can also be sold, where the government is successful in concluding strategic partnerships with as many foreign multinationals and company clocks as possible, which in many cases cannot perform their activities in their own country, and their negative impact on nature is more striking than anything else. But what can we expect if, as a country with agricultural funds, we strive for the status of not agricultural but battery power at government level; if we don't help Hungarian businesses with tax forints, but help foreign multinationals with billions? [[14.50]] Well, we can't expect a lot of good from this, because these activities are, in the long term, pushing down their heavy ecological footprints on the land of our beloved country; on the land where the blood of our true fathers was shed, but our grandchildren will only shed tears, because we will live, live, pollute it, not thinking about the day or the future. As a major investment, unlike the locals, Hungary's Government is unfortunately pleased that a highly harmful and harmful Samsung will settle down, say, in God, if another battery plant is established in Győr, if we waste another 400 hectares of the best soil in Debrecen for BMW, or if we exclude thousands of hectares of agricultural production for new solar parks, which are installed in the spirit of renewable energy, which will lose its original function. As a result, the ecological footprint mentioned above will appear to have been left behind by a Big Foot. This can be concluded by the unfortunate fact that most of our drinking water base is more qualitatively bad than good quality, and in this future it will not be much better either that, for example, the battery plant now installed next to Debrecen, which consumes another 221 hectares, consumes not only our production areas but also our water, because its technology requires a thousand cubic meters of water per hour, and after returning it back to nature it is more damaging than it uses. The fundamental mistake, in addition to the above, is that the idea that we are for the earth is not the view that the earth is for us when it comes to setting strategic goals, but rather that the earth is for us. Our country, as the name of our party shows, is committed to our country and its future, so it attaches great importance to its long-term survival and sustainability, so we consider it our priority to preserve our natural values, to preserve our resources and not to exploit a country in which we would all like to live. We would not only like to speak in the voice of criticism, but we would also like to make suggestions thanks to our professional Cabinets. This year has shown that there is no life without water, no crops, no food. So our most important task is to put the country's water management, but rather water management, in the first place, because it is a huge mistake that when every drop of water counts, we will release more water from the Carpathian Basin, which follows the law of water, without knowing the limits of mockery, than it is our pool. It adds to this huge mistake that we cannot handle our existing waters properly, that water boards are preparing for flood protection even when we are living in the drought of the century. According to many professionals, if in our country professional inadequacy hurts, the level of noise pressure would rise above the limit and exceed the healthy value. After the water, it's the question of the earth, which is at least as burning as it is. I do not want to launch tomorrow's agenda today, but EU agreements here or in the EU agreements, it is a disgrace that, in violation of the basic law, it is also against Article P that the privatisation takes place more than 30 years after the change of regime, but it is not economic interests, but our country itself that has been put on hold. For the land belongs to him, and without land there is no state. And the western capitalist layer will be given the opportunity to continue with the ignominious country mutilation of 1920, completely undisturbed, without prejudice to the environment, since it only regards our beloved land as a host. Our rock-solid position is that the Hungarian land is not for sale, it is not for sale, it is hidden behind companies, it is for foreign citizens, who in both cases only exploit it, they inhabit it, they pollute it, and their crops are carried away, in many cases bypassing the current regulation. In our opinion, the Hungarian land belongs to the Hungarian people, and they must also keep it, they must work on it, they must manage it, and they must share in the goods produced. It is not the monocultural, large-scale, exploitative agricultural production that preserves our beloved homeland, but it is the natural-friendly and ecologically sustainable direction based on family farms. This requires the help of the state, so that a thousand-acre estate is not in the hands of one or two people, but helps many Hungarian families. It needs to be done, as mentioned in the programme, but the reality is far from the quality of education, which is environmentally conscious, based on a life-promoting curriculum, and it also requires motivated, career-oriented teachers. Their task is not less than to raise a generation who already have an environmentally conscious view, who do not throw away, but pick up the garbage, who do not distance themselves from the Hungarian land, often leaving it, but living in synergy with it and preserving it for their grandchildren. However, it is not enough to rethink human factors, to take into account the endurance of a given living space, so it is not enough to address urbanisation, increased explosion-like population growth and the associated environmental burden, but it is also important to maintain a natural balance. As a hunter, professional and farmer, I particularly welcome the wild management phase of the national environmental programme, which highlights the current, totally unprofessional and faulty management, in particular the need to significantly agitate the stocking density of wild game numbers, since some species of wild game have also been introduced in areas other than their usual habitat. For example, large wild game stocks should be repressed in flat areas, in particular with regard to feral pigs, or significant stock control of mountain habitats for muflons and cervids, as these species threaten the renewal of forests and, in worse cases, completely destroy the existing innovation, which will reverse the achievement of desirable and targeted environmental factors. In addition, measures to protect small wild game species, which provide for the protection of their natural habitat, are particularly necessary. In order to protect indigenous species, it is also necessary to reduce the spread of invasive non-indigenous species. This is also true of the extremely important fisheries management, where efforts must be made to protect indigenous fish stocks and to rebuild this stock where necessary. In order to ensure the long-term sustainability of our country, the protection of our natural values and the improvement of our environment, the Hungarian Movement strives to make every effort to ensure that these positive processes are implemented and implemented as soon as possible, so, despite our criticisms based on life-likeness, we support the proposal for a decision on the national environmental programme and hope that we will experience the truly environmentally friendly step where the next programme will be noted not by the Minister of Technology and Industry, but by the Minister of the Environment. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-11-10-86	Thank you very much, Congressman Dócs. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Lóránt Keresztes, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2022-11-10-87	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I think that we can feel from today's debate that all the speakers feel that the issue of the environment is important and that all the speakers feel that we are not in an easy situation and that we are facing huge challenges. We are in a time of crisis, and we have to live in a time of crisis, it's amazing what crises we are facing, the effects of climate change, the effects of environmental destruction, right, the issue of water, the water crisis, the energy crisis, it's all related to our mismanagement of natural resources. We can say here for several years now that if, say, we count 2010, when the Green Party of LMP Hungary entered the Hungarian Parliament as the first Green Party, there were very serious debates before the Hungarian Parliament, and even in the previous term, we were concerned that this government was indeed treating the issue of environmental protection as a stepmom, and that this kind of responsible thinking does not appear in economic policy, social policy and at all in action. [[15.00]] And what we can see is that, although, at the level of rhetoric, even in part and even in a smaller part at the level of action, good directions or steps have appeared in recent years or we have experienced them, now that all these crises have attacked us at the same time, or have come to the surface at the same time, so to speak, we see that the government is giving in on these issues for the first time. First sacrifice it, first willing to sacrifice our natural resources, and if a compromise is to be made, it will immediately do so at the expense of, or at the risk of, the future of our children. So I can tell you that I myself have read this environmental programme, that obviously with most of the ideas that are formulated, there is no need to argue, and it doesn't really matter, although I have criticism. There is much missing, but the problem here is that this programme, which the Ministry has put before us, is specifically overwritten by the government, the government's policy, we can say, virtually rips this program apart and makes it impossible to achieve the objectives set here. The position of environmental protection in Hungary is also underlined by the current situation. I do not know whether I have a fellow Member in this Chamber who knows that he is in office now Minister for the Environment in Hungary or not. We heard about your resignation yesterday, didn't we? We haven't really heard a reaction or a substantial confirmation that László Palkovics would be in office, by the way, but in itself I think that the criticisms that we have heard are very valid and relevant, that the Ministry of Technology and Industry is not in a good place for environmental protection, and that it is not appropriate that the issues of environmental protection and nature protection have been divided and separated in the structure of the government. But even if it does or does not really matter in this respect, there is no minister in office, we can see that the government is ready to override what it has said at any time. (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.) I'll give you an example. On 27 October, perhaps, László Palkovics finally announced that I would say this to Mrs Hajnalka Juhász, that by restricting them, the government has dissolved its construction. And on several occasions, Minister Palkovic spoke about the need for Hungary to invest in wind energy. We have been struggling for a very long time to make this happen, and these senseless restrictions will be lifted. The Minister announces this, and then a week later, last Wednesday, when I ask the Prime Minister, then he categorically denies all the statements of the Minister responsible for approving wind energy, and he said a few sentences, political panels that go perfectly against what we have been listening to here for months, on behalf of Secretary Zsófia Koncz, about how important green energy is to the government. Now I hear from the government's communication that green energy is expensive, causing problems, and it's like a complete rear-view. I think this is extremely worrying. It is clear that the stakes are no less than the future of our children, we can capture our natural treasures, we can take care of our country, but in the Carpathian Basin we can share our natural treasures in order to leave these natural treasures viable for future generations. I think that we are facing very, very serious challenges and that the government's policy that we have seen is discrediting these programmes and these documents. The program can be said, as I have already mentioned, that there are a lot of correct, relevant findings in it, and it can be seen that those who made it, who received it as a task, have been busy shooting the various literature and books, and have also sought to insert all existing management figures into it; they have become very beautiful and colorful. I would also like to point out that, as a compliment, even the assessment of the situation goes beyond what we usually experience from the government, so there are aspects of the assessment of the situation that I think are forward-looking, but the problem is that the government is really dragging it through. And then let us look a little thematically at this criticism, which I have formulated, and also at what should be done, in what way, let us say, to face up to certain plans, and what we should do together so that we can meet these shared goals and the objectives set out in the documents. We have read two slogans here that the link between the economy and the environment is growing. This programme, in turn, is intended to strengthen the environmental aspects of investments. Let me give you a symbolic example. My fellow Members have mentioned the breakdown of the institutional system, so that the institutional system has been placed in government offices. This spring, an environmental permit was issued for an investment in Balatonvilágos, Aliga, which meant that, in order to serve the interests of investors, larger construction sites could be destroyed on the high shore of Balaton. So they granted environmental protection permission in Hungary to desecrate our common national treasure, a national symbol, in order to enable investors to create larger land and gain even greater profits. They gave me an environmental license. Thank God that this investment, this method of investment, was out of control by this investor, but it was not up to the Hungarian government, it wasn't up to the government. All you had to do was get the environmental license. But the other thing is that environmental aspects are getting stronger. We've been talking about battery production today. How responsible is it, how green, how sustainable is it, and how national is it that they want to turn Hungary into a power of battery manufacturer? What do we see? They provide an amazing amount of subsidies to foreign companies of the magnitude of 100 billion in order to use our water resources, to use the water resources of our children, and the water resources of our grandchildren so that they are typically not available to local or Hungarian workers, and when Göd's case has already been mentioned as a sign of environmental destruction, so the dangerous material used for battery production has already been shown in various monitoring stations, then there is no immediate intervention by the government, but the Ministry of Interior, with decision-making powers over water management, refuses to release the data and has to sue for it. They are not in favour of the local community, not the Hungarian people, but of the foreign interests, the investor who wants to take foreign profits from here by environmental destruction. We know exactly what amazing energy needs these battery companies are. In his speech on 27 October, Minister Palkovics considered the energy demand for this gigantic factory capacity in Debrecen in China to be comparable to that of a functioning Paks block. And he also said that the water demand of this factory is comparable to the water demand of Debrecen. They're giving us our water supply, and they're giving us state support for the employment of foreign workers to get the profits out of the country, and they're stealing our water resources. Now, in these circumstances, we're talking about an environmental program. I think that these few examples are a good indicator of the backside of this situation and how credible the government can be from an environmental point of view. I don't think that's gonna happen. We can read from the programme that the safety and quality of water utility services will continue to improve. Ladies and gentlemen, Even the Prime Minister did not doubt that there was a great deal of trouble in the water utilities sector. And I didn't allow them to hear from me about the politics of the pre-2010 Balliberal governments, what they did with water utilities or water bases, but it clearly shows that the trend is wrong. Even then, the situation was bad, but since then the number of pipe fractures, failures have doubled, and statistics show that 80 percent of water systems are risky or high risk water systems. Do we treat our water resources effectively? 25 percent of the drinking water produced runs out without use, the utilities are in such bad condition. The situation is not improving, but the situation is deteriorating, my honourable Members, so it is not factually true that the water utility service will continue to improve, because the most important public service in Hungary, the supply of drinking water, and the protection of our water resources and our water base are collapsing. And this is not my claim, but, for example, the document commissioned by the County City Association in 2017 states that this sector is in crisis and that the missing funds were estimated at HUF 3000 billion. I think we can at least double how much is missing and not move the handlebars. It has not taken any meaningful steps, it does not provide the additional hundreds of billions per year, which is necessary to ensure the supply of drinking water and to achieve the protection of our water resources, our water bases. And what we know is that if the groundwater is damaged, the water bases are damaged, and we can see from the material that in a large part, two thirds of these water bases are vulnerable, then irreversible environmental destruction occurs. You can't fix this after. And from Vodafone, everything is more important, we are talking about hundreds of billions here than to provide substantial resources to sustain the water utility system. And, by the way, I didn't put it myself again, but, for example, the Fidesz mayor of Debrecen, that it is not possible to hand over water resources to municipalities, because it is such an important strategic sector. [[15.10]] And he wrote that the majority of Debrecen Fidesz was not handed over in a general meeting decision, and rightly so, the Fidesz majority municipality of Debrecen described that they saw no guarantee that the government could do anything at all with regard to the question of water utilities in terms of funding. So there is absolutely no way to say that there has been any progress here on our water base, on the protection of our water resources, in fact, there is a near collapse situation here. It must be said that in Hungary the supply of drinking water has been compromised in the medium term and our water resources and the protection of our water bases have been compromised. And yes, it has come up with the approach of water management in Hungary today. Specifically, yes, it has also been said from our fellow Member that there is significantly more water flowing in the country than it is coming in, namely, the loss of three Balatons' water volumes because the poor management of water is still taking place as soon as possible. So now Hungary is being drained, Hungary is drying up, and there is indeed a consequence of this; another fellow Member spoke about the drought situation, how drastic the groundwater is going down. So, if there is no fundamental, meaningful change of perspective here, and if water is not retained instead of draining the waters, water is retained in the landscape, if we do not turn in the direction of keeping the waters in the former floodplains, in the areas of the former waterwalk, then there will be invisible, catastrophic consequences: in decades' perspective, desertification will be experienced throughout the Great Plain, the process that we are now seeing on the sandback. And indeed, we can find in this document the sentences that suggest a complete misinterpretation of the situation: an increasing drought and water scarcity period... so yes, it describes at the same time that there is a need to combat floods and inland water, even though there is a need for a change of perspective here, and in the case of large waters, the excess waters should be properly placed in the right place, and then a meaningful step could be taken. And it is also unacceptable, honourable Members, that if we stick to the water resources, that if we see one of these, that the pollutants will appear in the vicinity of the gigantic Göd Battery Factory, and that it cannot be enforced by lawsuits, that the locals will not be able to fight for their own interests, then we will submit a resolution that reflects on the government's desire to make a great power, whatever it takes, and that our water resources will be sacrificed. We submit a proposal that, if monitoring tests are carried out for such a factory, they should be published; and that, if a factory does not publish them, a factory should be closed. They do not accept this, so they do not make decisions that, in such cases, can at least reduce environmental destruction and risks. I think this is a huge problem, and it doesn't appear. I would add that the whole environmental program does not include the word "accumulator" and the battery production is not included, although we can say that it overrides everything that is water management here. So, on the one hand, we dry out Hungary, we run out of water, we really lose our water resources, the water utility system is ruined, we can't protect our water bases from pollution, and when we have specific drinking water problems, we give our water resources for foreign interests and we pay for it. Ladies and gentlemen, This is not an environmental policy, and this is not a national policy. I think that we must face these issues, and we will do so for our part. And that we really need to act: in order to allow some kind of dialogue on water management, I initiated an extraordinary committee meeting, and from here I thank Minister István Nagy for coming to this committee meeting, and we were able to create that these farmers, the experts representing the watershed initiative, and, by the way, university professors, and the rest, we could sit down, and I think that at least some change of direction may have already started at this meeting. I think it is the responsibility of all of us, whether we are pro-government or opposition, to recognise these crises and to act together to ensure the future of our children. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2022-11-10-88	Thank you, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász, KDNP Group.
u2022-11-10-89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We are committed to environmental protection, of course, there is always room for improvement, but we can be proud. Anyone who deals with environmental protection knows that Cambridge University publishes its annual report on sustainability every year. We are the 21st most sustainable country in the world! It's a huge achievement. In three years, our country has advanced four. The United States of America is 41th on this list, by the way. The other thing is that since 1990 greenhouse gas emissions have decreased by 34 percent. Third: In 2021, 60.8 percent of Hungary's electricity generation is carbon neutral; it is carbon neutral in nuclear energy, which has been attacked so much and thanks to solar power plants. And since we took over the government from the left, we have increased our protected natural areas by 4,000 hectares since 2010. Let's be proud of that and work for the environment. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-11-10-90	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Oláh, DK Group.
u2022-11-10-91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My fellow Member, Hajnalka Juhász, said so proudly that there is a wind power plant in Hungary. [[Dr. Hajnalka Juhász: I am proud...]] Of course it does. Of course it does. Because we did it. Not because you did anything, or the Fidesz government would have done anything, but because they had been given permission before; under your government, only one license was not issued. [[Dr. Dawn Juhász intervenes.]] It's just important to note that you didn't issue a single permit. And you know what the Faramuci situation is? That he can't be 12 kilometers from a populated area. There are several settlements in Hungary near the Austrian border, where there is a wind power plant a few kilometres away, but we cannot build the same on the Hungarian side. So I'd just like to confirm: you're right, there are wind power plants, because our government has made this possible, and your government has made it impossible because it's prescribed 12 kilometers and there's not a single permit issued. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2022-11-10-92	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Nyitrai, Fidesz Group, in two minutes. You have the floor.
u2022-11-10-93	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the word and opportunity. My two-minute comment was induced by the LMP representative's speech. If we are talking about water and green issues, environmental protection, nature protection, if you like: creation protection, then it is important to emphasise at this point, too, that the Government of Hungary bases public life work on dialogue. In this area, too, we asked the opinion of the people, and we launched an online green consultation not too long ago, called: -Hungary is on the green road! This was a year ago, and more than 70,000 of our fellow citizens gave their views on this. I stress here in the Hungarian Parliament that the consultations launched by the government will never be without consequences, they will always be followed by a government decision or a parliamentary decision. I think it was, it is, and it will be so with regard to green issues. On this agenda, too, we can say that the Government of Hungary is, unlike the opposition, not only talking about environmental protection and green affairs, but also taking concrete measures and decisions on this issue. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-11-10-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As no one has applied for a further two-minute speech, I am now giving the floor to the Members applying for a normal timeframe. A speech will be made by Ms Rebecca Szabó, Member of the Dialogue Group. Here you go.
u2022-11-10-95	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I'm glad we're talking about these things here in the House. I am glad that at least sometimes there is such a legal obligation for the government to prepare this environmental programme, because then at least the government staff will have to talk about it. Although, unfortunately, I have the impression that it may be a good thing that there are still officials in the ministries who are able to write such materials, and I am glad to see that, because there are very good things in this material. However, as has already been said, there are quite serious problems with implementation, and frankly, I do not envy the person who has to do such a program, obviously even a number of employees who put it together, because they know precisely that none of this is going to happen, and it can be bad enough to work this way to make these programs and strategies for the desk drawer. One of the very fundamental problems is that this is actually presented by the Ministry of Industry and Technology, and I must say that it remains a very big problem that there is no Ministry of the Environment in Hungary. The nature conservation section is in the material, however, a lot of nature conservation-related parts are in the Agricultural Ministry, but only in the form of a State Secretary. I would like to point out that even if I say that it is the Ministry for the Environment, Climate Protection or the protection of wildlife, outside Hungary, there is no one in Somalia, Tanzania and Saudi Arabia, but it is everywhere in the countries of the European Union. [[15.20]] And I'd like to point out that this alone is a sign from the Fidesz that it's no use... I understand you're saying how important environmental protection is to you, but then you should be represented at the Ministry level, which is not happening. And by the way, its fragmentation, and then when I talk about what's going on with the water, there's a significant part of the water issue at the Ministry of Interior, and it's already making it very difficult to have efficient water management and really sustainable water management in Hungary. In fact, the objectives sound good, but I see that over the last 12 years and unfortunately I have reason to believe that this will be the real thing in the future, and I would like to give some examples of this material. On the one hand, it is said that, in recent years, the environmental state institution has changed in line with the government's objectives and the direction of bureaucracy reduction. I have already indicated that, in my view, it contradicts the fact that there is no Ministry of the Environment, that this area of strategic importance is being fragmented, that it makes coordination difficult and that it does not reduce bureaucracy at all. There is no independent environmental authority system, they have been integrated into government offices, there the environmental authority officials often give their consent to comedy advice, whether it is the installation of a valuable natural area, such as Lake Fertő or Salgótarján, or even in Tihany, or the construction of a polluting battery plant, such as at Gödön and Debrecen, we have heard of this, too. So, basically, they're giving the environmental authority permission for everything the government wants. Today, in Hungary, this environmental authority, and this is not good, is not good at all. Then it is also written in the programme that I really highlight only a few things, because, by the way, hours can be talked about in itself, and you write that in recent years, the forest's environmental and nature conservation, public welfare and aesthetic functions have gradually gained ground, while recognising the economic role of the forest. Well, unfortunately, that's not true. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Yes!]] That's not the case. There are many cuts in Hungary, unfortunately... [[Gábor Varga: No!]] Well, maybe you should go on a field trip and take a look. [[Gábor Varga: We live there!]] Unfortunately, more than 90 percent of our forests, in protected and Natura 2000 areas, this is the traditional cutting-mode forest management process. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: In Zuglo?]] Unfortunately, as a result, our natural forests are of the same age, few species of trees, few of them are old trees, often lacking the level of shrubs, and the dead trees that play the role of the forest's immune system are also missing from many forests, so these forests have no good naturality, and it is not true at all that the forest cultivation method has gradually gained ground. There is such a thing, it exists in this country, and it is a very good thing, and I can even imagine that this may be a growing trend, but it is growing incredibly slowly, and the fact is that the government has been known, this summer, in connection with the firewood decree, in which it has allowed both cropping and harvesting during the vegetation period or during the nesting of birds, it has allowed them very, very much to be rescinded. This was then eased a little, and, after all, they indicated that they would not allow it in public forests, only in private forests, but that is also a big problem, because there are a lot of private forests in Hungary, and private forests can be protected or Natura 2000s. So, in practice, the government itself has loosened up this regulation which is not too strict and not working well, despite the civil protest, this is still in place so far, so that is in itself contrary to this environmental programme, which is in this. Then, according to the environmental programme, greater attention should be paid to the dissemination of water-holding methods and the use of associated ecological water governance in the areas of adaptation to climate change. Well, we would very much welcome this on the part of the Dialogue, if it were so, really, so we talk a lot about how important it would be now, when there was an incredibly harsh drought all summer, very little precipitation, the Great Plain has practically not just begun to become deserted, and in the last 12 years, no effective measures have been taken to at least try to compensate for this in a way, if unfortunately it is not possible to stop it completely. So I'm afraid that this statement, which is written here, will remain only on the sheet of paper, and there is no real intention behind it. They should, in effect, be able to store in the landscape extra waters that may arise in the countryside at the end of winter or spring, but we do not see decisive action on them. We do not see that, by the way, the Agricultural Ministry would sit down with the Ministry of the Interior and discuss that what the Minister of Agriculture might say is then also owned by the water industry, and, for example, such investments are taking place, such as the reconstruction of the main channel next to the Mezőhegyesi Ménes estate, in which the workers of Lőrinc Mészáros build a lineed irrigation system for HUF 22 billion with complete disregard for ecological aspects. Again, I see that when it comes to Lőrinc Mészáros and his interests in particular, or other groups of companies near Fidesz, there are nice things written down in these programs, and no one really listens to it, because then these financial interests come in immediately, of course. And then, speaking of water, I'm gonna have to mention the battery companies. It is quite creepy that I would like to make Hungary such a power of battery. It has already been said, but I also have to mention that Minister Palkovics himself said that, besides Debrecen, he may not even be a minister now, so I do not know what will happen to this project, but I am afraid that the government will continue to use 1,000 cubic meters of water per hour, which, in the case of Debrecen, will be able to recover, and the government intends about 250 billion forints. So let us destroy our environment, but we will even use our own public money to do so. I think it's a disaster, and it's completely contrary to what they're describing here in the environmental program. It is also included in the programme that the technical conditions required to regulate the water level of Lake Venice are provided, but at the same time I do not know when there will be an actual government will to do so. Last year, I asked a number of written questions to the authorities, and it seems to me that there are plans for Lake Venice, too; of course, water levels are rising, then they are happy, sometimes fish are dying, then they are not, but true uniform action is not really seen. Then it is also included in the programme that Lake Balaton is a very vulnerable ecological system that requires a great deal of attention to the maintenance of water quality, the protection of natural values, and it is also described in the programme that increasing the tourist use of Lake Balaton, new waterfront residential parks, its integration, construction, development of ports, increasing sailing traffic in the natural environment, the increasing load of the lake's ecological system. I hope you don't fire the coworker who wrote this down, because, frankly, it's so against the Fidesz government's policy, I don't understand how an official would describe that. But I also congratulate him from here, thank you very much, I agree with this sentence, but I do not understand why the whole Balaton is being built in. So how is it that, right, Balatonaliga is allowed to take down a hotel investment on the high shore? How is it that you're allowed to install the entire beach promenade there specifically with luxurious estates? How is it that the company owned by the foundation of the Hungarian National Bank in Balatonakarattya has a huge construction, cutting down a lot of trees, building concrete condoms? How come Tihany's buying up Butcher Lawrence? How is it that other Fidesz wealthy people in Tihany build luxury villas for all kinds of farm buildings and destroy half the island? How is it that in Keszthely groups of companies close to Tiborcz develop luxury residential parks, or the city center that was otherwise designed, and for which architects of doctoral students made a super plan that fit into the local settlement and did not harm the local ecosystem, it is drawn over by a feather stroke, and they are building another natural-destructive investment? So how is it that they write such beautiful words in the program anyway? And then, you know, there's a story about the public utility line drinking water network. There is still some honesty in the material because it is acknowledged that the lack of reconstruction can cause contamination of supplied drinking water or increase consumer risk or lead to failures, but it is not really mentioned that the lack of water utility reconstruction is virtually approaching the critical level. Today, the average network loss in Hungary is 22 percent, so that's how much water flows if you look at the country's average. By the way, there is a civil society organization called the Water Coalition, and very great data and studies are available, and I would also recommend that the Secretary of State may want to take a look at this. They make a very nice map, comparative studies, and it is practically clear, but what many people who live in Hungary really feel is that there are water shortages in the summer, that the sewer system is not working properly. We're losing a lot of drinking water like this, and it's a big problem, and again, the program doesn't cover it. [[15.30]] Then it is written that Hungary's average air pollution load level is in the middle field in an international comparison. But there is no mention of 13,000 people dying prematurely in Hungary due to air pollution, and air pollution not only reduces life expectancy, but also increases the risk of cardiovascular and respiratory diseases, and that it is very important to improve air quality, and that solid fuel techniques do not cause more people's deaths and diseases. Then, coming to an end, I would like to mention energy efficiency, as it is also mentioned that local renewable energy sources should be used. Here I return to this wind energy dispute. Unfortunately, Hajnalka Juhász is no longer in there, who said that there are wind power plants in Hungary. However, since 2016 no wind power plant can be created due to the tightening of the Fidesz government. It is now six years, and in six years this industry could have developed a great deal, not two megawatts anymore, but a wind turbine with 3-4 megawatts, and this could balance the electricity generation of solar power plants both at night and in winter. Many experts say that this type of complex energy mix would be beneficial. Now, you do not solve this by helping to create wind energy in addition to solar energy, but also by destroying solar energy. We didn't mean it like that, but the other way around, I'd like to signal it. So it is not a good solution to have neither solar energy nor wind energy, but to have both. So if you write this down in a program to have energy efficiency and renewable energy sources, then it is not compatible that you have been talking about whether or not wind energy should be in Hungary for six years. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Because there is!]] The Dialogue as a Green Party wants it to be. Be new, not just the old ones, which, by the way, represent an older technology. They also write about the protection of biodiversity. I don't know why they want to sell our protected areas, I don't know why they don't support national parks enough. There's not enough capacity in the national parks, and I've already told the authorities that they're going to check the damage you've privatized in protected areas and the new owners are going to do. In fact, I have to say that the objectives in this material are beautiful, but there are no quantifiable, accountable commitments, no indicators, no monitoring aspects, and no accounting for the results of previous similar environmental programmes. So they write it this way, put it in the drawer, sounds good, but the thing is, it's a net green paint job. This is the green painting of the Fidesz government, which only doesn't work enough, by the way, because so many people won't even know about it. We're talking about it here, but unfortunately, it's going to be a document made for an account, which I can't support in this form for these reasons. Thank you.
u2022-11-10-96	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the KDNP Group, in a normal time frame. Here you go.
u2022-11-10-97	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, A few questions have been raised recently, and I would like to answer that. Rebecca Szabó began her speech in such a way that it is good to talk about such matters here in Parliament. It would be much easier to have this conversation if the Congresswoman had brought some facts and a basis of reality into her speech, because then it would be even easier to discuss and debate such matters. In order to protect my fellow Member, Mr Hajnalka Juhász, he responded that Lajos Oláh said that wind power plants were banned in Hungary, while if someone is driving on the M1 motorway for example, he clearly sees that this is not the case. That's what Congresswoman has responded to. Lóránt László Keresztes, I would like to remind you that you have a European party family, the party family of the greens, we call it poison greens sometimes, there is one of their largest members, the German greens are currently in government. This is the German governing party, and the other is the socialists, the DK party family, the German social democrats, this is the party family, which is currently issuing the government decree that coal trains take precedence over passenger trains in the summer. Trains that transport people to work may therefore be delayed, trains that transport older people to the hospital, such as suburban or suburban, if a coal train is passing by because of the re-launched coal power plants, the current energy crisis, the green government has taken the measure to give priority to these vehicles and to give priority even before passenger transport, my honourable fellow Member. Well, you were a member of the Committee of the Regions, you have contacts in the Green Party, and I think a protest would at least have been worth it, because you're sharing with, for example, this German sister party. You also said that Minister Palkovic and Prime Minister Viktor Orbán had a conflict with each other on wind energy. It's worth reading again. It is not so, as my fellow Member says. The content is completely identical, in other words, but, of course, if my honourable fellow Member carefully reads the statements or speeches, it is clear that the same position is represented by the government. You are now bringing Balatonaliga's case here for a very long time, now across parliamentary cycles, but on several occasions you have been answered by members of the government, and you have been made aware of this question. You are now pretending that this has not yet been discussed, and you have not received an answer, whether here in Parliament or in the form of a written question, to the question of Balatonaliga. You also brought up the budget, substantial resources. We are constantly increasing environmental expenditure in the budgets that you are not voting for, and you are absolutely right: all budget lines could be increased. We are also increasing the budget for education in recent years, the budget for health, the budget for environmental protection, the budget for investments in support of renewable energy sources. There are very few things I can say in the Hungarian budget that I cannot imagine spending more. A series of support for opposition parties may come to mind, because this will be solved from America, but otherwise, any other budget line is a line that is meaningful, and of course it can be more. We can play this game, who can say a bigger number, but fact is, we have increased these budgets, and we are committed, as the strategy here shows, to further increase these budgetary resources. Several people have raised the issue of the independent Ministry of the Environment, including my fellow Member Rebekah Szabó and Lajos Oláh, and my better friend Lajos Oláh. For you, it is a kind of a canopy, and they want to solve all areas by creating a separate ministry for it. That's what you said in the educational debate here last week, that's what you said in the health debate a few weeks ago. You say that in all kinds of disputes, as if this were some sort of solution to increase bureaucracy, so the matter will be resolved. You can say statistics here about how many countries have a Ministry of Environment, and I'll give you two examples. In Hungary there was the Ministry of Labour, there was 12 percent unemployment. In Hungary there were Ministry of Education and 15 thousand teachers were dismissed. Both were in the Gyurcsány government. So you're gonna solve something by having an independent ministry? I don't think so, because there was a Ministry of Labour, and there was 12 percent unemployment, and there was a Ministry of Education, and 15 thousand teachers were dismissed, and 381 schools were closed. So I don't think it's a solution to a problem if we create an independent ministry. Instead, we need to create a programme that you also commend and then implement. You are coming here to discuss a programme for the next period by asking why it has not yet been implemented. We agreed on goals, we agreed on directions described here in the environmental programme before us, and you are asking why 2026 is no longer available. You want elections again, but it doesn't matter. This programme is about the future, to work together in these steps, to have government proposals, to vote in favour of them, because the laws brought here after the previous programme have not been voted in favour, honourable Members. So I can rightly ask what is the guarantee that, now, if you agree with the objectives set out, then, in the next period, in the spring session of Parliament, next autumn, you will vote in favour of the legislative proposals brought here to implement this strategy, which, by the way, you and many of you have praised me here with the hat, which is very, very nice, which is written down, but we will not vote for it. So they don't go to the point of voting for it, even though they have nice things written down. Before you go, Mrs Szabó, I would like to talk about the issue of cutting trees, because there has also been a distortion in this area, so there is no way to do cuttings in Natura 2000 territory, and it cannot be done in a nature conservation area. Read the Hungarian Gazette instead of 444; it also contains interesting readings. István Nagy, Minister of Agriculture's decree forbids that in these areas... [[Rebecca Szabó: He did not forbid it!]] But he forbade them from cutting them in these areas. [[Rebecca Szabó: He did not forbid it! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You are also aware of the energy crisis in which we are involved, and that is precisely why there is a social firewood programme, which is why there is an official firewood price, and therefore there is a greater production of forests, yes, but there is no slashing. [[Rebecca Szabó: Yes, there is!]] and, in particular, there is no cutting in Natura 2000 or nature conservation areas, honourable Member. [[15.40]] We are sending the congresswoman on her way because she has more important things to do than the debate on the environmental programme. [[Rebecca Szabó is leaving the meeting.]] In summary, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that almost all of you, Lajos Oláh, are always exceptions, or DK is always an exception, but you have all started your speeches with a number of eligible, valuable, important elements in this strategy, in this programme. We agree with that. You have also said that it is important that these steps, be the issue of water management, be the question of air pollution, be it the question of a sustainable economy, and that they should be implemented jointly in Hungary. My fellow Member Juhász said that, by the way, we have made progress in a number of areas over the past period. We don't say that about ourselves, they say that about us in Cambridge, they say that about us in Brussels, and they say that about us in Washington on different international environmental rankings. I am not satisfied with our current position, but I acknowledge that progress has been made in many places. So if we agree that this programme is good, if we agree that it is necessary to implement it, and in this case we will bring you here laws and budgets, in which there is the cost of implementing this programme, then there is only one thing left for you to support, vote in favour, and vote in favour of the next laws that follow, and that we can work on this important issue together immediately from this point of view. That's all I ask of you. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-10-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, LMP Group.
u2022-11-10-99	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr Nacsa, I think that the debate is good, it is moving us forward, and we are talking about a matter that we are discussing, which basically determines the future of our children, so I think it is important. I am very pleased that you have spoken, Mr Hajnalka Juhász, Member of the Council, Mr Nitrai, have spoken, and I think that this may start a positive debate now, that we at least try to define common denominators in order to explore a common interpretation of reality. Honourable Congressman, I quoted that on 27 October, Minister Palkovics, responsible for environmental protection, responsible for energy policy, announced that it was possible to follow this in the live broadcast of News TV, that the Hungarian government would change the rules that currently make it impossible to build wind turbines. I asked him about it last week, Wednesday here, perhaps he was present, with Prime Minister, who said that it was not true, that such a decision had not been made. Help me resolve this contradiction. This means that there has not been a decision that has perhaps been made since then to have knowledge of the Member who has already made such a decision, so it has not actually been criticised, Prime Minister, just said that the declarations may not have been completely overlapped in the timetable. Will it be possible to build wind power plants in Hungary in the future or not? The Minister in charge said that he might have announced that Prime Minister denied it a few days later. It's a league case. I may say this question a lot more than once, but the problem has not yet been resolved. That's the only part of it, the only detail that's been solved, is that they've granted an environmental license for a destruction that would have destroyed this millions of years of geological formation. One government representative, a member of the government, no one answered why this could happen and agreed that this had happened. Honourable Congressman, Then let's talk to each other. Let's argue. Do you think it's acceptable to grant an environmental license to bulldoze a national symbol? To get bigger investors into bigger areas? This is your chance, you can answer it, and I think we can clear this up. But I would also like to ask the honourable Member: battery production. I have criticism of this program, and I agree with a lot of things. It is not included in the future programme which makes it impossible to implement that programme. It is all right for you, who belongs to the so-called national side, that with a hundred billion-dollar state aid, we attract foreign gigantic companies who use energy and use our water resources, and when we experience signs of environmental destruction and pollution, the Hungarian government makes it impossible for the Hungarian people, the local communities, to explore and fight against it. Is that okay? I am only asking because this is related to this programme, because there we are talking about the protection of water resources in the programme, there is not a word about Hungary's power to produce batteries. We have already discussed in detail the challenges that we are facing in the field of water, and so we will be in conflict with reality if we accept this programme in this way. I am asking your opinion, Congressman Nacsa, whether this idea of a large power battery manufacturer, our water supply, is being sold in the interests of the nation. Structure, ministerial structure, holistic approach, responsibility. We talked about water steering, we talked about water management failure, drought damage. I thanked him, and, by the way, there was a very constructive debate at the meeting of the Committee on Sustainable Development, and there he was faced with a lecture by a university professor, and he admitted there that the scenarios were much worse than he thought, in terms of how we were losing our waters. By the way, it looks like something's going on. Let us be clear, this type of water management did not start in 2010 to drain our waters, and not after 1990, we know that this was the result of the former river regulations and river regulations, that we practically dried up the once water-borne areas. Despite the fact that Professor Ángyán put his concept on the table ten years ago, the rural strategy that encouraged opposition, so there was already this document, no action has been taken. I will be very happy if we can act together now. Every step that supports responsible water management, keeping our waters or moving in this direction, I will vote for it. In the same way as I have now voted in favour of the Secretary of State for my interpellation question. We cannot watch on this issue, and believe me that I do not look at party politics, I look at the interests of the nation, the future of our children and grandchildren, so that we can ensure this. But we were talking about the Ministry of Agriculture in this context, the Ministry of Technology and Industry belongs not only to the environment, but also to the water utilities system. Water management belongs to the Ministry of Interior, and Sajó has been mentioned here, but we could also talk about the extremely serious risks affecting the tributaries of the Tisza in Transylvania, and it is obvious that we are talking about Sajó, the tributaries of the Tisza, as well as the natural treasures of the motherland. And that's where we are, I've been three times in the Rozsnyo district, where this terrible pollution happened, I don't know how any member of the government was near the Alssajó settlement at the former mining plant Siderit, until today the pollution still flows. I think that we need to be able to take steps to stop these pollutions, and I miss that. Congressman Nitrai said that the government does not speak, but acts. Help me, any government representative, help me with what the government has done in terms of the collapse of the water utilities system. I quoted to you that in 2017 the County City Association, which we discovered last time that apart from two opposition mayors, it was composed of all pro-government mayors who said that the sector is in crisis, so the water utility system is collapsing. Since then, the situation has been getting worse. What have you done about it? By the way, we can read, say, the announcements of TÖOSZ, the president of the National Association of Local Governments, the Fidesz mayor of Tab, and he also says his criticisms in a row, very loudly. You have done nothing, there has been no change of perspective, there has been no provision of resources, and these pipelines are failing at an ever-increasing pace, these water systems are failing, and there is an increasing threat to our water resources, and we are facing ever-increasing challenges in water management and water supply. By the way, another Fidesz MEP once again said in a public forum that he was very hopeful and thus expressed his hope that the current nationalisation process, which was constrained by the significant resistance of the local government, would not follow this nationalization by handing over the water supply to a third party. If the Secretary of State or any of my fellow members of the Government confirm that they do not, they hold the important principle that water utility infrastructure must remain in national hands, essentially municipal and state-owned, it is very important that this cannot be outsourced. But I think it's a warning to everyone when a fidesz mayor says he hopes he will. Let me talk about some things in such an approach. We were talking about the elimination of illegal landfills, and we've got a case of tampering, a situation of tampering. What happened here? Plastic waste from Italy was started to be delivered to a truck number on a site located in the city of Tamás. This huge pile of garbage stood in gigantic mountains. What's more, I filed a complaint in the case, and then the government office found that the storage conditions provided for in the advance permit were not met, so they didn't stop the garbage transport for three months, so they brought the foreign garbage here. [[15.50]] Of course, here, too, the well-established recipe was that the business of bringing garbage from abroad and disappearing or wanting to disappear. I filed a case twice. I've got signs that the unsub won't get away with this case. But on the other hand, how could the government office allow this, because it is a bilateral responsibility that the government office authorizes a gigantic amount of foreign plastic waste to be depopulated inside a city? And that's where disaster control found that this is an amazing fire hazard. Can you imagine this huge, six to seven meters tall, giant plastic trash mountain catching fire, what the consequences would that have been? Thank God it's been moved. I'm very interested, by the way, I don't know if Madam Secretary can help you with what you've done with her, she's right that she's been transported to Cico. What happened to that son of a bitch, and what does the government do with it? But that's not the point here, is it? It's also very important, but how to change the laws that would allow us to stop the supply of foreign garbage, and to give strict, hard punishment to those who do this, who think that garbage can be delivered here. The programme is also about public transport. However, the programme describes the extent to which the number of passengers has decreased in both local transport and local transport, and yet it is important for public transport. But opposite steps are being taken. Just under Covid, public support for local transport in rural cities was withdrawn. It's not sustainable. Similarly, we are missing, and the transport reform that we have been pushing for for for a very, very long time is delayed. There's one more thing we need to talk about, the operation of the municipalities, the urban green policy. I think that it is clear to everyone that the main areas of climate change and the fight against the effects of environmental destruction are cities and municipalities. What we keep seeing is that, as they face growing challenges, there was a corona virus epidemic, the economic crisis associated with it, we can see the current crisis, local government tasks are increasing and their resources are falling. Thus, because of government constraints, there will be less and less economic scope for municipalities, while the challenges are becoming increasingly serious. Such is the issue of precipitation water drainage, such as public utility issues, public services of any kind, local public transport, which basically determines the quality of urban air, noise load, congestion, accident hazards, etc. It is therefore impossible to meet the objectives set out in this programme if the municipalities are not given as much resources as possible, but as little as possible. Allow me to refer you to one more case. We were talking about energy policy. I very much hope, by the way, that my speech will be followed by Mr Nacsa's speech and announces that Minister Palkovic was actually right and that wind energy will be given the green light by the government. But will there be such a shift in building energy modernisation? Minister Mihály Varga said that the results are insufficient, unfortunately Hungary is among the hosts in the EU in the insulation of the housing stock. We know that this is also a huge opportunity that, if the government provided substantial resources for this, the insulation of up to 100,000 apartments could be achieved every year, a comprehensive modernisation could be achieved and tens of thousands of jobs could be created. In fact, energy use could be reduced here, and Hungary's energy self-determination could be strengthened. Will this be reflected in the government's operation, in the government's visions? In conclusion, I would really like to say that I do not want to talk too long about this issue, that I really think that there may be a relevant idea that there should be a Ministry of the Environment in Hungary. But I agree that this is not the decisive one, and it will not be decided that the policy of a government is right, whether there is a ministry or not, because environmental protection cannot be an end-of-the-line solution. So the goal cannot be that something happens, the economy somehow works, and there is a ministry that is responsible for trying to address the environmental devastating effects of economic activity. Then there will be a substantial change, sustainability will prevail, if sustainability, environmental protection and protection of natural resources, the functioning of a given government, all ministries, and that approach prevails, and indeed we do not just talk about it, we are really turning to the circular economy, we are really trying to minimize waste production, and we are really trying to use different resources, raw materials in a way that does not need to increase the volume of otherwise powerful emissions, mining and other volumes. So I think that sustainability should take place in a complete governance structure, in full government operation. It might be good to have a separate Ministry of Environment, but that's the point. If this doesn't work, then let's just say that even though there's a ministry called environmentalism, it's not gonna help. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2022-11-10-100	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr János Bencsik, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-11-10-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Let us admit that the expectations of our young fellow Member, Lőrinc Nacsa, are not entirely realistic and well-founded in the fact that opposition representatives should support every government proposal here in the country's house. I am also pleased that during the debate, the majority of keynote speakers are present in the Chamber, and we honor each other with mutual attention, and we honor the secretary of state and the ministerial staff preparing the national environmental programme, the experts behind them, and this is the most important thing that has been developed on the basis of mutual attention, to say, interest and respect and dialogue. At the same time, I would like to respond to some of the questions raised. My fellow Member Oláh indicated that the Hungarian environment institution system at government level is insufficient. Let's record that the hiatus is incomplete, because there is a Secretary of State for Nature. You can say that there is a separate environment, there is a separate nature; we are talking about two separate issues. I do not want to rise to such philosophical heights in the debate, but nature conservation is essentially linked to natural resources, and natural resources are fully in the Agricultural Ministry, both agricultural land, national parks and forest farms, so state forestry. They are basically the backbone of natural resources. I am very pleased that there is finally an independent secretary of state in this area. There was a little pushing during the steering process that I needed, I didn't need, I couldn't, I couldn't; a good decision was made: there is. The fact that the environment has its place in the Ministry of Technology and Industry, in itself, I think that it can be good, it can be insufficient, it depends on the quality and efficiency of the work that goes on there, because the environment itself, the environment in which we live our lives, there is the natural resources system itself, and within it there is the narrower, wider environment in which we live our lives as a human population, in which direction it goes, it is essentially linked to the economy, especially industry and food, which are trying to meet our real needs. The point is that these, if possible, will guarantee that our needs will be met by saving materials and using energy. If that is the case, then it should not be a particular problem that the environment itself, the environment, is right there in the ministry where large emitters, potential polluters, must otherwise be regulated, which not only necessarily seek to meet realistic needs, but also to make the greatest profit possible. The Commissioner for Civil Rights has a deputy who is responsible for future generations. So within the Commissioner's institution, the interests of future generations remain guaranteed. Moreover, the Deputy Ombudsman regularly assists the Committee on Sustainable Development, not only with the work of the opposition, but also with the work of those who are pro-government and even those who hold positions at government level, with comments that are expressed as concerns or suggestions for improvement on a draft law. Very good. Renewable energy technology is not equal to environmental protection. So the fact that there are technologies, thank God, that can even advance the environmental and efficient management of natural resources, does not mean that it protects the environment in its entirety and serves its integrity. [[16.00]] There are also concerns about wind power plants. There are positive sides and there are disadvantages, or at least concerns. For example, these facilities are located in agricultural land and have some kind of noise effect. I wouldn't even like to talk about landscape issues right now, but believe me, this is a landscape issue in our region, the Tatai Basin, where the wind canal ends, where this 170 or 180 wind power plants operate. At the same time, we have endured and endured the presence of these things to this day. But it is important to ask the bird protectors, the representatives of the Birdological Association, who regularly draw attention to the mortality of wind turbines, and the Hungarian stork stock is decimated to a very significant extent by the propellers that are placed there. My request is that when we look at a technology, a technology that points to the future, we also take into account its usefulness, its public benefit, its sustainability and its disadvantages, and we make decisions on this basis. The same applies to solar panels. Then, of course, it can be said from opposition colleagues that solar panels should not have been allowed to spread to such an extent that more valuable agricultural land could be used for this purpose. Therefore, restrictive provisions can be made with your help and with your support, as the next sitting will be the day when the law on this matter will be discussed, which will strengthen these planting conditions. However, they also need to see that solar panels are good in themselves, photovoltaics are good, important, but can play an additional role in guaranteeing Hungary's electricity security, security of supply, and they also need to see that regulation has costs, has technological requirements, and, among technological requirements, for example, as a possible solution for controlling batteries. It is this two-facedness that I do not really like when we have such debates at committee level or in various professional fora, that we express ourselves on a professional and policy issue without taking the trouble to look behind and look at the whole set of conditions and say nuancedly on the basis of it. Because good, yes, of course, let's install the solar panels, only in parallel we need to finance the additional costs, because the additional costs can only improve the network system that can safely absorb the electricity generated by these renewable energy technologies. And then a corresponding timetable must be set up, and we must not run ahead, because as good as it seems to be the integration of photovoltaic technology into domestic electricity generation and supply, on the other hand, this could be a serious system operation risk, and we can say that 5-10 percent of the population can benefit from it, but the other 90 percent would like to have a safe access to electricity at every stage of the day. You gotta watch out for that, too. Lake Tatai was also mentioned. They don't build hotels there. When three years ago it came up with the idea of building a five-star big giga hotel on the lake, I told the public that I didn't believe that such an investment could take place there. When it became clear to the investor two years ago that the municipality would not amend the local construction regulations and build according to the regulations in force at the time and at the moment, he calculated that this would allow the construction of a 50-60-bedroom boutique hotel at the most, and said that he was not interested in this investment opportunity and that he had stopped investing. Thank God. It is only necessary to demonstrate clearly and unambiguously the expectations of the local community to an investor that, if he undertakes to do so, he will not make the investment. So, two years ago, that question was settled. At the same time, a number of such developments and investments have been made in this area with the rehabilitation of the water habitats around the Old Lake, but not only with the rehab of the Old Lake, but also with the rehab of the Retirement Lakes, with the completion of the rehabilitation program of the entire Bye-Verre as a river basin, a bird-watcher was waiting for the development of a trail at the Bright Fountain, which shows that the government does not want to kidnap nature from the nature-walkers, but wants to help them to become more obsessed with this habit, this pleasure. It builds and renews tourist routes, cycling routes, tourist houses, ecotourism visitor centers, so in fact, by renewing ecotourism and tourism infrastructure, we want to help people, urban people, to get into nature and to be able to fill up. On organic farming: acacia tree. Congressman, let's face it, the acacia tree has planted the first acacia tree in Szarvas 300 years ago, the land's pretty big bounty and benefactor. Because we never built a permanent pen from poplar trees on the farm, we always built it out of acacia trees, because Mangalicakan couldn't destroy it in two days, but we could use it permanently. So we consider it important, and if it's Hungaricum, it's Hungaricum. Yes, the acacia tree is important in this regard. Regarding my fellow Member, Zita Gurmai's statement: that the Constitutional Court at times refers to the Fundamental Law to say that something is free or should not be done in the field of environmental affairs, it shows that we have created a strong Fundamental Law. Unfortunately, without you, the majority of governments have created a strong Fundamental Law, and on this basis, the Constitutional Court is actually helping to move forward on the rugged path of the sustainability transition, both for decision-makers and for decision-makers. I would also like to say to my fellow Member, Mr János Bencze, and to my fellow Member, Mr Lóránt Keresztes, that there are island-like advances in the reconstruction of the drinking water network. In my constituency, in the area of the Tatai Basin, a regional water supply system for 250,000 people has been operating for over 50 years with asbestos cement ridges. This exchange is taking place just now, in these months, or I can say years, because it is a major investment. Tatabánya, Tata, Oroszlány Központ, with the modernisation of waste water treatment technology and capacity expansion, we are talking about an overall development of 72 billion, together with the complete reconstruction of the two mining water mines. Water retention and water retention management. Mr Vice-President, it can be said that the detailed restoration of the ex-Bihari rinses as a sample programme has been launched, Cape Lakes have been developed, and tomorrow, in the course of the debate on agricultural laws, the relevant paragraph will also be included in the land use legislation in order to apply this type of water retention, retention and drainage management in as many places as possible, and this should not be at the expense of the farmer, who will give up some of his intensively cultivated areas. But food security must also be taken into account, and it must also be seen that if we move gradually or move in this direction, then how does it affect the country's food base, so that not only farmers can eat food there, but also the townspeople, because this is also an important issue. [[16.10]] Industrial cooperations what to do in practice? Mr Crossman, we have to work on things, and I realize that this is an extra concern for a Member to find investors in an industrial park, industrial plants, to persuade them to collect waste heat in a joint investment with the local district heating service provider, to fuel unnecessary heat from the technology, so that the other person who needs it can use it can use it. Similarly, in the case of water saving technologies, if water is used for cleaning and washing purposes somewhere, say, in the syringe factory, next door or a few hundred meters, there is a factory that requires cooling water, which we can provide integrated water in a system, and do not have to use twice as much, since the same water can be used for this purpose and for that purpose. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that these small changes, which have also started here in the legislative process, and may also appear in sectoral laws and legislation in the coming weeks, show that the national environmental programme can not only be a beautiful urban romance, but also a programme for the future planning of rural people and farmers with two feet on the ground. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-11-10-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Oláh, Vice-President, DK Group. Here you go.
u2022-11-10-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My fellow Member, Nacsa, said that axiom, that a good word never comes out of my mouth, is about a proposal from DK's representatives. Be careful not to have to do a redesign, to tell you that there are very good goals in it. It's okay, you heard that, right? Calm me down. [[Nacsa Lawrence smiles and spread his hands.]] So, it's got very good goals, but we've read most of them in the previous plan. So the problem is, as long as we don't look at the previous plan, we won't analyze it, and as long as this plan doesn't have time limits, tasks, responsibilities, resources, there will always be nice words in this story, and we don't see how these nice words will happen at the end of the day. The Ministry means bureaucracy. Doesn't it mean more bureaucracy if a story belonging to a unit is on several different wallets, not just two, but more wallets? We think that means more bureaucracy. But you are right, my fellow Member, that this is a technical matter, by the way. We think that an important message for the country, if it had a separate environmental wallet, would be an important message for the country not to be led by a police officer, not by a police officer to oversee education. I think these are important messages, but, of course, the environment could be good, but it doesn't work well, that's the problem. Maybe it could work even better if we're joined together. Unfortunately, the comments show that you don't want the wind turbine, that you're gonna smear it. Ex-Minister Palkovic may have wanted it, but the comments show that you do not want it at the end of the day. We very much regret this, because they work more efficiently than solar panels, and otherwise, my fellow Member Bencsik said that attention should be paid to the right mix, that wind energy could be a sort of complement to the solar element. We therefore urge you to do so, after all, to amend the regulations so that your government can finally issue the first such permission. With regard to Germany, I would like you to say one more sentence to my fellow Member Nacsa, namely that he appreciates this left-wing German green government that, by 2030, 80% of the total energy mix [[Nacsa Lőrinc: We'll see!]] from renewables. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: We'll see!]] If my fellow Member Nacsa says he's okay, I'd like to hear him say something positive once in a while. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for the DK benches.]]
u2022-11-10-104	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman János Bencze, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2022-11-10-105	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. My comment will be very brief. What I see is that we're finally in the middle of a real professional debate, and it's all been done in a human and decent voice, with little bits and pieces. In response to the words of Mr Nacsa and Mr Bencsik, I would like to ask that we show that we can support something without any political tricks. The negotiation of this proposal should not be included in a salad law. Let it not be that they put him in seventh place with six unacceptable laws, but that he should be independent. Then the political trick can't happen that you can tell us that even though we said the nice words, you didn't vote for it. That's all I ask of you in the spirit of integrity. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2022-11-10-106	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász, KDNP Group.
u2022-11-10-107	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to respond to Congressman Olah's words. We have to understand. The Green Deal of the Union is moving towards diversification. So it should not be said that wind power plants are more efficient than solar power plants, because the point of diversification is that we need to strengthen their various, mutually reinforcing and complementary capabilities. One more thing: we have to acknowledge that Hungary has a geographical potential: above 100-150 meters, this country is a weak country. There are certain areas in our country where wind power works effectively, but there are areas where we do not. There is an old type wind power plant and there is a new type. There is a glass shovel, which, if disassembled, has an extremely environmentally damaging effect, and there is a new type of wind power plant of carbon fibre. So there are two types of professional direction here. Obviously, if the Hungarian government is thinking about expanding the capacity of wind power plants, we will focus on new wind power plants, because there is a huge difference between capacities. There is a huge difference between the effectiveness of existing ones and the effectiveness of new types, almost double. Two megawatts are reached by the old type of fiberglass and four megawatts by a carbon fibre wind power plant. These are professional issues, but we must not have the professional debate, as my fellow Christian Member said, because diversification means that the 27 Member States are talking exactly about solar power, wind power, sustainable nuclear energy. By supplementing these, we 27 Member States will be able to reach climate neutrality in 2030 and 2055. These must not be distinguished, especially in party policy, because environmental protection is about us, Hungary. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-11-10-108	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Congressman David Dócs, the group of our country.
u2022-11-10-109	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that it does not matter that we have heard professional arguments from government representatives or from the opposition, because they may have brought us closer to the solution. However, I have to say, because one of the pro-government representatives said that Hungary is on the green road, that I, on the contrary, see that Hungary is wrong. We have all acknowledged from the opposition's benches that the national environmental programme, which is now placed on the table, is a highly professionally stable and good programme, and it would be very good if this were actually achieved in Hungary, but it goes against the fact that the future objectives are simply not in line with what is being done in the present. We have heard that profit-hungry large companies need to be effectively regulated, but the Hungarian government does not regulate these large companies, but is currently moving them from Hungarian tax forints to our country with very large public funds. I think that if we are to consider the long-term environmental load of wind power shovels here, I also think it should be pointed out what environmental pressures these giant companies are, by the way, collecting large profits and not collecting for us. Quite simply now, even a few years after their establishment, this burden is felt. What happens in ten or even 20 years? Not to mention that they don't usually work for Hungarian people, because the foreign workforce has now appeared, and the Hungarian people simply don't work in these factories. So I do not understand what we need, because they destroy the Hungarian land, destroy the Hungarian water supply, take the work away from the Hungarian people, and take out the profits. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause for the representatives of our country.]]
u2022-11-10-110	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The two-minute speeches are over. Congressman László Keresztes asked for the floor in a normal time frame. You have the floor, please.
u2022-11-10-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I promise I'll be very brief. Actually, I would like to ask a question, not for the first time, to my fellow Member, Hajnalka Juhász. It has been suggested that there is a policy debate here on the use of wind energy. We have been calling for this to happen for a very long time, and this debate must be transparent in some way. Obviously, there are arguments, there are arguments, there are solutions. Overall, we see that the balance is positive, which would help Hungary to increase energy self-sufficiency in the green. [[16.20]] Even a good month and a half ago, Prime Minister, my fellow Member here said that there was a debate within the government, and he would be pleased to have this issue discussed by Parliament. We had already tabled a proposal for a decision in the summer, then the Economic Committee voted against it with the argument that it did not take into consideration a series of issues that the government had not yet decided. So how can we be clear on this issue? Now Mr. Miniszer Palkovics has made an announcement, Prime Minister, categorically, that no such decision has been made. Is this debate still ongoing on the government side? What else is behind this, so what professional organizations are involved? Because what we see, these wind maps, they show that at exactly 150 meters high, the vast majority of the country's territory would already be operational, otherwise without state aid, these wind power plants would be profitable. Where is this process going? The question of the government's ability to use wind power is still open. And where does the ball bounce, so where do we wait for this decision to be made? I think that this not only concerns us, but also a lot of people in Hungary. Thank you very much in advance for getting us a little closer to the solution. Thank you.
u2022-11-10-112	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor.
u2022-11-10-113	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would also like to respond briefly to what has been said. First of all, thank you very much for everything we've heard. I would like to thank Mr János Bencsik and Mrs Hajnalka Juhász for their unconditional support for the motion. And thank you very much for the contributions of the Members ladies and gentlemen, in part where we received support, in part where we received praise, this was particularly kind to our hearts. Thank you, too, on behalf of colleagues, and thank you for your constructive contributions. On this side, and on my part, let us thank our colleagues, who are not only sitting in our ministry, because this document was born in a wide-ranging cooperation. You have this document before you, and that is why we are asking for its adoption, not only to be inter-walleted, but also to be consulted with civilians and other actors in society. The assessment of the 4th National Environment Programme is included in the first part of the 5th Environment Programme. Now, I wouldn't open a debate on legal issues, so let us draw attention to a few more issues that we didn't mention in the exposé, by the way. What has the government done to implement this programme in recent years? Firstly, it has provided significant support for energy efficiency, but it has helped to increase the energy efficiency of homes and thus reduce the burden for hundreds of thousands of families. If we have already talked so much about renewable energy sources, quite rightly, let us not go without saying that we have achieved the EU 2020 target for renewables, and even since then we have already exceeded it, and we have already talked about the results that have been made in this area several times in the course of today. There has also been a lot of talk about nature conservation issues. Here, very active conservation measures have been taken for Programme 4, habitat reconstruction interventions have taken place, and conservation activities have also been carried out by the government in order to preserve biodiversity, which we all consider to be very important together. There was also talk of thinking. In education for sustainability, I think the implementation of the previous programme has also put a lot of things on the table. And demand for environmentally friendly products has also increased among the population. This is where the expression about the awareness of the Hungarian population was expressed by the Members. Yes, it is always possible to increase the awareness of the Hungarian population, but I do not think it is worthwhile to praise it with these words, but we can also see awareness in the Hungarian population. The trees were also mentioned several times by the congressional ladies and gentlemen. Let us not forget, though, that there is now a program that plant ten trees for each newborn. However, this is a comprehensive, holistic approach introduced by the Hungarian government in this respect. This shows a view that sustainable development is really important to us and that it is important for us to have the situation of generations after us, and that we are trying to do so, among other things, in relation to forests. Let's not forget, since 2010, we have 45 million cubic meters more live wood. That's a significant number, I believe. The programme also includes strategic directions, challenges, objectives and funding. So that's what people who want to know can find in it. There's been a lot of talk about the authorities and the permits, and I think there's a few things that need to be mentioned. There is also extensive cooperation in the area of authorisation procedures. So the environmental authorities are carrying out a full investigation. Here, from disaster prevention through public health, heritage protection, nature conservation, a number of co-organs join in the birth of these permits. And if you get a permit because you think it's a good thing that you have the conditions for that, then you have to follow it. So from this point of view, let me reassure everyone that government agencies are doing the work. I am pleased, by the way, that so many Members and gentlemen have agreed that the goals are the same and that we thank you once again for the compliments we have received in terms of remediation or noise or air. In terms of air protection, it should also be mentioned at least once that Hungary receives 30 percent more contaminated air than it does. So that's also worth mentioning in this round. The Sajó pollution was also mentioned. Let us emphasise once again: we have offered the Slovak Government our assistance. There was no need for intervention at the Hungarian stage. To date, water authorities continue to monitor water quality and have never exceeded the limit. In this case, too, there was excellent cooperation between the various authorities and the various ministries. So let me reassure everyone that this is possible. In addition, significant progress has been made in the framework of the national programme for improving the quality of drinking water. There are five priorities, arsenic, boron, fluoride, ammonium or nitrite, which, compared to 2012, we have been able to reduce from 280 to 10 the number of settlements where this has not yet been brought under the limit. We are constantly working on this, as we are working on both noise and air protection. Let's just talk about waste. Let's clear the country. . Program, the....Put it on! Let's put the results of the program or even the WasteRadar application on the table. Only 150,000 illegally abandoned waste was transported in connection with the WasteRadar application. [[Sic!]] There was a Member who praised this result. We are working to continue this work and to live in a cleaner, more livable country. It is certainly the coherence between the economy and the environment that can give us the path we need to follow in the coming years, especially here in the time frame set by the programme. The current situation, particularly with regard to resource scarcity, makes this programme even more relevant. For our part, we thank you for your support in this respect, and, as Congressman Nacsa has said, we will also receive support from you in your implementation. Even on the water utility: the integration programme, I think, should not be left out, as this was also mentioned in the Prime Minister's comment. We launched it, not now, but last year, and now this programme has been expanded, and there, just like in other areas, we are constantly working on the only goal of creating a sustainable environment and conditions that provide safe drinking water for the Hungarian population. So thank you, if you can support this work. Thank you again, Mr President, for the Members. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[16.30]]
u2022-11-10-114	Dear Parliament, I thank the Secretary of State for her answers. The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, the Parliament must decide on a meeting matter. Vice-President Lajos Oláh just spoke during the general debate. In the event of opposition by the representatives of the Vice-President, the sitting may be held in the course of further negotiations of a separate motion only if the Parliament agrees to do so. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to agree that Vice-President Lajos Oláh should be able to chair the meeting during the further discussion of the motion. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. [[Előd Novák: If we had voted by clicking a button, we would be indecisive!]] I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted my motion. It would be an honor to discuss this at a later stage, Mr Vice-President, which will take place during the provision of the house rules. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill to amend certain laws relating to waste management until closure. Government referral T/1848. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mrs Anikó Raisz, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Technology and Industry, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2022-11-10-115	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Building the future is our joint task and therefore the government is working on economic policy measures linking economic development to ecological development. To this end, a new period for waste management will start from 1 June 2023. Domestic waste management will be transformed into a private company instead of that state. The new concession model ensures a uniform high standard of service in all Hungarian settlements, while maintaining the results of the reduction and meeting the EU's targets by the deadline. MOL won the concession tender issued by the Hungarian State, and the National Concession Office concluded the 35-year contract with the company accordingly. In the future, the company will carry out public waste management tasks, the collection and management of about 5 million tonnes of waste by households and entities each year, as well as the maintenance, operation and development of related facilities. The professional activity is supervised by a portfolio responsible for waste management from the government side. The concession company will be responsible for the collection, transport, pre-treatment, trade and transfer of waste streams under the municipal and extended producer responsibility scheme. For-profit companies may continue to perform tasks outside the scope of the concession, such as recovery or disposal. In addition, they may carry out activities falling within the scope of the concession or parts thereof as sub-contractors in cooperation with the concession holder. The model ensures a high level of waste management, gives room for innovation of private parties, cost-effective operation, preservation of efficiency gains and fulfilment of EU requirements. I am pleased to inform you that, thanks to government measures, the proportion of recovered waste in Hungary has more than doubled compared to 2010. I would like to point out that the European Union will require 65% recycling of municipal waste by 2035 and that only 10 percent of waste can be placed in landfills. Accordingly, MOL will be responsible for increasing the recycling rate and the efficiency of waste sorting, as well as for developing technological solutions that will allow more useful materials to be extracted from the waste. In the modified extended producer responsibility scheme, the manufacturer shall bear the financial responsibility for waste management after the product has become waste. The performance of the waste management obligations shall be carried out by the concession company on the basis of the financial contribution to be paid by the manufacturers. Currently, the revenue from the product fee provides the basis for financing the collection and recovery of waste generated from product-charged products. State tasks in this respect are carried out by the public waste management intermediary. With the launch of the extended producer responsibility scheme under the concession scheme, this public engagement will cease. In this context, the product charge loses its current waste-recycling function and is transferred to the extended producer responsibility system. The environmental product fee is intended solely as an economic regulator to influence demand and to shape consumer habits, as the product fee is established for products which pose a major challenge in waste management due to their high quantity or their environmental hazard. The Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office performs a central role in the concession system for waste management from the side of the state. One of the pillars of the legal and efficient operation of the concession system is the activity of pre-financing, fee regulation and fee monitoring. The amendment will allow the MEKH to carry out its tasks even more smoothly by clarifying the time limits for legislation. In the new system, it is also important to ensure a framework for the continuation and establishment of legal relationships during the transition period, both for public services for waste management and for institutional waste management. In addition, the proposal seeks to facilitate the effective application of the waste management authority in respect of the procedures necessary in the case of unlawfully placed or abandoned waste and the requirements relating to landfilling contributions. Certain procedural deadlines concerning the powers and procedures of waste management authorities will be amended. The person obliged to make an official decision shall have 30 days in the future for the removal of illegal waste or abandoned waste, instead of the current 15 days. It becomes more clear that the landfill levy is a public debt to be recovered as taxes. OJ L 343, 14.12.2012, p. 1. The purpose of the amendment is to reduce infringements in respect of products subject to a metal trade permit, to assist the control practice of the metal trading authority and to assist in the functioning of the legacies of metal dealers. The further amendments contained in the bill aim to ensure consistency of the legislative provisions, to clarify the provisions and to simplify the product charging system. Significant simplification is the elimination of the conformity assessment institution, the establishment of a national waste management public service plan and the introduction of a certification and authorisation procedure for waste management public service activities by deregulation of the relevant law and by stating that the level of protection achieved in this case should also be maintained. Dear House, As I said at the beginning of my expo, the government's goal is to link economic development to ecological development. I am convinced that this bill also contains forward-looking changes in this respect. I ask you to support the bill in the spirit of what you have said. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-11-10-116	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, There will now be speeches by keynote speakers. I give the floor to Mr János Bencsik, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2022-11-10-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! There may be a legitimate question as to why it is necessary to amend legislation every six months. Well, the transformation of a public service-based industry over a 35-year period requires gradual and inter-stage preparation. If new aspects have emerged before the changeover and the regulatory environment at the external Community level changes, the necessary corrections should be made and the international obligations of the country taken into account. T/1848 amending certain laws relating to waste management The bill was drawn up in line with the above requirements. Dear Parliament, The main element of the amendment is the adaptation of the extended producer responsibility system, under which the manufacturer is responsible for the choice of product and technology, the technology used in the production of the product, where compliance with the requirements of prevention and waste management, including the selection of the raw materials used, the design of the product's resilience to external impacts, its lifetime, recyclability, repairability, and the disposal and recovery of waste arising from the production and use of the product and from the product itself. [[16.40]] These are wordings that were completely normal and obvious 50 years ago. My fellow Member from Latorca, Vice-President, in his own environment as a child, has seen us buying products from manufacturers, producers of products that we needed, and we were convinced that the producer of products should provide us with the utmost attention, using the best raw material, the most efficient, with the goods bearing the conditions of re-use and recycling. We're practically talking about the same thing after 50 years. The development of manufacturing technology, behaviour, attitude and morale itself should be taken in that direction, including the enforcement of sustainability aspects. According to this principle, the producer of the product also bears responsibility for the redemption, take-back of the returned product, the collection, collection of waste from the product and the further waste management activities set out in the Environmental Product Fee Act, which include the financial responsibility for these activities, because everyone, whether they are manufacturers or buyers, starts thinking more responsibly through their pockets. While all these specifications are identified as the primary responsibility of the manufacturer, the consumer is not exempt from the responsibility for his or her environment. But once again, a significant proportion of the financial liability is essentially borne by the manufacturer. The product charge is established in the new scheme by deduction from the current unit product charge of the extended producer liability charge fixed for the product concerned, so that the producer will only have to pay the difference as a product fee, so that no additional cost increase is expected here, but the fate of the extended producer liability fund, which will start towards the concesor, will become more transparent. As part of the extended producer responsibility system, manufacturers of products are thus interested in saving material and resource use. The environmental product fee retains only its demand-control function, but it is essentially an economic regulator to shape consumer habits, if the customer is more aware of the extent of the product fee, and it can influence and shape its own decision whether or not to buy the product in question, whether it really wants to meet real needs or not. This will be a consumer's decision-making competence, but at the same time in pocket, so you will also feel the financial impact of this. Dear Parliament, The bill also aims to strengthen the control powers of the National Waste Management Authority and the effectiveness of its actions. As a result, it is also possible for the waste management authority to submit a request for a mortgage registration to the real estate authority in the context of the liquidation of illegally collected waste generated on a given property. Overall, the bill before us confirms the fulfilment of the basic requirements of the concession system, the sustainability of the retail reduction and the fulfilment of the EU's obligations and targets, and therefore the Fidesz Group supports the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-10-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Oláh, Vice-President, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2022-11-10-119	Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Waste management is inseparable from environmental protection. What you have done to protect the environment has already been discussed today, so I would like to leave it out here in view of the people present. Unfortunately, however, you have also managed to lower the quality of waste management. Recyclable waste has a normally functioning market across Europe. Hungary has reached the point of developing a tens of billion-dollar waste management industry in more than 15 years, with increasing competition and significantly decreasing prices and improved efficiency. That's when the government decided to bow down for this money and nationalize the entire sector. Technically, we now feel the unwarranted nature of this decision. It is also recalled that, in February 2021, government representatives here in Parliament voted in favour of the Act on the restructuring of waste management. They did so despite the fact that János Áder was then President of the Republic and then the Constitutional Court raised objections to the proposal. But how did you guys proceed with this concession procedure? We remember that only one candidate participated in it, namely MOL, the competent minister, in his speech at Mathias Corvinus College days earlier, did not hide the fact that the whole thing was actually on the initiative of the oil company. So not because you thought it was a good direction to go this way in this country, but a company arrived, took an initiative, and you took it in, destroying the normal competitive market that had been established before. It's not MOL's fault, he made an experiment, but the government that accepted it in this way, in this way. In the sector there was a huge outrage, and according to a number of waste management experts, MOL's potential for cooperation was unilateral and unprofessional, which cannot be signed by a responsible leader experienced in this field. According to them, it is difficult to charge by not knowing the exact parameters of the task, from where to, how often waste should be transported, for example. In their most critical remarks, the professionals said that the concession, the single invitation to tender, the model contract, which would list the profession, the tasks, is simply not realistic. I ask, therefore, who have been consulted on professional aspects, who have listened in substance to industry players who are afraid that they will be excluded from the profession, because only the partner close to you will be given the opportunity. The entire industry already operates three times more expensively, with public service providers that are driven to losses by a ban on price increases linked to the reduction of costs, and recycling is not good either. But let us look at today's bill from another point of view. The proposal to amend certain laws relating to waste management was aimed at reducing emissions of materials in the economy, returning as much waste as possible to the circular economy, and reforming the Hungarian allocation system, which has not been effective. With the recovery rates, we're in very bad shape. Every five years, the EU puts tight collection rates on plastic, wood, and I could add more, and we are completely behind target levels. However, your bill contains concerns not only in terms of implementation in practice, but also in terms of legal contradictions. The concept of maintaining a product-pricing system after the introduction of the EPR system is legally incomprehensible, since the two systems are, according to many professionals, an option that is mutually exclusive. This fact is also referred to in the wording of the concession itself in the following way. With the launch of the extended producer responsibility scheme under the concession scheme, the former State involvement will cease and, in this context, the product fee will lose its current waste recovery function and will be transferred to the extended producer responsibility scheme. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, In addition to legal concerns, there is also an area of practical concern where a meaningful social dialogue would be unavoidable. The legislator intends to influence the volume of flow of materials by increasing the price of products. At the same time, there are those who say that the change in product tariffs can have less influence on the supply side, and that from the demand side, it is expected that in the short term neither consumer habits nor radical changes in FEMCG trading practices can be expected. [[16.50]] But there's another problem. It is completely incomprehensible and unacceptable that, when the consort has every opportunity to perform the tasks of the institutional sub-activity so far, and even planned to be the coordinator of the EPR and the redemption system, it is virtually free to use the free capacity of market participants to carry out the institutional waste management task. The State decided to grant the public service tasks to the concession, which was granted by the concession holder with exclusive rights, but also by the consort free market operator. I stress that we are talking about capacities that are used by the consort's free market competitors. In addition to restricting the free use of the capacities of anticompetitive, still remaining free market players, the right of ownership and the capacity to develop. Do you think that free market players can then be expected to improve their private capital use when the free market capacity can be used by a competitor, the consort, at virtually any time freely for the performance of the concession? In the bill, you will deal in detail with the amendment of the 2011 Environmental Product Award Act, with changes to the product fee. Apart from the concept, it provides virtually little information on the planned EPR system, its operation and fees. What's the point of a bill where we don't get complete information about the rules or the operation of the system? The rules and draft law on the EPR system need to be discussed in a meaningful society, immediately and in parallel. Joint opinions on the two systems and social consultation are necessary, rules on one system cannot be adopted without full knowledge of the rules on the other system. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2022-11-10-120	Thank you very much, Congressman, Mr Vice President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-11-10-121	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The package of laws on waste management before us contains nine amendments, of which two laws create substantive changes, as already mentioned, in the Environmental Product Fee Act and the Waste Act. In my opinion, the other amendments are of a legislative harmonisation nature and are intended to supplement it. The amendment to the Environmental Product Fee Act is primarily justified by the modification of the extended producer liability regime. In the revised extended producer responsibility scheme under the concession scheme to be launched on 1 July 2023, the manufacturer shall bear the financial responsibility for waste management during the product's life cycle after becoming waste. The performance of the waste management obligations shall be carried out by the concession company from the financial contribution to be paid by the manufacturers. To this end, it is necessary to amend the relevant provisions in the Environmental Product Fee Act. The amendment provides the opportunity for the National Waste Management Authority to verify that the farmers concerned have fully complied with their waste management obligations. In support of re-use, it ensures that there is no obligation to charge a product price for the quantity of material added abroad during the re-exportation process for preparation for re-use abroad. By amending the Waste Act, it will be noted that combating illegal landfilling and modern waste management, focusing on environmental aspects, is a priority national objective and a state task. The bill gives the competent authorities more rights and opportunities to take action against infringers than ever before. We believe that there is a need for a deterrent level of legislation on illegal landfills and powers that authorities can effectively use in order to reduce the number of illegal landfills in the country. After all, Hungary's national goal is a clean, natural environment, or, as we Christian Democrats call it, the protection of the created world. The excessive waste produced by the consumer society is a problem enough in itself, but illegal waste disposal is making us all miserable. On average, 328 thousand cubic meters of illegal waste is generated annually in Hungary; if we imagine Kossuth Square, this amount would cover Kossuth Square at a height of six metres. Combating illegal landfilling is a common responsibility and responsibility for all of us, the individual, the family and the community can do a lot of good in prevention by creating an approach, educating, giving a good example, but at the same time, it is the task of the State to find, catch, punish illegal landfills and remove the waste deposited there. A special programme has also been established in the Government's climate and nature conservation action plan announced in 2020 - Clean the country up! A title in order to combat the eradication of illegal waste. At the same time, it is not enough to deal with illegal waste disposal, but also to reduce the amount of waste itself and, wherever possible, to support recycling and selective waste collection. Accordingly, last year we banned single-use plastics, today we can meet products made from recycled, natural or decomposing materials instead of environmentally destructive, disposable plastic straws, glasses, plates, shopping bags in fast food restaurants and shops. These are good and important steps, but we still have a lot to do in this area. In our view, the current bill contributes to the fight against illegal landfill, so the KDNP fraction supports it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.)
u2022-11-10-122	Welcome, fellow Members, to our work. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr János Bencze. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-11-10-123	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, We can see a very complex material, very diverse and very double for me. I can simply see the good intentions of effectively solving the waste problem in Hungary, but life experience tells me that I need to see Golem or Frankenstein, which was created by MOL. They're all in one hand, aren't they? It will be time to decide what the decision is good for and what it is for, and since no one is a polythorax, I am not, we have published this to various expert groups to look at, and the questions have arrived. The elimination of illegal landfills is definitely a very good thing, and it will definitely be a priority issue. But what I have said before: we must also strive to ensure that these illegal landfills are not created at all, so that illegal waste is not disposed of in the area that has already been cleaned or in a new area. If someone has been in such a place and has been involved in such a program, it can be clearly seen that illegal landfills will contain materials that the citizen simply cannot place in a fair and reasonable way elsewhere. Everyone is trying, but the poor Hungarian population either does not have the money, or the environmental culture does not have the means to do so, and it is easier for them to cover it somewhere in the border, at the edge of one of the hosts' lands and forests, and if the farmer does not move in time, then even he can be punished, because he will never prove that he didn't put it there. In any case, I would also like to call for a meaningful step in this. Jobbik's suggestion would be that the experience, not 12 years ago, for more than 30 years, is that these waste will definitely be disposed of. Whatever the Hungarian governments suffered, they were always out there. Here, the only way to save money from product charges would be to create municipal waste yards where this waste can be deposited with some kind of quantitative limit, not industrially. Consider, for example, I mentioned the Golem, this Golem sees in the MOL that there are substances that can be recycled for a very good price. But what about the burdens that have never been solved anywhere in the world? They said there were fiberglass products here in relation to wind power plants, others. Tyres, there are a million products that need to be resolved, and I very much hope that we will find a solution, more precisely the government has to find a solution, because it has two thirds of them, and it has every opportunity. But very important questions for the Secretary of State are that it will be possible to create municipal waste yards to solve the problem of illegal waste disposal, because if I have to, I will set a good example of Hungary, where the municipality has done this and it works. The illegal landfill has stopped, although it is costing the transport, but it has been better, because it has to be transported anyway. Those who came to us about this amendment were a professional question, these car crashers, because what they're taking over is scrap metal. [[17.00]] Here is the question of the Secretary of State, how and how this will apply to them, how and how this will work. It is a complete profession, it is a complete sector with enormous expertise, and it should be noted that Hungary's fleet of vehicles is very old, the average age is 12 years, but if we look around in the poorest regions, it is close to 20 years. People who drive these cars get to a doctor, school, shopping, not buy a new car because they're malicious, they don't want to drive GDP, they just can't afford it. And if you take a Suzuki out of here as an example with a 1.3 engine, if you get someone to renovate your engine, it'll be 600 thousand forints, if you buy an engine from a chopper, it'll only be 60 thousand forints, recycled it, and went on with it. The question is whether this kind of recycling will continue in some form, or MOL will treat cars as net waste materials and trigger the illegal car dismantling that can be hunted, but I don't know what they bring in, special commandos? Because the Hungarian man solves everything, and so does your government, so there's the other side. So I would ask you, if this is not regulated here, or if you have not thought this through carefully, then please think about it and sit down with professional organisations, because if you make bad decisions, you will make it impossible for families, businesses, working people who work fairly in the car demolition business. Veterans get parts from here, car builders, SUVs who do contribute with their money to the operation of the Hungarian economy because they spend on a hobby that takes money, and anything they buy, fuel, new parts, other tools, is driven by taxes to the Hungarian economy. I know it's a small segment, but it's worth bowing down to make sure it doesn't get into MOL's hands, but stays in the cycle. This is the greatest professional issue, and I would like to have an answer to that, and, if possible, I would like to have a conversation with the Secretary of State, the Secretary of State, in addition to that in person, because there have been other issues that we do not want to raise before the great plenum, and I do not think they are important enough to be addressed here. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of our country and the Jobbik.]]
u2022-11-10-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Group of our country is Mr Dócs Dávid. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-11-10-125	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, According to the quote, if we throw something away, we don't get rid of the health risk, we just push it to another country, I could say that you can see the Tisza trash mountains coming from Ukraine that are flooding our country; and not only will we push it to another country, but to another age, because we're leaving this trash here for our great-grandsons, because the plastic we're producing is going to break down about that time. The previous item also touched on the subject, since the reduction of waste generation should rightly be one of the key points of the national environmental programme, as we produce more waste in a year, including management and management of the Fertő lake. That is why I would not describe our position on the subject for a long time, since this bill is highly diverse and extensive, and I would therefore like to take just a few exemplary examples in order to demonstrate that this bill is often unviable, unfortunately. In our view, in the future, the aim should be to create as little waste as possible, rather than increasing year after year, but rather declining waste in our country. In order to preserve our environment, it was very right to switch to disposable plastics such as plastic cutlery, disposable vessels and straw, plastic products and instead to the production of these articles from environmentally friendly materials. The other largest number of waste types are PET bottles, which should be made deposit-payable in order to prevent them from further contaminating our waters, our lands, our forests or our living environment. And speaking of the living environment, honourable members of the government, at the very beginning of your decision, there is the paragraph that the municipal government provides for public cleanliness and cleanliness tasks in the field of environmental and municipal health, including the cleanliness of public areas, the treatment of municipal waste collected from the public area. The only problem with this is that I was still living as mayor of a small settlement, when most of the local government's own revenue was taken away when they put new burdens on our necks, when I was able to see that the costs of mandatory tasks increased instead of the norm, and this task allocated to the new municipalities was just as much lacking for the settlements struggling with restrictions, which were kicking the last ones, as a hunchback, as the municipalities did not ask for extra obligations, but for additional resources and wanted. However, natural persons whose property is being disposed of by third parties are not far better off, as the current addition could lead to a serious problem. The 2012 CLXXXV on waste. Law 12 The following paragraph is added: if the waste producer or natural person has failed to fulfil the obligation to dispose of waste imposed by a final decision of the waste management authority and if the waste management authority has failed to comply with Article 78/E. According to paragraph 1 (b), the waste management authority places a mortgage on the property subject to the obligation for the benefit of the Hungarian State up to the amount of the claim and interest relating to the enforcement activities; the real estate authority shall, at the request of the waste management authority, register the mortgage right in the real estate register on the basis of a final decision of the waste management authority. In practice, this means that in many examples in life, when, above all, in the area of the No-Go zones, the dumpsters, but the sufferers, are not the dumpsters, they accumulate debt or lose their properties, their territories. The bill, although it mentions the need to discuss the use of real estate and the dispute as to who owns it and who owns it, is an amendment to the proposal to settle the dispute on the basis of which the use of the property and the person of the user can be clarified, but the main question must not be who uses it or who owns it, but the question is who illegally planted the waste on it. In order to avoid this and solve the problem, a drastic increase in the penalty for illegal litters and landfills would be a preventive, correct and necessary solution not to run away from the problem, but to get ahead of it. For this reason, we ask the honourable members of the Government to place the emphasis on this, so that our beloved country may not be a dump in Central Europe, but rather a jewel in it. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of our country and the Jobbik.]]
u2022-11-10-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I am now going to ask Mrs Anikó Raisz, rapporteur on the agenda, to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Dr. Anikó Raisz:]] Yes, he does. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-11-10-127	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Again, I would like to respond briefly, perhaps even shorter, to what has been said. Although I personally do not know how exactly what happened 50 years ago, Mr Bencsik is right, we would like to achieve the same or at least the same thing. Thank you very much for your statements of support, and thank you very much for your constructive criticisms and contributions. Perhaps we should define this whole issue as a system, so perhaps, with a systemic approach, we should not rather talk about waste management alone, but about the circular economy or the transition to it, about its design, because that is the only way we can interpret this whole bill. The debate on the waste concession has already been held, so I wouldn't reopen it, I wouldn't start it, I wouldn't start it, I wouldn't start it, I wouldn't do it again, I wouldn't do it again, I wouldn't do it again, I would do it, I would do it, I would do it now, we would do the part where we create the legislative framework and the government regulation for this; otherwise, we didn't miss social consultation in this framework, and of course, we will also have the implementing regulation with the detailed rules. These are all part of a gradual transformation, as Mr Bencsik has already said, this cannot be done at the same time, but it is only 35 years, and we need to take these transformative steps gradually, and we are moving forward on this path, taking into account the aspects of norm-saving and norm-clearness. [[17.10]] On the EPR, I thank you very much for your comments, and also for the fact that, if I remember correctly, Mr Member and I were also quoted literally. In fact, the point here is that the product fee is given a different function; more specifically, one function of its dual function remains in the following. This is not a devil thing, it is a perfect fit for the government's policy on the environment, the circular economy, the protection of the created world, and we are also paying attention to the careful and careful conduct of the market, as well as of economic operators. The negotiations were mentioned by several people. We have also conducted professional consultations, including with these organisations, who are active in these areas, and we are, of course, open to further discussions. I had to answer to scrap metal. It is a mixed issue: part of it belongs to the concession system, another part of it, and the metals from the construction and demolition waste fall outside it. So car yes, that's the property of the concession company, and that's not the property of the metal other than that, so it's from construction and demolition waste. In addition, MOL will pay a service fee, so it will not be free to use the market or use only free capacity there, so there is a legal framework for this. The municipal waste yards have already been mentioned by the Members and ladies in the previous debate. These have been developed with continuous government support, a number of EU projects have already been built, we are also planning and the consort plans to build additional waste yards. We also believe that we will continue to develop these in the future. And since there has been so much talk about illegal waste rightly and we fully agree with its remodeling, prevention is the goal that we have to set for ourselves beyond liquidation, and we are trying to achieve that prevention with an intensive approach forming, and we intend to extend it in the future, because it is indeed our common goal to make Hungary a pure country. So, in the future, we are really trying to develop this system by encouraging innovation, using another waste collection, waste management concept and system in one capacity, involving the economy and cooperating in society. This bill is another step in this, and we will ask for the support of this House. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-11-10-128	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! The amendment proposals can be submitted tomorrow, Friday, at 4 p.m. Dear House, Before we continue our work, the Parliament must decide on a matter of meeting leaders. Vice-President Lajos Oláh just spoke during the general debate. If the Vice-President has spoken, he shall be allowed to hold the meeting in the course of the further hearing of the independent motion only if the Parliament has agreed to do so. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to agree that Vice-President Lajos Oláh should be able to chair the meeting during the hearing of the motion. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] It's a lot of people you can see. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted my motion. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill to amend certain employment laws until closure. Government referral T/1845. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I now give the floor to State Secretary Zsolt Krisztián Kutnyánszky, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Technology and Industry, rapporteur of the item on the agenda, who will give his speech on the pulpit section of the pulpit. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
u2022-11-10-129	Mr President, Dear Parliament, The government remains committed to supporting families in the highest priority and does its utmost to protect the work-based society. The employment bill before you includes changes that will facilitate the coordination of work and private life, and will make working conditions more predictable and transparent in Hungarian workplaces. In parallel with the economic recovery, there has been a turnaround in the labour market over the past period. Since 2010, domestic employment policy has been an undisputed success. A million more people work than they did 12 years ago. For months there have been over 4.7 million employees in our country. The employment rate exceeded 80 per cent, which was already more than 5 percentage points higher than the average of the 27 Member States in the EU, even though we were still in the pool in 2010. The number of job seekers is also record low and the unemployment rate is one of the lowest in the European Union. Just like in the labour market, the Hungarian government has achieved outstanding success in family politics. It helps families, among other things, with tax incentives, home-building and rent subsidies, and with favourable legislation. The Hungarian family support system is exemplary at global level and provides the most support in Europe. The government's goal is to have as many children as possible in Hungary, which is the basis for Hungary's future. Honourable Members, Since the family-friendly turn of 2010, the civilian government has been working to make it easier to start a family, to have children and to raise them in Hungary. The government's every decision is guided by the principle of giving families freedom of choice so that they can organise their lives in the way that is ideal for them. This requires a great deal of labour law regulation in our country that helps to coordinate work and private life. The bill before you now is also intended to facilitate this. It aims to ensure equal opportunities for men and women in employment and equal treatment at work, by facilitating the work of workers' parents or carers and the coordination of the family's life. It is proposed to double the number of father days by transposing the EU directive on work-life balance into national law. Thus, the persons concerned may have ten working days after the birth of their child, which may substantially facilitate the performance of the tasks arising at birth for the family. Paternity leave shall be granted in no more than two instalments at the time of the father's request. Until the child is three years old, the employee is entitled to 44 working days of parental leave, which his employer may grant at the same time as his request. Parents are entitled to parental leave or unpaid leave for the care of the child separately and even in parallel. Labour law rules thus further encourage fathers to share in the care and training of their children as equally as possible. The regulation of paid paternity leave and parental leave, according to the bill, can make a significant contribution to allowing parents to take more leave for their children and families, so that the family can spend more time together. The proposal strengthens equality between women and men and helps to ensure consistency between work and child rearing. The bill also provides more flexible working conditions for small children. Accordingly, until the child is eight years old, parents may apply for changes in their place of work and working arrangements, employment in the framework of teleworking or part-time work. The employer shall reply in writing to their reasoned written request, which shall also indicate the date of the change, within 15 days. The latter substantially strengthens the rights of the worker and also increases the flexibility of the work. [[17.20]] The draft law also provides for the transposition of caregiver's leave, whereby a worker whose relative or a person living in a household needs care for serious health reasons may be exempt from his/her obligation to make available and work for five working days. The measure will help to strengthen social security and will give relatives the opportunity to take appropriate measures in the event of a problem. The proposal also complements the cases of termination bans, i.e. the employer cannot terminate the employment relationship during paternity leave, parental leave and carers' working time allowance, which represents a high level of protection for workers. Dear Parliament, The proposal also includes harmonisation of legislation on the transposition of the directive on transparent and predictable working conditions, which responds to changes and challenges in the labour market caused by demographic change, digitalisation and new forms of employment. In this context, the bill contains new rules on the obligation to provide information and probation in respect of employment relationships. Employers will then have to provide more detailed information with shorter deadlines, such as information on the conditions of employment in place of the current 15 within 7 days and notify the employee of any changes at the latest on that day. It is proposed that, in the case of fixed-term employment established for a period of not more than one year, the length of the probationary period should be proportionate in the light of the expected duration of the contract and the nature of the work and limit the re-trial period between the same parties. Compliance with the Directive is also served by guarantees regarding the modification of working time arrangements, which contribute to the transition of workers to a more predictable and safer form of employment. The predictability of work is increased by the provision of the package of laws that the previously notified working time schedule can be changed by collective agreement only 48 hours before the start of work at the latest. It is a new element in the proposal that the employer should provide free of charge statutory training required to perform the job tasks, which should include working time, where appropriate during working hours. Dear Parliament, The bill is also forward-looking for other provisions. Accordingly, the OSH Act is also amended, which helps to protect workers more effectively. The basis for the prevention of work accidents and occupational diseases is risk assessment and will therefore be linked to higher education in several cases. A clear demonstration of irregularities can be even more effective and even more effective in OSH inspections. The bill introduces additional warranty conditions in order to ensure a higher standard of professional OSH activities, and also enhances the employer's obligation to notify and register chemicals that may have adverse effects on workers or their offspring. The aim of the amendment is to protect workers' health, to prevent health damage from employment and to comply with EU rules. A further element of the package of proposals is that job seekers can report by electronic means changes in their data and circumstances, thus reducing administrative obligations requiring the presence of job seekers. The labour market situation of VET students can also be strengthened as the employment of dual VET students will be considered as a period of employment after the amendment. The bill also takes significant and forward-looking steps to amend the law on sectoral dialogue committees and certain aspects of medium-level social dialogue. The abolition of the six-month ban on the establishment of sectoral dialogue committees, as laid down in the existing rules of procedure, will help the social partners to initiate the establishment of a sectoral dialogue committee more easily and without time constraints. With this amendment, the conditions for extending collective agreements to the sector will be more transparent for the social partners. Dear Parliament, The amendments to the Labour Code were submitted by the Government to the Parliament after consultation with the social partners, and further amendments were agreed with the social partners. In addition to the interests of workers and families, legislative plans also take into account the burden-bearing capacity of the budget and the scope and scope of business. The proposal clearly demonstrates that the government is giving priority to both family policy and employment policy, which are the cornerstones of social policy. The new sections of the bill will enter into force from 1 January 2023 if they are adopted by Parliament. Dear Parliament, Thank you for your attention. I trust you agree with the amendments contained in the bill. I ask you to vote to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-11-10-130	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Zsolt Szabó. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-11-10-131	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The visible T/1845 in front of us. Proposal No 1 contains the transposition of certain employment laws under the EU directive. About 37 laws are amended, which is a fairly broad category, but I believe that the principles are always the same. The Fundamental Law of Hungary, together with the Labour Code, contains paragraphs and regulations that clearly state that family and work must be compatible and must cooperate. From a worker's point of view in particular, but also from an employer's point of view, there are clear and firm clarifications in the legislative mass. We see clearly the basis for this legislation if we look back over the past period and look at what has happened in recent years. Based on the information and figures issued by the Statistical Office in April this year, it is clear that the number of unemployed people has fallen compared to April of the previous year, and that we can see much more beautiful numbers than the data of April two years earlier. Over the last 12 years, there have been one million new jobs, one million new jobs, and a third of the number of jobseekers has fallen compared to 2010, which, I think, is a very important directive that the government represents. The Hungarian government sees the task mainly in two things, both in maintaining existing jobs and in creating new jobs with subsidies, and it can be seen that during the period of the virus, even now, during the energy crisis and the war situation, this thinking is clearly successful. Complementing this with amendments to the tax and contribution laws, new jobs are constantly being created. There have never been so many people working in Hungary, as the Secretary of State noted. If we look back with a comparative analysis, we can see that there were districts in Hungary that had a unemployment rate of over 20 per cent 12 years ago, and these are also figures. There were times when the number of people seeking employment and jobs in the general population was almost 12 percent nationwide. It can be said that both young people, i.e. young people, and the entire active working age population, have moved at a similar level, and today we have good results. Our aim in recent years has been to keep as many jobs as possible, to create as many jobs as possible, and this package of legislation coincides with the Hungarian government's intention to continue this process. Mr Secretary, you have mentioned a lot of factors, and I would just like to mention a few things. On the one hand, this package of legislation is a clear guarantee for both workers and employers, guarantees and clarifications with which work-life coherence can be established and developed and promoted. [[17 .30]] It contains very precise and beneficial rules in many respects, even with regard to the support of childbearing, i.e. the presentation and reference to other legislation. I consider it important to extend so-called Father's Day, because it has doubled, father's leave is available for ten days, and after the birth of their child, it cannot be redeemed financially. This must be taken out and accounted for in any case; it creates extremely favourable, regulated conditions in this area. I also consider it important that, up to the age of three years of the child, the period of parental leave defined in 44 working days, for which employers also have to be accounted for, should be published and in the way that the parent definitely requires it. Perhaps one of the most important areas is helping those who care for their family members and relatives. I consider the definition of caregiver leave and the granting and making available of five days to be an important legislative amendment on my part. For parents with small children, a flexible insurance system is introduced. Until the child is eight years old, the place of work, the modification of the working order, the telework framework, the parent may apply for part-time work, submit a request, and the employer must reply in writing to this request within 15 days, ensuring that the parent has the right to raise his child. An amendment to the Directive, which clearly states that the assumed content of employment, standards and expectations are to be provided by the employer in writing to the employee not within 15 days, but within 7 days, thereby ensuring that he is able to do his work with parameters and conditions such as those in the oral agreement. In terms of work, it is necessary to inform the worker, whether there is a collective agreement or not, of the shift and the order in which the package of legislation is to be classified, that it is necessary to provide for a proper rest period during the night shift, and that this rest period must be given to him in any case. In any event, these 37 legislative amendments include the safeguards that workers will receive in the next period. The whole point of the process remains to strengthen job retention, job creation, so that it does not burden workers or employers in economic terms, nor in terms of tax law, nor in terms of the central budget, and that it can function harmoniously. If the Honourable Parliament adopts this package of legislation, it will be able to take effect from 1 January, thus complying with both EU standards and our own long-term economic strategy. I call on the honourable groups to support the legislative package and to adopt this law. Dear House, Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-11-10-132	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr László Kordás. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-11-10-133	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, He has long rated the positive results that this bill contains. Let me light it up a little bit through employee glasses, see how an employee sees it. First of all, the Democratic Coalition is a Hungarian party involving Europeanism, whose important objective is to ensure that Hungarian workers live in conditions at least as much as their Western European counterparts, at least under the same conditions as their European counterparts. We believe that their work, the work of Hungarian workers, is worth nothing less than the work of any other worker living in Europe. That is why it is interesting that the draft law that we are about to see is actually about taking over two directives in the European Union. In fact, this means that on 176 pages 258 of this draft legislation is amended, this salad law, which means that today's legislation is not in line with these two directives. Thus, according to the European spirit, the European practice that European workers can enjoy today, the Hungarian legislation does not comply, and even according to the current practice, what Mr. State Secretary said, he is trying to smuggle the minimum values of these directives into Hungarian legislation. So, overall, we can say that we do not agree with the application of these minimum values. We believe that Hungarian workers deserve more, and therefore I have also made an amendment to this bill, which I ask you to support. Let us look at the way and the outcome of this bill. The way is basically what you have promised the European Union, by the way, is that you will engage in social consultation with partners. The Secretary of State has also indicated that these consultations have been carried out. Well, I would like to ask in a low voice that the OSH Act, which you quoted, was in agreement with the National Labour Protection Committee in sufficient depth, with appropriate professional content, and also with the medical trade unions in the field of plant health. I think we're gonna get a "no" for both of them. But speaking of negotiations, you've had two years, two years, to transpose this directive into domestic law. On the other hand, on 2 August, these two years expired, and they quickly put together a proposal, sent it to the social partners, and then one day they asked their opinion on what their opinion was through paragraph 258. You don't seem to understand how the social partners work. Neither trade unions understand how they operate nor do they understand how the employer side works, but I will try to explain this. I have recently been the chairman of one of these alliances, and I would like to say, Mr Secretary, that the day and a half you have given to the position of trade unions and you have given to employers are immeasurably few. Once again, you had two years to transpose this directive into the domestic legal order, in two years you could not afford to discuss it, while a year and a half ago, the trade union side of the negotiating partners put a united position on your table in order to think about paternity leave, parental leave for the government, and suggestions for the employee side. You have not added a letter for a year and a half, and have not even put it on the agenda at the Permanent Consultation Forum of the Competition and Government. So, so much for how the negotiation in itself took place. The problem is that, unlike the way you often think about the social partners, those who are involved in these negotiations, three employers and three trade union officials do not represent their own views in these negotiations. This mandate and the agreed opinion are designed to receive a bill from the government, which is obviously discussed by the associations with the trade unions in the sector, and then to negotiate with the officials in the workplace, and then, synthesized, return the government as an opinion and as proposals to be formulated. [[17.40]] On the other hand, once again, you have given the trade unions one day to do this work, and also to employers' associations, obviously with little success. So I think that the depth and extent of the conciliation was in no way adequate for this law to be discussed in this way here. But let's get to the point, the content. Mr. Secretary of State mentioned the amendment to the Labour Protection Act. There are a lot of laws being amended by this salad law, and I wouldn't go into all of them, but I would like to reflect on the laws that the Secretary of State has said in his expo. One of these laws is the Health and Safety Act. If we look at the last 12 years, if you have already mentioned this in your exposé, let us look at what has happened in the field of labour control and labour safety control. Until 2011, there was an independent Inspector General for Labour and Labour Safety as an independent national body, with regional representations, with about 800 labour inspectors. You have terminated this office, and in 2012 the legislation on this matter was amended by merging it under the National Employment Service and there was only one Deputy Director-General overseeing these two areas. But that was not enough, and the prestige of this institution has been further reduced, and today, in the ministry or government offices, there is a department head or a deputy head of department dealing with this area. At the same time, the experience of safety checks shows that the number of mutilation accidents and fatal accidents has increased over the past period. I think this is largely linked to a government measure that has made this department of national competence virtually so that labour controls and safety checks have been reduced and, on the other hand, infringements have increased. For my part, I can't imagine anything worse than a dad or a mom going to work in the morning and never coming back to her family again. That's what this process means! If the OSH bill is in this salad law, why don't you try to confirm it? As it follows from the spirit of these two directives, to strengthen the labour authority and to carry out more controls, to pay more attention to compliance and enforcement of legislation. But while we are at it, let us look at the issue of father's leave, which is also enshrined in this directive. Left-wing governments introduced this institution, the institution of father's leave, in the labour code, then five days and a hundred percent leave payment. This directive now states that it must be increased for at least ten days and that at least the remuneration corresponding to social security benefits should be paid to the worker. Thus, this is achieved for the ten days alone. But on the basis of the fact that for the first five days there will be a 100% absence fee, but for the second five days that you now add to the institution created by left-wing governments, only 40 percent of the absence fee is due, I ask you, who do you think is the father who will sacrifice 60% of his salary in order to stay at home? He's not gonna be such a dad. They simply won't take these second five days. On the other hand, the trade union proposal is to give workers 15 days of parental leave in the event of the birth of a child and 20 days in the case of twin birth and a 100% absence fee for this entire period. This is what my amendment is about, because the shadow government of the Democratic Coalition and Klára Dobrev supports the efforts of trade unions in this direction, and we want to ensure that this 15 and 20 days will be awarded by the legislator with a 100% absence fee. Overall, if we look at the transposition of these two directives into the Hungarian legal order, then I say that at the minimum levels, perhaps, but in no way does this proposal fit into the spirit of the two directives and in the direction that it means that workers can live better and live in a better and more European environment. Thank you very much for your attention, thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]]
u2022-11-10-134	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go.
u2022-11-10-135	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. I will also address what shadow minister Kordás has to say, because I disagree with him on a number of points, and there have been criticisms that I would like to answer. At the same time, I would like to approach the law in a general framework, and then I would also like to talk to you about the specifics, even with the Momentum fraction, which has not had a single debate in the last day and a half so important as to come in, even though there has been a public debate, a debate on wealth management, a debate on church and a number of debates. But at least now we can have a good debate about employment law, because it is an important issue, labour is always an important issue, economic issues are always important, especially because we had our goal in 2010, and we insist on building a work-based society. That is why in 2010 we started the economic turnaround, the change of perspective that was built on the creation of a labour-based economy and not on the distribution of unemployment benefits. We can all remember that in 2010, at the end of the left-wing governance already mentioned by Mr Kordás, unemployment was 12 percent in Hungary, and more than 1 million working adults were forced to live from humiliating unemployment benefits. You did not mention this among the results of the left-wing governments, Mr Kordás, although this was also the case, unfortunately. Since the 2010s, during the last 12 years, Fidesz-KDNP has managed to create 1 million new jobs and permanently bring the unemployment rate below 4 percent. This high level of employment and low unemployment, the ratio below 4 per cent, has been preserved with minor swings, but even during the Covid crisis, and it seems that, even in the current war-sanctioned-inflationary times, and in the midst of the raging energy crisis, we have managed to maintain jobs. We're working to keep it that way. So our goals remain unchanged, preserving jobs, creating new jobs, not managing left-wing economic policy. In order to preserve jobs, we are constantly making decisions and supporting employers and workers with all possible means. In the current energy crisis, for example, the government has launched several programmes to preserve jobs. Energy-intensive SMEs are subject to energy support programmes involving small and medium-sized manufacturing companies most exposed to the effects of the energy price explosion. The State can take half the increase in electricity and gas costs from companies in October, November and December. In addition, the government has launched a factory rescue programme which provides non-refundable support to large companies for energy efficiency and energy-generating investments. Another important method of creating new jobs and preserving jobs is tax reduction, as Fidesz-KDNP is the government of tax reductions. Since 2010, we have reduced taxes eighty times. It is perhaps just today that Hungary is among the top ten rankings of the OECD countries in the competitiveness ranking in terms of tax reductions in recent years, since tax reductions since 2010 have reduced the tax burden by 4-5 percent of GDP. We remember that you have often proposed tax increases in recent years, either in the fiscal law or in the tax laws. In your time, the social contribution tax was 27 percent, which is 13 percent at the moment. By comparison, the employer tax burden on wages in your tax system was hit by five types of taxes, which totaled 33.5 percent, which is now 13 percent. Perhaps even trade unions and Congressman Kordas can acknowledge the result and its beneficial effect. Personal income tax today is equal to 15 percent, while 36 percent of you have the highest key, and 18 percent have been the lowest key. [[László Kordás: But our minimum wage was tax-free!]] [[17.50]] Congressman Kordas mentioned the minimum wage in his speech, and then, shouting out, you raised the minimum wage by HUF 23 500, and the minimum wage was HUF 75,000 in 2010. The minimum wage is now 200,000 forints, honourable Member. 23 500 forints is what in eight years... You were a secretary of state, you know, raised by HUF 23,500 in eight years, not from year to year. During our period, there has been a year when the minimum wage has risen more than that in a year, and you have been able to achieve this performance in eight years, and it is sad. It also shows who workers can count on. In addition, workers under the age of 25 and mothers with four children can enjoy full exemption. The current bill contains a number of amendments which have a positive impact on job seekers and employment. Employees benefit from the fact that the employment relationship in the context of a vocational training contract concluded in dual vocational training becomes eligible as a qualifying period for the establishment of a job-seeking allowance, which has not been the case before. The bill also provides for the granting of paternity leave if the civil servant has a child born or adopted between 2 August and 31 December 2022. From the point of view of entitlement to leave, parental leave, carers' working time allowances and paternity leave are periods of work. In the event of the birth of a child, the father must be granted paternity leave for 10 working days. Mr Secretary of State has also spoken about the EU directive and my fellow Member, and paternity leave ensures that the father is entitled to paternity leave for a period of 10 working days at the latest until the end of the second month following the date of birth and, in the case of adoption, by the end of the second month following the final adoption decision. Unfortunately, there was no such institution when I had children, unfortunately there was not 10 days of father's leave, unfortunately there were no such opportunities. Although my children were born in the post-2010 period, we were entitled to much more than before 2010, where the child was reduced to two years instead of three, this was raised back, so we can talk here... [[László Kordas intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] I have also seen the four months of maternity leave in the trade union announcement, and we have 36 months of maternity leave, so not four, not two, that is not what the debate is about, but 36 months. That was two years in your time. There are different entitlements here: for half a year, Mr President, you may know how much the pipe is and how much it has been raised, you know the amount of how we help it, it is six months, and even a month before the child is born, you can use the six-month period, and then the state will provide care. In fact, my honourable fellow Member, the child extra opens up the opportunity to work and does not lose the child benefits to the mother or father, depending on who takes it, because in your time, honourable Member, when someone went back to work before the child expires, he lost his entitlement to the child benefits. I sought your dissociative statements against the decisions made at that time, but I could not find that you supported these decisions, and even involved in their preparation that your government took them away from the mothers, took away from the parents who raised the child, when they started work, a significant part of the benefits after the child. The fact is, my honourable fellow Member, that we must help parents, fathers and mothers who have children, because I think that is obviously the way I can talk about fathers at a time like this. There are more and more places where fathers leave for a certain period of time, and it is very important that fathers take part in raising children whenever they can, and whenever possible, because it is not exclusively a mother's task. It is very important to have a shared responsibility, a shared responsibility in raising a child, in life, in all tasks, from bathing to changing diapers, and we absolutely support it. The employee is entitled to 44 working days of parental leave until the age of three, and I have talked about how we have extended the various benefits for children in recent years. After all, if we look at the family-friendly turn of 2010, we have now reached the point of spending 6.2 percent of GDP on family support. While your last budget did not reach HUF 1000 billion in support to families, it is now well over HUF 3000 billion that we spend on families every year, honourable Member, for example through the family tax system, because the family tax relief is what the right holders use 97-98 percent. Family tax relief reaches the widest possible circle, thereby reducing their tax paid, leaving more money for families raising children. I partly understand your criticism, but this is a thin and difficult balance: support for families and the preservation of employment in a work-based society. Both are important, these are the two pillars of our governance, we support families, and we also support employment. Congressman Kordas has suggested that there have been several accidents at work. Congressman, a million more people are working! So according to the law of big numbers, more jobs and more workers... unfortunately, and I regret every single accident at work, and everything has to be done to prevent an accident at work obviously. I could give you a counterstat, a million less people worked in your time, so that was twice the number of crimes committed, honourable Member. The number of registered crimes was over 400,000 a year, around 420 thousand, if memory serves, now it's under 190,000. So there are 420 thousand registered crimes, now there are 190,000 registered crimes. You should know better, but I think there's a strong link between getting into work and reducing crime. [[László Kordas intervenes.]] I said, more jobs, more workers, a million more workers, honourable Member. There are more car accidents than 1920 this year, because there are more cars, honourable Member, than a hundred years ago, that is how it works in the world. However, our job is to do everything we can to ensure that there are as few accidents at work as possible, so that everyone adheres to the OSH rules, that companies also comply with the OSH rules, that workers also comply with the OSH rules. It is a common goal and a framework should be established where everyone, all actors, complies with these OSH rules. I'm sorry you're not taking this into account. Since 2010, there has been an ever-increasing and extremely wide, Europe's most generous and broad family support system in Hungary, as I said that the amounts spent on family support exceeded 6 percent of GDP. This is twice the EU average, my fellow Members. With this, we are not only the Union, but also the leaders of the whole world. The amount spent on childbearing is constantly increased, in our adopted budget it is already more than HUF 3300 billion. To sum up, the bill includes legislative harmonisation, technical and clarification provisions, as well as the recasting and transposition of EU directives. We do our duty in the transposition of EU directives and the KDNP fraction will therefore support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-10-136	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Ms Zita Gurmai. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2022-11-10-137	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Dear fellow Members, The proposal for a salad law before us amends 37 laws, 14 of which will be translated into the rules on paternity leave, parental leave, care leave and flexible working conditions, according to EU law. Although the government seems to have consulted the social partners before submitting the proposal, only 30 hours have been given to comment on the proposed amendments. This is nothing more than a government charade of cooperation. In fact, this form of negotiation is a mere collusion. In addition to the transposition of the EU directives, the bill includes amendments which are not closely linked to mandatory harmonisation of legislation. [[18.00]] These include, for example, amendments to the laws on the promotion of employment and the provision of the unemployed or the laws on cooperatives. Moreover, the Employment Act has already been opened by the government in other legislative proposals before Parliament. For example, T/1623. Legislative proposal No 2 of 18 October 2022 on the amendment of certain laws relating to higher education, vocational training and adult education. The government then justified this by the aim of creating a rapid capacity to intervene in addressing labour market challenges caused by the current war situation. The bill before us now was submitted by the government on 2 November 2022, i.e. only 15 days between the two amendments, i.e. 15 days, and both amendments were tabled by the Minister for Employment Policy. I cannot stress enough the extent to which the amendment of legislation in the various salad laws undermines Hungary's legal certainty and creates significant difficulties for the law-makers. Moreover, the bill contains elements in which even a microscope cannot detect any government good intentions. For example, an amendment to the EU directive on paternity leave and parental leave, which was settled three years ago by the government, but which failed to comply with the final deadline of 2 August 2022. The government submitted the relevant amendment of the law only in November of this year. Ladies and gentlemen, You brag about how family-friendly this government is, but that is not true. It is not true, because the Fidesz government, by not taking over the EU's father's directives for three years, has taken five days from every baby born for three years, and I confirm what Congressman Nacsa said, that it is very important that the child spends as much time as possible with his father when he is born. You're supposed to want more children to be born, but for three years, you've done nothing to create favourable conditions. What a deceitful, lying attitude that is! In addition, the Fidesz government still wishes to provide Hungarian families with as little parental leave as possible under the EU directive, five extra five days per year. For the first five days, 100% of the bill's work is required, but for the next five days, you would only give 40 percent of the wages to the fathers. For the duration of parental leave, only 10 percent of the work would be charged by subtracting the amount of childcare and childcare. I would like to mention here that the institution of father freedom was introduced by the Medgyessy government just 20 years ago. That was five days and 100 percent. The Fidesz government has just increased this by five extra days because it is now an EU obligation. So much for how important families are to you. But let's continue to see how Fidesz catches up with the Hungarian families! The elevated father's day of leave, father's leave, can only be taken in two parts. There's never been a rule like that before. The practice was to take a day off when the child was born, immediately, immediately at birth, and then the other four days when the baby was given home from the hospital, because as long as the mother and child are in the hospital, why should the father be at home? According to the EU Directive, the father should be given the opportunity to take parental leave up to one day before the date of birth. This is not included in the Hungarian legislation. Why? By the way, I note in silence that by taking two doses, the first 100 percent and the second 40 percent will not take these five days, at least there is a good chance that this will happen. According to the EU proposal, four months of extra leave until the child is 8 years old [[Noise in the pro-government lines. The president's ringing the bell.]] It should be given, whereas the Fidesz government would give a total of 44 days until the child is 3 years old. That's how much Fidesz loves Hungarian families. In addition, the mother can't take these 44 days either, because in Hungary the period of child care is already three years. It would not be so if this freedom were until the child was 4 years old, but you were clearly careful that neither the father nor the mother could have more freedom with their child, although this can be changed. To this end, I initiated an amendment to provide the Government with a 100 per cent salary and an absence fee for the period of paternity leave, in place of 40 per cent, for the additional five days that have just been introduced. The members of the Committee on Enterprise Development received a joint letter from the SZEF and MASSZ to support this motion. I'm hopeful... [[Interjection from the pro-government ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] I am confident that they will do so, there is a chance that they will help this amendment. Otherwise, this coincides with the interests of Hungarian families, the demands of trade unions, and would even be family-friendly, contrary to your attitude. In addition, the MSZP fully agrees with the criticism of the Hungarian Trade Union Association, according to which, among other things, paternity leave should be at least 15 working days, for twins 20 and some should be available in the days before birth. Let parental leave be four months in total, pay a fair price for the duration of parental leave and care leave. At the same time, we cannot go without saying that there are a number of oddities in the bill, for example regarding the amendment of the Public Education Act, and that the obligation of the Member States to provide training is not covered by the obligation to provide information on compulsory teacher further education. This also means that compulsory training will be cancelled or, where required by the employer, the employee will have to pay the full cost of the training. According to previous practice, this cost was taken over in full or by agreement by the employer in a larger part. This was realistic, as mandatory further training is required by law. I'm asking you why these negative changes, why you deliberately want to screw with families, fathers, educators. I'm looking forward to your answer. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2022-11-10-138	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The Momentum Group indicated that their group's opinion was presented by two of their rapporteurs. I give the floor to Congressman András Fekete-Győr first. Here you go.
u2022-11-10-139	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, Dear Secretary of State, I have been a Member of Parliament for a few months on behalf of the new political generation, and I believe or believe that we have common themes and common affairs in which we can put aside our political views. So you're Fidesz MEPs, I'm a momentary congressman, but if I look at you, I assume or see that many of you are fathers here. I am also a father, and I came to this debate by leaving my party-political glasses at home, and with the aim of coming to this debate with my fellow Member Éva Sebők to try to make even better the Hungarian legislation transposing an otherwise good European directive. So this is our goal, and in the coming weeks, until the vote is over here in Parliament, I will strive to understand each other's points of view and to have a common understanding. A little more personal or spiritual: I think there is no greater love than when our child is born. On behalf of all of us, I may say that the only creature for whom we would sacrifice our lives without thinking is our child. Evil Brussels bureaucrats want Hungarian fathers to spend more time with their children. I think it's a good goal and a good direction. I became a father not so long ago, and I was about to face how difficult and stressful the first weeks and the first period could be. Obviously, this is a period that is the happiest time of both the father and mother, but it is also the most trying time for parents at the same time. And when we argue about five days or ten days, I think all of us who have been in this situation know that it is very little, five days and ten days too, when we talk about the first happy period. [[18.10]] Our problem with your proposal is its narrowness. It occurred to me that after the first five days, they would give us 100% wage support, but after the second five days, only 40 percent. I am very afraid that this will not encourage Hungarian fathers to stay at home with their families and with their mother and children for the second five days. I'm sure there will be people who will stay at home, who can afford it, but there will be many who won't. If we accept this as a starting point or conclusion, then we also have to accept that the Hungarian Government's proposal does not achieve the objective set out in the EU directive, namely to provide a harmonious family unit for Hungarian families. That is why we have a proposal that we think is better than that. I'm looking at Mr. Secretary, so you can consider this. We say that there should be 10+10 days of father's leave. In the first 10 days, pay 100 percent to the fathers, and in the second 10 days give them 50 percent wage support. We have calculated how much this would cost the Hungarian state register, and it would cost about HUF 7-7.5 billion. I don't think that's much money. Obviously, many examples could be set, obviously you are aware of the size of the Hungarian budget, and you also know that this would not be a pin-sized or even a large expense, because, for example, in the summer, the Hungarian government gave 10 billion HUF to the Hungarian Football Association, or over ten billion dollars were spent on government information campaigns. Compared to this, we are talking about less than that when we talk about family unity and the provision of harmony. So 10 + 10 days and 100 per cent plus 50 per cent, that's our constructive proposal. What are the aspects behind this, which you fellow Members know, why do we need to give fathers the opportunity to stay home for at least a month? There are many mothers who are helped to bring their child into the world by cesarean section. There are difficult wounds that obviously take time to help the father with the mother. Then there's postpartum depression, which affects many people, according to research, it occurs at 50-80 percent, but it usually spontaneously wears off after a week or two, obviously in the majority, but for those who don't, it can be a problem. Then there are more children in a family, and a newborn baby arrives, obviously this is an extra burden for the parents, so it's good that the father can be there not only for 10 days, but, say, 20 days, so he can be there for a month. We can talk about the first shot they give babies after four weeks. This can also be a time at which you can draw that line, not to mention the child's bed stage. Doctors say that the mother needs 4-6 weeks of regeneration after childbirth, and here I am looking at Congresswoman Tünde Szabó. So, it takes four to six weeks for the mother to get fit again, and until then, she needs help. Grandparents can't always help you with that. The reality seems to be that mothers are not problem-free birth machines, fathers are not money-seeking robots who look forward to going back to the labour market, and newborns are not like peaceful babies smiling back on government posters on stock photos. The reality is much more complex than that, so this is one of our proposals for father's freedom to be more family-friendly, if you will. There's one more, and this is the father's month. In terms of father months, we are very short on the 10% wage support that your proposal contains after two months. I think very few would use that. Therefore, it is our recommendation that fathers be given 2+1 months. They can take the two months in parallel with the mother and spend it at home in the unity and peace of the family. After that, the state would pay 70 percent as proposed, and an extra month would be due to the father, which only one parent can take. Of course, he still deserves 70 percent. When the mother goes back to the labour market, this can be a serious help; nursery colds, diseases and other things, but the father can help you in. So our starting point is a peaceful, harmonious family model, that's what we believe. Our proposal would be an important step forward in this direction. I very much hope that you will accept this, and in the final vote to be held in two weeks' time, or I do not know when exactly, we can vote for what the new political generation is bringing into this debate. Thank you very much.
u2022-11-10-140	Thank you very much, Congressman. The keynote speech of the Momentum Group will be continued by Mrs Éva Sebők. Here you go.
u2022-11-10-141	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Dear Secretary of State, My fellow government politicians, I don't know why you don't like fathers, but you don't like them, that's for sure. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Are you sure?]] No other conclusions can be drawn from this proposal. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Definitely!]] The minimum levels set by the Directive could not be included in the proposal either. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's not true!]] Let us first talk about the father's months, and what was named "the maternity leave"! This is going to be a new thing for Hungary, but it is not for us now, because we put an idea that was much better adapted to the spirit of the directive not long after our formation, years ago. We called it fatherhood or father months. The essence of this is that, after the birth or adoption of the child, both parents can spend meaningful time with their child at an early stage. There is advice that is inherited in every house from mother to daughter, at least in every house I know, and this is that no matter how many children you have, prepare to give birth to yourself, any holy oath or great promise will be given to him. Where this advice is not given, the girls could watch this phenomenon growing up live. You know, our age group is increasingly rejecting the life in which this counsel applies, and in the following ages, it will become more and more true. We want to live in families where mother has the right not to be alone with the daily burden of having children, just as father has the right not to miss out on the everyday beauty of having children. To achieve this, the institution of seriously acceptable father months is an extremely important instrument, which has many other advantages. The institution of real, serious father months is good for virtually everyone, and I'm going to prove it now. Let's look at the quality of the relationship between parents first. There are many places where father months have been introduced, and we don't fly blind when we talk about it. In Iceland, the number of divorces in Quebec, Canada, was 8.9 percentage points lower in the marriages where the father used the father months. In fact, the use of father months has slightly, but has increased, the intention to marry in families where parents were not married at the time of the child's arrival. In almost all marriages where father months were used, the happiness index of married couples was measurablely higher on the basis of surveys. The proportion of the reasons or consequences of this, the fact that more and better sex has been reported in these marriages, I leave it up to you, in any case, to account for the father months. Where it was introduced, it was also good for women to have father months. Today, everything in Hungary is against the fact that fathers can really participate actively in the everyday life of their children; besides the construction of the labour market, work culture and cultural pressure, state incentives. This leads to the fact that, at present, the labour market in the country places only women at risk of losing their job as a result of having children. This, by definition, reduces the labour market value of women, essentially devalued. It shouldn't be like that, having a baby shouldn't be a bogeyman. For this to happen, all it takes is for fathers to be equally involved in the risk of leaving the labour market, and then it would normalize on the labour market that an employee falls out of work for a short period of time because he had a child. In other ways, women would benefit from a serious introduction of father months. More and more young couples are becoming families in the developed world, knowingly deciding to share unpaid household activities equally among the members of the couple. However, this conscious planning, conscious life after the arrival of the first child will fall apart and will never return, unless the father months have been enforced. [[18.20]] There is also a third consequence that shows that it is important for women to introduce serious father months, because in families where meaningful father months have been used, the chances and severity of postpartum depression are reduced, and in fewer cases it is necessary for mothers to use anti-anxiety medicines. But women are not only better off with the introduction of seriously acceptable father months, thanks to heaven, more and more men have the inner need to spend a few months with the youngest member of the family. Slowly, we leave the world behind when it was the general view that a man had a real purpose and opportunity to be with his child as soon as possible when he could play soccer with him. Young men are increasingly aware that early, intensively spent months together can create a deeper and more intense bond between father and child, and this bond will be rock solid, whether mother and father continue as a couple for life or if their relationship is less fortunate. In the further part of the debate, I will make further arguments, but I would like to conclude by saying something very important. How we will implement these guidelines in the Hungarian system, the proposal, the one we are discussing now, was written by moustache uncles, who have been over the foundation of the family for 40-50 years; who imagine the ideal family as it was 300 years ago, only at the aristocracy, where father met his children a few times a year, and the governess had the children practiced for weeks for the meeting, where the fathers only saw their children in a freshly ironed, hardened, spotless, clean festive dress. You can see on the proposal that it was written by such uncles, and it's visible. We in the Momentum put our program on the table years ago, which really is in the interest of Hungarian families. We cannot and want to present this in its original form now, because it would be over-expanding, but we have tabled an excerpted amendment on this basis. The elements of this have already been described in part by my fellow Member, András Fekete-Győr. This package really helps to create stable and happy families. This is a package that really serves the interests of children. I'm asking you to support me in the future. In the course of the debate, we will discuss it. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Momentum.]]
u2022-11-10-142	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Ander Balázs. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-11-10-143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Well, the bill before us will be voted by the Jobbik faction, so I would like to put it forward. Even if the strengthening of workers' rights is rather slim, even if the strengthening of OSH could be much more pronounced, and even if the reconciliation of work and family could also be more prominent in this bill, because I must state that you are the EU directives, we must say, adopt and apply them in a very minimal way in such positive areas. Therefore, the criticism and the situation that we are in and why we should pay much more attention to this area will be quite powerful. Perhaps even my fellow Member Nacsa will allow us so many criticisms from the opposition. It is probably the apostle of that sociopathic neoliberal dogma that we are talking about László Parragh, a good friend of Viktor Orbán, when he read this bill, he grinded his teeth, because it is not the taste of his mouth that corresponds to the change package that appears here. You've been thinking about a completely different model of competitiveness, and you're still thinking, and he's telling you that there is someone who dares to say that our competitiveness is still based on cheap wages in Hungary, and you can add that, along this philosophy, not only cheap wages are competitiveness here in Hungary, but also employee vulnerability. And if we compare what Viktor Orbán said at an Arab-Hungarian investor conference in Riyadh in 2014, namely how low the wages of Hungarian workers are compared to their quality and how flexible the labour code is, then, please respond from the pro-government benches, if appropriate, to how this can be reconciled with the 13th of 1891. Pope Leo's Rerum novarum, in which it was said that it was ugly and inhumane to use our fellow man as a means of profit. Indeed, there is no way to reconcile it, and the result was in Hungary. What is the result of this? For example, the exodus to the West that drove a million of our countrymen out of Hungary, even if Prime Minister said earlier that those who dare to speak of it were just wailing; then Lajos Kósa had a comment in this regard that it was unthinkable that the terrible working conditions and wage conditions drove people away from this; then you also had a representative of the local government who said that the Hungarians who were tumbling out were actually just partying and living on pot cookies. Well, reality doesn't look like this. The reality seems that in many cases the Hungarian worker was actually considered to be a kind of disposable biorobot, even now. And it is possible to talk about the fact that this opposition Member here does not know what it is about, because there is a shortage of workers, and the conditions are now largely dictated by the workers. Then I would like to say that there are counties in Hungary that are so multiplely disadvantaged, and I would add that this may not be the result of your 12 years of work, because before that there were eight years and before that there were several very serious, very hard decades, for example in Somogy County, there are almost 11 job seekers for one vacant job. And if we put these numbers next to each other, then it becomes clear how vulnerable Hungarian workers are in such areas, because not only is the country made up of Budapest, but there are also some prosperous regions of Western Hungary, but there are also areas where the Hungarian worker can really experience what Latin America is in the middle of Europe. The brutal reduction of national human capital has taken place in Hungary in recent years. You've declared a fight against the offshore knights, and then you've seen them compete with the offshore states as well. And there was also a negative impact on the situation of the workers. Yet, in opposition, you have stood by the fact that this is not a good paradigm, and then, when you came to the government, you started to blow this neoliberal song with steam, so that, unfortunately, what is said is that the model of competitiveness in Hungary is nothing more than low wages, wage cuts, and then build everything on foreign capital. The situation of Hungarian workers then developed accordingly. The fact that the labour market has become so to speak flexible is a massive mask, backed by many human tragedies and the misery of families. When workers' rights were dismantled or labour checks were loosened, practically eliminated in Hungary, this was the result, and these unblessed conditions of labour law are indeed used as a favourite word for neoliberal ears, its deregulation. What did they do after 2010? Their first step was that the fundamentals of protection of interests, the right to strike, were completely destroyed, virtually destroyed, the possibility of legal cessation of work was crushed, and then Hungary became a multinational colony and a province of their own oligarchs. Trade union coverage is a very interesting number, let's say, from 20 percent around 2000 it has now fallen below 9 percent in Hungary. Perhaps it is not a coincidence, once again, that we may encounter such unblessed conditions, I would add, when, according to OECD surveys, one of the toughest working nations in Hungary, in an annual sense, is about 1900 hours of average work performance, compared to 1400 hours in Germany. [[18.30]] Fellow Members! Congressmen, ladies! This reality, this Hungarian obsession, and the fact that, let's say, an employee in his early thirties receives 11 days less days off in Hungary than, let's say, his Finnish fellow worker. Now, this is the reality, from which we start, and then let's look at what kind of condition these fading, let's say, amendments and repairs find, let's say, the labour issue in Hungary. By the way, I've actively collected the points to support. Allow me not to praise this bill to the death, but I have found some in it which tells us that yes, it must be accepted, even if it is a fading step forward. Speaking of accidents at work, my fellow Member Nacsa has actually tromped this down: employment has increased. My colleague, in 2012, there were 17,000 reported accidents at work, and then this increased by 41 percent by 2017. However, the number of employees in Hungary did not increase by 41 percent! The number of accidents at work increased to 24,000 by 2019, and then Covid came, then there was a setback, but we find that in 2021 this is again number 21 600. So compared to the 2012 base year, this is a 27 percent increase, and in 2022's first half year, compared to the first half of 2021, there was, unfortunately, a 3.5 percent increase in accidents at work in Hungary. This can all cover family tragedy, lost mothers, fathers, children. And the Hungarian state set a bad example. I've had a written statement before, and they answered it. How the Hungarian State sets a bad example? In 170 companies, the Hungarian state owns a majority through MNV Zrt., and even if you look at the Public Road Manager, the number of fatal accidents doubled during the period under consideration. So, if you'd paid a little more attention to this area, the field of occupational safety, we wouldn't have been able to meet these numbers. Although it is now as if it has been turned on, and in the first six months of this year, an extra thousand labour inspections have been carried out compared to the first six months of last year, with a total number of 4500, but the number of horrific conditions is also a good indication that 3250 of the 4500 cases investigated had been encountered with some kind of irregularity. If you look at workers, this mass has so far covered 142 thousand workers in the first half of the year, you will find that half of them, 50 percent of them, have had problems. If we multiply this whole quantity by the number of workers, and if we divide it by that number, it should be said that it would take 16 years for the labour inspectors to reach everywhere. So, as long as the control in Hungary is so loose, it is possible to bring such legislative proposals to this House, which I would like to emphasise once again, that we will accept, but we should also be more effective on the part of the state, so that we can prevent these tragedies, these accidents. Indeed, in these man-bearing jobs, in many cases, if a person gets sick or has an accident, he can find himself very easily in an existential slaughterhouse, where there may be no return, and if it is so narrowly established, let us say, a caregiver's leave, which may be a small step forward compared to the previous one, but I still do not know how to put it, with a kind of greediness or I do not know how to say it, with opposition greed we can only say that it is little, fellow Members. In the case of a nation in such a state of health, with such horrifying labour statistics, this is certainly not enough. Don't believe me, by the way, but let's say János Selye or Mary Kopp, whom I respect very much, that, where appropriate, I am referring not only to physical employment but also to the devastating effect of the atmosphere there. And if we find that there is only a small step forward in a bill, then we can support these proposals, because there are the horrifying numbers that, for example, three fifths of Hungarian men are not worth the retirement age, or if they reach the pension, then I also have to look at the number of years spent in health. We can add the incredibly bad health statistics that say that 10 percent of Hungarian citizens over the age of 60 have to live their lives with some kind of disability, 40 percent are suffering from chronic illness. And when we see here that there is five days of care leave, and a penny of it will not come to pass, then, fellow Members, you will see that a little bit of the Hungarian reality confronts you, that it will be a little short to make substantial progress here. In the context of positive family changes, it should be said that there is a huge correlation between demography and work and reconciliation of the family. If we are talking about demography, we should also say that György Aczél was the one in Hungary, who said that if someone is talking about the population problem, it is a bad thing because it leads to nationalism. We, in the Jobbik Group, dare to say that the most important area of national strategy would be the restoration of demographic balance in Hungary, because it is the most secure investment in the future of society. If we add that Hungary became the first country in 1962 to produce the horrifying number on the ground that the least children were born here in proportion to the population, if we add that in just four years the Hungarians were able to reproduce themselves here, the truncated Hungary had these four years in 1974-75-76-77, then we have to see that there is a need for further progress, because since 1980 there has been a numerically one million fewer Hungarians. And if there will be such positive progress, I add, little, small steps, then we must also say that we can see, yes, the globalist neoliberal social and economic philosophy is firing heavy artillery on the family as it is, destroying it as much as possible. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, that, as prisoners of some kind of neoliberal dogma, you do not do them the favor of implementing these EU directives in such a minimalistic way, be more generous. It was said here first, by the way, quite rightly that we are talking about a few billion forints, say, in relation to paternity leave. I do not think that the Hungarian budget, whatever the situation, should not allow itself to make substantial progress here. Thank you very much for your attention. I will continue from here, by the way.
u2022-11-10-144	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Group of our country is Mr President Novák. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-11-10-145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The 180-page amendment of the Employment Act, covering 37 laws, does not cure abuses of the Covid dictatorship, but, unfortunately, it maintains our country's driving position within the EU in the field of father's leave, despite false government communication. Let us not be surprised if the decline in the population will increase rather than the need to have children. With regard to father days and day offs for parents and carers, it is clear that the government has nominally set a target of compliance with EU directives, but in a way which is specific to itself and not favourable to workers. In addition to the existing 5 days of father leave, only 40 percent of the absence fee is due to the employee for a further 5 days. This rule therefore goes entirely against the government's policy and communication catches regarding the protection of families. It does not provide significant assistance to rightholders. This 40 percent is closer to unpaid leave than real freedom. Unfortunately, in the European Union, as in so many other areas, Hungary is also at the end of the line with regard to basic father leave. On the basis of the European Parliament's data, Spain currently provides the longest paternity leave, 16 weeks on full pay; Hungary has 5 days compared to this. On the list, Finland and the Netherlands follow them 11 and 5 weeks after them, then Austria, Estonia, France, Lithuania, Slovenia and Portugal give a month's leave with 80-100 percent pay during this period. [[18.40]] To this end, we think that Hungary will still be only 5+5 days in the future, and the second five days can be regarded as unpaid leave. In addition, Bulgaria, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Ireland, Belgium, Luxembourg, Poland and Italy have already completed ten days of father's leave. Hungary and Romania are five working days at the end of the list. However, as Zsolt Spéder, head of the Research Institute for Population Studies at the KSH, said, he repeatedly drew attention to him, perhaps as his most important warning, that it would be necessary to involve fathers in raising children in order to achieve a demographic change, to halt population loss. We also have a responsibility to the XXI. In the century, we can make it trendy, fashionable, norm, and we can show that it is the most manly thing to be a father. Many people think that being a father means wrestling together, playing soccer, maybe going on an outburst tour with their children, but I also proudly undertake to diapers more than 5,000 times. [[Nacsa Lawrence: I didn't count!]] Leaving the dirty work to the women, leaving it to the mothers alone, I don't think it's very chivalrous. And when it is shown that the number of children desired is about three according to polls, surveys, research among young people, then why is it that only a fraction, half or most of this is not born, especially if the population explosion of Gypsy is taken off, then practically as a generation, Hungarians are halved, because the indicator is actually around 1. Then we have to face the fact that the reason for this is probably because young ladies say that they want two or three children, but somehow they seem to be thanking the first child, but they don't want any more of this. Well, that is why fathers should be more involved in childbearing and child rearing, for example, and that is why the state should set a good example of fathering freedom, right from the beginning, because these five days or 5+5 days of unpaid leave are not every year, but only at birth, so let's be careful about the expression "freedom" at all. But if it is freedom: during the Covid madness, they have made it particularly difficult for parents to live, which is why not only, let us say, compensation should be given to those who have been wrongly laid off, especially those who have been wrongly laid off, but parents should be given a leave of absence, because, due to break-off institutions and home education, parents with small children had to do a lot of extra work and, unfortunately, they may still have to, if this Covid policy remains so, and the freedoms are mostly exhausted due to closure. Therefore, I think that the current two days per year per child should be significantly extended to institutional closure, according to our country. Although it is not for God's sake that the government should do so again, it should also be by compensating employers for the public budget, so it should not be charged to employers, of course, if they are already performing public or public tasks, for example, by taking on the tasks of public education institutions, parents with small children. Our previous proposal for a resolution has, by the way, proposed as a budgetary resource for Roma integration as billions poured into bottomless wells and stolen. After all, the working gypsies would be given extra leave. Parents are disadvantaged against other workers at the time of covidos closures, and their constitutional rights to freedom are also impaired, as they cannot freely decide on the date of their annual paid leave or on how to spend their leave. They need to carry out virtually a public task, rather than an institution, on the grounds of their freedom during covidos closures. On the other hand, the bill rightly obliges employers to fulfil the obligation to provide information more than previously in order to guarantee workers' rights. So let me give you a little credit for what you can do in this bill. The content of the prospectus will be much more detailed than so far, and the deadline for the delivery will also be reduced from 15 days to seven days so far, and, in the event of an amendment to the contract of employment, the obligation to deliver without delay will therefore undoubtedly be appreciated. The amendment to the law is also welcome in terms of the Government's desire to increase workers' OSH rights and improve their health conditions. In this respect, therefore, the proposal should be supported. However, the proposed amendments include proposals that are difficult to interpret to improve the situation of workers. For example, Article 39 According to §, the OSH authority is entitled to obtain the data of the recordings recorded by the safety equipment at the inspection site and the recordings of entry and exit into the field of work, and to make copies thereof. In my view, this provision is, to put it mildly, less in the interests of workers and in the protection of their rights than in the excessive entry of the state into the everyday life; rather, it is similar to the realization of a Big Brother. Most of the amendments to pre-retirement job search aid and other state social aid are needed because the legislative environment is already completely opaque. It is no wonder that the laws must be amended all the time, because as unstoppable legislation is in progress, it is simply impossible to follow any changes without logic in some places. Finally, exchange-rate compensation for foreign representation workers appears in this very hidden place in the salad law as a barely noticeable provision, but there are very important conclusions to be drawn from it. After all, it is a question that the government will quasi-accept with this measure that, with the weakening of the forint in the last period, it is unable to do much in the long term, and its economic policy has practically failed. As further rules on exchange rate compensation will be set out in the Ministerial Regulation, it is a measure which suggests that the government is starting to settle in a long-term way against rising euro and dollar prices. I'm asking you not to do this. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-11-10-146	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. I give the floor from the Jobbik Group to Mr Ander Balázs. Here you go.
u2022-11-10-147	Ladies and gentlemen, We live in a world where it is true that an overseas Jewish-Conservative social scientist finds that there is no satire that can compete with progressive cretinism. And that is why we ask from here, from Jobbik's ranks, that such laws should not be applied in a minimalist manner. It is necessary to strengthen the institution of the family, to restore the social fabric system, fellow Members. It was said that in Spain, 16 weeks and a hundred percent state-funded period of father's leave. We're asking you not to be so small-handed. Not 10 days in Hungary, and not financed in such a stingy way. An amendment will be tabled in this connection. Indeed, we would find it useful to increase significantly, and we see budgetary resources for this, by the way. Involvement of fathers would be inherently important to enable society to strengthen so that families can regain their old light. It may be enough to suggest that, say, Richard Rohr, the Franciscan monk in America, who cares a lot about families, what he said when he said that fatherlessness is doing incredible destruction in the world; and if we put it on the side of, say, Zimbardo's work "There is no way out," where he describes how terrible social destruction is caused by the growing up of whole generations without a father. Or I'd just like to mention the conservative black American Thomas Sowell, who also shows how harmful it is when families fall apart when there's no father figure. And that father figure may not be like XVIII-XIX. It must be interpreted in a patriotic way of the century, but in such a modern way, there is no father with the mother or even the unborn child. I ask you, fellow Members, to think about this and allow those who want to experience it [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] I would like to experience this joy of the first period of fatherhood in its entirety, to take advantage of this opportunity. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[18.50]]
u2022-11-10-148	Thank you very much, Congressman. However, I would like to ask the congressman with all due respect that I am not sure I should say this? to indicate nationality or race in the announcement of a general American item. [[Ander Balázs: They're proud to do it! They're not ashamed!]] No, it's not that. It's not in a quote that's the defining part. Thank you very much. Congressman Nacha Lőrinc from KDNP called for two minutes.
u2022-11-10-149	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would only respond to Mr President Novak for the time being that I too had a lot of diapers, I didn't suffer, I didn't count them, so that I don't have any results in this respect, but I agree with you that your father should be involved in raising children. I do not agree with the cynical picture that Congresswoman Éva Sebők here painted of ironed shirts and football children, or that fathers should meet their children only at banquets; this is not how the world works in Hungary or elsewhere, before and after this law. At the same time, I am pleased that the number of marriages is increasing elsewhere and the number of divorces is falling. Congresswoman, in Hungary, the number of marriages has doubled in the last ten years and the number of divorces has decreased by 20 percent. This is an important achievement that I think we need to continue to help. This was the result of the government's family policy. This is happening not only in Canada, but also in Hungary, Congresswoman, that the number of marriages is increasing and the number of divorces is falling. I would say to Mr Ander that he has never heard us say that we have achieved the demographic or demographic policy goals that we have set ourselves, never, ever. [[Ander Balázs: We won't!]] and we agree that there is still a lot to be done. The Prime Minister also said that further measures were needed, and the Prime Minister said that demography and population policy are a priority area of national strategy, which is why we increased the budget for families every year. You have been a Member here for a long time, every year you have seen that this amount has increased, and we have constantly submitted family-friendly proposals. And for the mathematical calculation of the number of accidents at work, you said 21 percent, right? [[Ander Balázs: 41!]] [[Ander Balázs: 41!]] increase compared to basis points (Ander Balázs: 41!) The number of employees increased by 25 percent, by 21 percent. So that's why I told you this. One is a lot, let's beat them all, and I think we can agree with that, but I just said that if there are more cars on the roads, there will be more car accidents, unfortunately. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Let's beat them all. Thank you very much.
u2022-11-10-150	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, We will continue the debate. Member Zoltán Komáromi of the DK Group has applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-11-10-151	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, This T/1845 bill doesn't show much evidence of medical professional consideration, and I don't think that's a coincidence. The Ministry of Technology and Industry, which operates the OSH authority in Hungary, prepared the material for the amendment of the OSH Act, the authority which has two heads in the Ministry and one health care professional in the twenty government offices. This is a lack of professional competence, and it can be seen in the healthcare section of the proposal. It is particularly problematic that a health legislation, i.e. health-related legislation, is not produced by health professionals from the Ministry of Health, nor has it been presumed to have been seen, nor have the professional chambers seen, nor have it been the work hygiene and occupational health body. This also shows that the preparation of occupational health legislation is in the wrong hands, since it is responsible for a ministry which has neither an appropriate expert nor enough information on the field, on everyday tasks. It is of the utmost importance that the Minister for Health should be responsible for the codification and management of occupational health tasks in the other areas of health, and then we would not be faced with such drafts. In detail. I think it is a conceptual mistake that the draft is currently handing over a specialist competence to professionals with lower qualifications. A specialist in occupational medicine will study the profession in four years of vocational training after six years of university, so he will study for ten years and then be required to undergo a five-year course. On the other hand, public health inspectors receive four years of university training, and the part of this is occupational health and risk assessment practice. It's like a fresh doctor from college could do an eye or brain surgery, because he learned about it in college. But if someone had seen it for the last 30 years, they taught it 30 years ago, they didn't have to be on this subject because they didn't have to, they shouldn't be involved. But if it is up to the employer to choose such a solution or that he has the right confidence, then this situation can indeed be created. Nor can it be understood that, on the basis of the submission, a quote comes here with the approval of the doctor of the basic service, without a quotation mark, and with the quasi-licensed permission of the medium. or a public health inspector for these activities. Here, however, questions arise as to how the doctor who is responsible for this work knows what the person is currently trained for. These training courses are not uniform at universities at the moment, and in the last thirty years, there has been a lot of changes in the curriculum. How does the doctor know how much practical training he received at the university? How can you know that you have experience in that area, even in that particular industry, that inspector? How do you know what quality work you're gonna check out? Who controls these professionals from a professional point of view? But if you don't know that, then how do you give an informed opinion, how do you give permission to do so? How to take responsibility, professional responsibility and legal responsibility for this? Because this part of the Safety and Safety Act has a very large impact on accidents that may occur later in the workplace. The third point is that I do not like the fact that if the employer has his own occupational health doctor, who has all the expertise to perform these tasks, then why do this need to be done by a lower, perhaps outdated, specialist. Is this really in the interests of workers, will this serve the safety of workers? I don't think so. And the last point that hit my eye again is that I just don't understand that the proposal is 27. The reason for, and on what basis, the employee intends to give access to his/her health and related personal data to an external service provider, without giving this right to his/her own occupational safety professional. Not even any other doctor has access to medical personal data, except the medical doctor or emergency doctor or ambulance doctor, but these should also be justified and logged; and here, an external, non-health care professional would be in charge of handling these data? How does this fit with the Health Personal Data Protection Act? What will the data protection authority say? And on what basis or in what way will you be entitled to access the data? It requires a medical identification stamp and a separate entry code. Overall, I cannot agree with the amendment of the OSH Act in this way, because it is unthinkable, unprofessional from a health point of view, endangers the processing of personal health data, and I think it is harmful for workers as well. Then what's it for? Whose interest is it? Because it's not the doctors, it's not the employers, it's not the employees. I propose that we do not support this proposal, that we take steps in the direction that health laws and regulations should be prepared by health professionals; this is not a party policy, but a professional issue, and that is what common sense requires. And finally, two data. Today there are nearly 4 million 800 thousand organised workers in Hungary. At present, 2800 medical specialists are in possession of an operating licence. Detailed justification is not understandable in this aspect 19. The EESC notes that, taking into account the lack of a doctor in the field of occupational health, they would like to take such measures. [[19.00]] The average number of 1700 employees is one specialist, large companies have an independent occupational health service, so the professional health professionals working in Hungary today can do this without error. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2022-11-10-152	Thank you very much, Congressman. To speak again, it will be Mrs Éva Sebők, from the Momentum Group. Here you go.
u2022-11-10-153	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to go back to the basics a little bit, and I'd like to draw the Secretary of State's attention to a few things. It seems to me that there has not yet been a fundamental fact in the debate. It has been said that they should have entered into force in August, but it is not that this alone is already the basis for an infringement procedure. But that's not the only thing in him that's going to establish such a procedure. The proposal has not been properly drafted, so for example, it is not known in the case of father days that the ten days are child-by-child or child-by-birth. If it comes at birth, you will damage the twin fathers compared to the current state. This is a second infringement procedure. The third point, where the minimum expectation could not be met, is that the proposal states that the father has to work at the workplace for at least a year. You wouldn't be required to do that. This will be the third procedure. The fourth procedure that I managed to put in the texting is... Yes, the delay, the one-year rule, the damage to twin fathers, and I will remember the fourth. Yes, the concept of a child, which has been put in such a way that only the child with whom they live in a household will qualify as a child from the father's point of view. Real life is not like this, children are born in real life from relationships that are very temporary: one-night stands, wine friendships, and farewell flies that close relationships. This does not preclude the creation of two very cooperative parents there, bringing up an excellent, healthy child in good conditions, yet you exclude a father in such a parental relationship from the concept of fatherhood. They couldn't do that, not only morally, but the directive doesn't allow you to do that either. So four infringement procedures have been stashed into the proposal itself. And then I'd like to go back to the political argument. What you need to know about me is that in the first 12 years of my career, I've worked up a lot of small-time, childish, sick cases, by which I mean tens of thousands of employees. During this time, I had a total of... I can count on my two hands how many of my dads have regularly gone to child care with their children. The mother always left, and in total, I can tell by number, I had four cases where the father went for a while. In two cases, he went to the father's child for singleness, in one case for widowhood. Nevertheless, you have presented us with a proposal that, in the case of father's day, the second five days would pay 40 per cent and parental leave would pay 10 per cent. (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Dear members of the Government. Dear Secretary of State, I do not wish to offend your intellect by assuming that you are not fully aware that under such conditions the fathers will not leave, will not take the second five days, will not take parental leave. I do not understand how a proposal can be so cynically formulated, so cynically trying to put an EU regulation in the Hungarian legal order. I don't think the Secretary of State is responsible here, so I don't mean for him to do this, but the kind members of the government, and especially Zsolt Semjén, on my part, damn it. [[Sic!]] That's why.
u2022-11-10-154	Congresswoman, I'm asking you very nicely. [[Éva Scars: I too would like to ask a lot of things.]] In this House, swearing hasn't been fashionable. [[Éva Scars: I have a lot to ask for.]] Please, with all due respect, with all due respect...
u2022-11-10-155	I do not understand why you really hate Hungarian fathers, why you hate Hungarian families so much. Mr. Nacha! [[Nacsa Lawrence salutes.]] Let me give you an anecdotal example. I have a very dear friend, a two-year-old mother who lives in a relationship, engaged specifically, her fiancé is the father of the two children. I just invited her to come with me to a town event, specifically a prom, to have a girls' night out. One kid's four years old, the other one's three. He couldn't come with me because he couldn't for one night, for six hours, leave the two kids at home with their own father. It's just that for the past four years, the father hasn't been so caught up in childcare that he can handle it. I rarely agree with the President of Novak, but I agree with him now. We need dads who can do this kind of thing. And you can say anything, this is not the Hungarian average. Of the vast majority of pro-government representatives, I cannot believe that he could spend six hours at home alone with his own three-year-old. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Come on!]] I can't believe what Fat said over the years, I can't believe what Dr. István Varga said in 2012 because of what I hear from Tamás Deutsch often. [[Congresswoman Nacsa, how many children do you have?]] You don't want to ask me that question, believe me. You can decide now that you really want this to be a family-friendly country that's in the interest of families, or you want this to be a medieval country that's got medieval family models in mind. Secretary of State, part of our amendments improves the mistakes that have been included in the proposal, obviously we cannot improve that electoral legislation was more important than compliance with the directive, but I am asking the Government to recommend that at least the part of our amendments that improves drafting errors be accepted. Thank you very much. [[András Fekete-Győr applauds.]]
u2022-11-10-156	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Two-minute speeches, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the KDNP Group.
u2022-11-10-157	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Congresswoman, the MPs are also fathers, and on their behalf I would like to ask you to insult us by not being able to look after our own children. Several children's fathers sit in our benches, who conscientiously and honestly do everything in their power to be able to be with their children as much as possible, even if, as we can see, this does not always happen in the usual hours of work, and we are listening to you instead of playing with our children, but it is our duty, that is our job. But do not question the activities of fathers and, by the way, of pro-government mothers involved in raising children. In your first speech, you have insulted government officials who, by the way, have been working on the creation of this law. [[19.10]] I worked in central administration. Such legislation takes place in a way that professional and legal departments begin their careers, middle-aged, retired men, women together. You have made a fuss about everyone, people working in the department, mothers, fathers, singles, pre-retirement lawyers and career-starters who have worked on this law, honourable Member. All I ask is that you don't insult me, because your party partner, András Fekete-Győr, began his speech here with such a great upswing that he has now left his party policy glasses at home, and he just wants to talk professionally and emotionally about this bill. Let's face it, there's a way to do that, but you're insulting government officials, pro-government fathers. I ask that this should not be the way in the Momentum, if, in the last day and a half, one law was not thought to have a leading speaker, and only one law was considered to have an impact on the lives of Hungarian people, and it is important that Momentum gives its opinion. Then at least now don't come in here insulting everyone who's worked on this law, or even government representatives. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-11-10-158	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congresswoman Éva Sebők in two minutes, Momentum Group. Here you go.
u2022-11-10-159	Thank you very much. Mr. Nacha, let me remind you of the operation of the State Department. I don't remember that in the cycle before the previous cycle or the first two-thirds cycle, there was a case where the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was reorganized and the workers complained that they wouldn't make it to the kindergarten for their own children. To which Mr. Szijjártó replied that you would not have to work at the State Department. And then let's talk about who treats government officials. [[Nacsa Lawrence:]] Thank you very much. By the way, this is your family model.
u2022-11-10-160	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to speak on our agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Krisztián Kutnyánszky, Secretary of State, if you would like to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2022-11-10-161	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to respond briefly to what has been said in this debate. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Zsolt Szabó and Mr Lőrinc Nacsa for their support, for which we have been assured, and also for their professional contributions on other opposition parts. I would like to point out that the government's aim is to ensure the livelihood of Hungarian people, and employment policy has been trying to achieve full employment since 2010. The government's commitment to creating one million new jobs has been achieved. Despite the war and the crisis of sanctions, the number of employees has so far been above record in unprecedented terms. The steady rise in wages is indisputable. In July 2022, the average gross earnings of full-time employees amounted to HUF 500 000. The previous left-wing government increased the minimum wage by HUF 23 500 in eight years. In 2010, the minimum wage in Hungary was 73 500 HUF. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: We're bored! Boring!]] In 2022, however, it rose to HUF 200,000. [[Intercoms in DK's benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] The Government of Hungary is the government of families. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Does the Truth Hurt? Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Orbán, Butcher! The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2022-11-10-162	Fellow Members! I know it's hard, but be nice... [[Intercoms.]] Secretary of State, please.
u2022-11-10-163	Thank you. The amount spent on family support amounts to 5 percent of GDP in Hungary, which is above the EU average, double that. The 2022 budget also demonstrates the government's family-friendly policy. The budget for support for families is about HUF 3000 billion, which is nearly three times the expenditure in 2010. Mr Kordás said: I would like to draw attention to the fact that the bill is intended to transpose several directives, not only to comply with the directive on work-life balance or transparent and predictable working conditions, but also to comply with other EU legislation and other technical amendments. In the context of the amendment of the OSH Act, I would like to inform the Member that the bill was also expressed by the employers and employees' side of the National Committee on Occupational Safety and Health, with the participation of a number of occupational health experts in the Committee. Although the organisational issues of the labour authority do not affect the bill, I would like to point out that, in order to guarantee legal protection, a revision of the rules governing the control of labour law was carried out in 2020-21. Mr Gurmai's statement: given the fact that the amendments had to be passed through a number of legal acts, the amendments were necessarily dealt with in a package. The essence of the package of laws is that it amends certain points of different laws in the same regulatory field. With regard to the proposals on paternity leave, I have already indicated that the amendments contained in the bill before you must necessarily take into account, in addition to the interests of workers and families, the burden-bearing capacity of the budget, the possibility and scope of businesses. In addition, it can be concluded that both family policy and employment policy are a priority for the government in the context of the bill. In both terms of duration and remuneration, it should be pointed out that the employee and the employer may agree on this matter differently, i.e. the duration of the parental leave may be subject to higher remuneration on the basis of a joint agreement between the parties and the employer may grant additional days off. Once again, thank you very much for your professional contributions to the debate, and I would like to inform you that we are examining your proposals. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-11-10-164	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the bill on the order and organisational framework for the performance of certain public tasks for public sport will follow until closure. The government referral is T/1836. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Vargha, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence, Deputy Minister, author of the item on the agenda. Deputy Minister, you have the floor.
u2022-11-10-165	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Our children and grandchildren are our shared future, and their health is an important part of this future, and exercise is an essential part of it. The Hungarian government has set itself the goal of making Hungary a major athlete-breed, and has also set the goal of being Hungary's worthy host of large and significant international sporting events. During the period since 2010, there has been an unprecedented increase in the development of domestic sports facilities during our governance period. In 2014, the programme for training, gym and classroom building and expansion for all walks of the country with full national coverage began. By naming sport as a strategic sector, the government took a clear position on the renewal and modernisation of previously neglected, often deteriorating infrastructure. Thanks to the outstanding work of the past period, we have caught up with and, in many respects, preceded the surrounding countries in the field of sport infrastructure. In order to continue this work, it is necessary that the movable and immovable property in question remain the property of the State. The exclusive state-owned National Sport Agency Nonprofit Zrt. has been the largest organizer of international sporting events financed by the State in recent years. Despite the fact that we could organize outstanding sporting events, there were sometimes difficulties in the lack of cooperation. There is a need for a single system so that in future our country can organise multi-sport events in addition to sports world competitions. The most important element of this transformation is the review of the responsibilities of the National Sports Centres. The work of national sports centres will be carried out in the future under the National Sport Infrastructure Agency on the basis of the bill. [[19.20]] To carry out the tasks of this agency, NSÜ Zrt. NSÜ Zrt. is designated as the operating tasks of the public sports property. Some basic tasks related to the transfer to the organisation, the use of facilities and the organisation of events will be carried out within the organisation. Building the future, promoting youth and sport will play a key role in the government's programme. Recreational sport and quality sport, support for leading sports are interlinked concepts. Investments supporting sport life contribute to the health and education of future generations. The government considers it important to have European-class sports and leisure facilities in all parts of the country, as they are also the basis for competition and re-education, school sports and local recreational sports. We strive to make it possible for everyone to exercise, exercise, and encourage our children, young people, and older people to exercise regularly. In view of all this, I ask you to support the bill before us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-10-166	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Mrs Tünde Szabó, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2022-11-10-167	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Proposal for a law for the performance of public tasks and intended care for certain public sports purposes [[Sic!]] In fact, it defines what we wanted to do in the past period and will be able to create a new concept of state sport management. As we know, in recent years and years, the government has paid considerable attention to the area of sport this is the case, and in particular international sporting events have played a major role, as this has defined the training of replacements, sport and the professionalism of Hungary's introduction of a major event, and it has also been able to support many organisations at a high level. As a result, after 2010, sport activities received continuous grants and infrastructure improvements. The assets thus created have been operated by NSK, a public body engaged in the operation of a public sport facility, which currently has more than one hundred sports estates in its portfolio, the number of which is constantly increasing. In recent years, thanks to our outstanding work and government support, we have caught up with the neighbouring countries in the field of sport infrastructure development, as Mr State Secretary said. However, cost-effective operation can only be made even more effective if we pay attention to the utilisation of our facilities. The government's objective is to maintain the state ownership of movable and immovable property directly necessary for the provision of strategic and public tasks and to establish a unified system of ownership rights in respect of state-owned property, from which an exception may be granted only for a limited period of time or subject to a specific purpose. In the case of special properties such as the Olympic Centres, the key sports facilities, the educational schools, there is a clear definition of the specific objective referred to. This proposal should be supported because it contains cost-effective amendments in the field of management, maintenance, operation and development of sports property in the public sector and has been submitted for this purpose. Its basic objective is to manage and maintain state sporting property in an efficient, economical, safe and value-enhancing way, based on uniform principles, so that it can be achieved in line with social needs and expectations. The difficult challenges of everyday life require the continued operation, exploitation and development of state sports assets to be as effective as possible. The most important element of the transformation is therefore the revision of the responsibilities of the NSK, the coordination of the operation, maintenance, exploitation of sports facilities and the operation of the National Sport Infrastructure Agency in a single organisation. As we have read in the submission, the law defines the range of sports property within its regulatory scope, covering real estate and facilities for sports purposes currently used, operated, operated by the NSK budgetary body and to be transferred to the future State-owned agency established by law. In order to ensure the continued operation, exploitation and development of state sports assets, this bill establishes the National Sport Infrastructure Agency, to which sports property and facilities are transferred. In doing so, the Agency will take over the tasks of State-owned establishments managed by the NSK or by 31 December in relation to public-owned establishments under other legislation. If you look at all these sports assets, the proposal contains a total of 153 state sports properties, which will be subject to ownership rights of the Agency from 1 January. The principle of the new regulation is that the operation, maintenance and exploitation of individual state-owned sports properties takes place under other organisational frameworks, based on an agency model. The Agency, in addition to exercising ownership rights and performing the tasks of smooth operation, will facilitate the conduct of maintenance, improvements and the conclusion of recovery contracts, and the proposals will specify precisely how the Agency can be exempted from certain public burdens in the course of its activities. The bill also sets out the organisational framework of the National Sport Infrastructure Agency and declares that its tasks are performed by a state-owned company. The Agency shall act for and on behalf of the State in the performance of its public tasks. The budget will provide the resources needed to finance operating costs. The Agency shall also carry out general real estate operations in the context of sports estates, tasks related to the exploitation of real estate, activities not covered by the proper functioning of the property and other statutory activities, as well as the preparatory and construction tasks of each investment. It is an important point that the National Sport Infrastructure Agency is not entitled to transfer the ownership of public property subject to the exercise of its ownership rights and to establish, provide and otherwise impose a right of purchase, a right of pre-emption under a contract. To carry out these activities in accordance with the provisions of the Law on State Property, the Hungarian National Property Management Ltd. the holder. The purpose of the bill is therefore to ensure that the tasks relating to the operation and exploitation of national sporting property are performed in the form of an agency, by establishing a National Sport Infrastructure Agency with a separate budget resource, the tasks of which will be assigned a 100% state-owned company. The most important strategic pillar of the concept described is that it considers the interests of the community and the usefulness and utilisation of the facilities to be the most important. It is important to point out that this law serves the field of sport in order to make the management, maintenance, operation and development of state sports estates as favourable as possible in the future. To this end, the NSK will cease as a budgetary body, handing over its tasks to the Agency, which will create the legal conditions for this change. [[19.30]] In conclusion, this new motion will ensure the economic and long-term sustainable operation of sports facilities in the current economic environment. This is the purpose of the establishment of the National Sport Infrastructure Agency and the bill before us. Mr President, Dear House, On this basis, it can be said that the bill contains forward-looking provisions, which is why the Fidesz Group supports the draft law, and I therefore respectfully ask my fellow Members to also support the bill. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-11-10-168	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Ágnes Vadai, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2022-11-10-169	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I'll tell you honestly, I didn't think you'd have to deal with sports-related issues in presenting the defence portfolio, but we'll try to learn how to do that. The Secretary of State did not manage to speak four minutes as rapporteur, and apparently this area is still foreign to him. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] I am not surprised at this, because in recent times we have seen that the defence wallet is increasingly less and less performing the tasks that it would have to do most in a normally functioning government. We are now discussing the bill on the establishment of the National Sport Infrastructure Agency, specifically the T/1836 on the order and organisational framework for the performance of certain public tasks for sport purposes. Bill No. 1. However, before I speak very specifically of certain details of the law, allow me to tell you that the fact that the political leadership of the defence portfolio has accepted in recent years how quickly and essentially without resistance has become insignificant as the wallet responsible for defence policy. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has outsourced and collected the departments and tasks of the military's affairs around him, and the previous and current management of the wallet has assisted him beautifully and smoothly. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: That's not what this is about!]] If we think about it, in the previous term, the sport case was not here, but the defense wallet was no longer the issue of military procurement, for example, because it was given to Maróth Gáspár. You have abolished civilian control at the time, eliminated the integrated staff, and essentially created a duplicate in Székesfehérvár. As of October, Antal Rogán established a Defence Administration Office, and the National Event Management Centre is also in the Rogán Ministry. Military developments don't belong to the defense purse either. I can no longer decide that Minister Palkovics is still responsible for this area. In the last 24 hours, there has been a great deal of news about this, but the Minister for Sport announced a separate embarrassing event when on 5 November Minister Palkovics invited János Csák Minister for Culture and Innovation and the Minister for Defence to Zalaegerszeg to the future Lynx plant of Rheinmetal. These are all activities related to the Hungarian Defence Office and the defence wallet. Finally, yesterday the Prime Minister's Military Office was established to carry out the tasks defined by the Prime Minister in relation to the implementation and monitoring of the tasks of the Ministry of Defence and the Hungarian Defence Office, as well as to monitor the implementation of the military and defence industry development strategies and programmes as planned. Basically, we're dealing with insignificant political leadership and military leadership now under guardianship. So there's still the sport. The bill number 1836, which, once again, the Secretary of State of the Treasury summarized in 3 minutes and maybe 50 seconds, but do not think it is a work of its own. You have been allowed to submit this, to write it, and then here in Parliament this evening, when relatively few people are watching Parliament, we will discuss it together. This, as has been mentioned, establishes the National Sport Infrastructure Agency. If we look at the task of this agency, we see the following: general real estate operation, real estate exploitation tasks, real estate operation, construction, renovation, conversion, expansion, restoration, modernisation, development and demolition activities not covered by other laws [[Nacsa Lőrinc: They can't describe it!]] the provision of outpatient-healing services, therapeutic spa and related services, museum activities in the field of sport and physical education, the maintenance of the national professional museum of Hungarian sports and the preparatory-building tasks of certain investments, real estate, museologist, and some, I can say, even health-related activities. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Let them write it down.]] Therefore, let us confess, ladies and gentlemen, that they are not closely linked to the protection of the country, especially the defence purse. I understand you had to give something to the defense wallet at the end of the day, obviously it's the sport. And we would like to point out once again that you do not think for a minute that these activities, especially those related to the property and where there is money, will have anything to do with that. The creation of this agency serves no other purpose than to hide new positions, giving friends, relatives and acquaintances well-paying jobs. As far as the preparatory, construction, demolition, development and other modernisation activities are concerned, we all know that they will be transferred to your home builder, Lőrinc Mészáros, as they have been until now. However, if we study this bill more carefully, we will see a point in which the bill emphasises that the National Sports Agency is a private limited-service company which is a separate institution under the law on electricity and district heating. What does that mean, fellow Members? If government resolutions 421 and 419/202 are taken out, the priorities for heating have already been set. We have always known that sport is of paramount importance for you, not to create opportunities for sports for mass sports, not for voters, not for Hungarian citizens. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Yes!]] In spite of what Congressman Nacsa has said, many people have had sports facilities in the past, some churches, friends, relatives, acquaintances, but regarding mass sports, I have to say that they have not pushed themselves too hard. By the way, these two government decisions deal with the high temperature in sports facilities, thanks to your poor economic policy and completely misapprehensive assessment of the situation. For you, this was very important, so a separate government decision has been taken, a government decision that, by the way, accommodations that are not profit-oriented, but related to sporting events, can be maintained at temperatures above 18 degrees. It is quite clear that these institutions, which belong to this institution, once again, are 419 and 421/2022. Under Government Resolution No. 18, special-managed property with temperatures above 18 degrees and electricity burning on taxpayers' money. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] It doesn't matter that in certain other institutions where Hungarian citizens sit, perhaps citizens aged 14-18 are sitting, what temperature is there, it doesn't matter! There may be 18 degrees; here it must be above 18 degrees and the light must be on. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, what I can tell you is that it is very incomprehensible and it is humiliating for the past many years that the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence talks in 3 minutes and 50 seconds about real estate activities, construction, renovations, and the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence does not once speak about the Hungarian Defence Department, not once! It's his job, by the way. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Then it would violate the rules of the house! Tamás Vargha: It's not about that!]] To talk about the Hungarian Defense. The fact that sport has been brought in here is because, Mr Secretary of State, in recent years, as I have demonstrated, those areas have been removed from the political leadership of the defence portfolio, from the development of infrastructure forces, from the acquisition of military technology, from the issues of the military industry, but it is now apparent that the Prime Minister's decision yesterday has essentially escaped management powers, so it is worth considering that they have actually received sport. I get that someone doesn't mind the defense wallet. As I looked at it, the main activity of the Minister of Defence is to test the vehicle park of the Hungarian Defence Forces, especially helicopters and aircrafts, I understand, this is a good time. He has bought himself a proper factory with the money of the Hungarian state, where they produce suitable aircraft for this demand, I think he should use it. [[19.40]] The political leadership of the defense portfolio, based on this bill, clearly shows that it is completely unnecessary to sit here at all. You, Congressman Nacsa, are already useless. The 135 Fidesz MEPs need only one thing for Viktor Orbán to vote in favour of the regulation from time to time. That's why I need them. It's Carmelite governance, we all know that. You come in, you press the button, and then up in the Carmelita, not you, because you can't or can't ask, and you can't be upset about a decision, but you're nicely, slavishly executing decisions, pressing the buttons, always telling you. I have rarely heard that they have formed an independent opinion on any matter. The Prime Minister now institutionalizes that he is the Minister of Defence, the future will now be given a new name as Chief of Staff and the Chief of Hungarian Defence. So everything is at the same time, so rarely can it be seen that the defence committee does not discuss matters in the defence portfolio at all, and this is what has happened now, because this was the Committee on Culture, which has been designated for this activity, so it is completely foreign that the defence portfolio is concerned with this area. Once again, I understand that you had to give away the sport, because everything else has already been taken from the defense wallet. And the name of the National Sport Infrastructure Agency, as I mentioned, only another paying agent will be created for friends on the one hand for different positions. We've seen this. By the way, in a strange way, in a sports relationship, we see that there is almost no ministry where there is no person responsible for sports, who is mostly a friend, relative, friend, and there are some of them who do not actually perform any tasks. Of course, the agency, after apparently carrying out all kinds of real estate and construction activities, is obviously continuing the outflow of the money we have experienced over the past 12 years when you were talking about infrastructure development. And what's extraordinarily outrageous is that you've been less concerned over the past few years about how the local authorities are going to solve the public lighting. You're not particularly concerned about how the right temperature in schools can be solved, and let's just say if it's not 18 degrees or 20 degrees or if it's a little higher than that, the schools don't just drop this job in one place and tell you to fix it. It doesn't bother you that you can see it from the moon in Hungary, and now you can see it from a more distant planet. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: That's not a planet!]] inflation is unfolding. The fact that KSH is talking about 21 percent is added to the size of food inflation, these cases do not bother you. This does not need to be dealt with, it does not need to be discussed, but the fact that temperature in these facilities, which are important to you, should otherwise be above 18 degrees Celsius, is an important issue. I have not heard that you have put forward any programme here that has dealt with the issue of food inflation which is outstanding in Europe as well. I would very much like to ask you, really, honestly, although it is the Government's decision itself, that if someone looks at it, it is not exactly Brussels, but it is ripe, and obviously Congressman Nacsa will be talking about it, because he is the advocate for sanctions in Brussels. [[Nacsa Lawrence: God forbid!]] This has nothing to do with the sanctions in Brussels, it has nothing to do with it! The extent of inflation in Hungary has nothing to do with Brussels, it has something to do with you and your failed economic policy. Brussels has nothing to do with what defence issues mean to you. It has nothing to do with Brussels or anyone. This is not necessarily the case here, but the East may have something to do with how you systematically disorganized from the defence portfolio in recent years, by the way, the military, the defence of the country, and reorganized to the Prime Minister's immediate neighbourhood, the culmination of which I can say is that yesterday's Prime Minister's Military Office, where we now have manual control in one person, does not yet know who will be the head of this military office, but I do have a few guesses, but in any case the Prime Minister has gathered questions about the development of the military industry and the operation of the Hungarian Defence Office. This leaves the Ministry of Defence with the sports business, so we could slowly call HM the Ministry of Sports, to deal with it. I honestly think the only reason the Prime Minister didn't charge the defense wallet is because it would have been embarrassing. It didn't bother you that there was no Ministry of Environment, it didn't bother you that there was no Ministry of Education, it didn't bother you that there was no Ministry of Health. A prime minister with a militative use of words and politics, such as Viktor Orbán, is obviously important for him to have a property on Lake Balaton Street that is marked as the Ministry of Defence, which we do not know whether he is moving or not, because this is the second major project of your minister, Minister of Defence, to push collections out of certain properties and then to pose in the Castle. I would be much more pleased if the Minister had preferred to say no to sports matters, he would have said thank you very much, but that is not the job of the defence wallet to deal with these matters as a real estate agent, builder, and destroyer, but rather that it is his job to look after the protection of the country. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2022-11-10-170	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-11-10-171	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ágnes Vadai has rated me on several occasions, but this was the lowest because he said that I was an advocate of sanctions in Brussels. Well, God forbid I should be a spokesperson for sanctions in Brussels. However, I am opposed to sanctions in Brussels. That is what I wanted to offer to the congresswoman. However, I feel that the Secretary of State's 3 minutes 50 seconds ago was more valuable than your 15 minutes, honourable Member, because it was at least on the subject and did not violate house rules. In the next item on defence, the operation of HM and defence, I think we will have the opportunity to have enough debate on the next item, so I would like to respond to your criticism of the operation of the Ministry of Defence, which is the largest part of your speech in my answers, because we will have such a item on the agenda, which is what it is about, Madam honourable Member, and that is where this criticism or these comments come from. I would like to ask the honourable Member that Ferenc Gyurcsány was a good Minister for Youth and Sport. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Yes!]] This is the answer I was expecting, he says that Ferenc Gyurcsány was a good Minister of Youth and Sports. Not so long ago, Ferenc Gyurcsány said in an interview that this was a joke, as he was a youth and sports minister. So it was a joke, as Ferenc Gyurcsány was a youth and sports minister, so let's face it. Speaking of friends working at various ministries, when Ferenc Gyurcsány was a minister, Klára Dobrev was a deputy president of the Development Office, so if we are talking about nepotism, honourable Member, and friends and all, then let us clarify the mysteries of the past. You have also tried to insult us by being so unnecessary and voting as we are told. That's what you said, literally, that we're voting as we're told. TV does not always convey a full picture of the votes, or Parliament's mediations do not always convey a full picture, so I would like to say that there is a parliamentary vote in the DK fraction. It is Ágnes Vadai who stands up during the votes and with his hand indicates how to vote for the faction. There are a lot of video footage on this, Madam honourable Member, as you tell your colleagues that it is worth voting yes or no on a bill within the DK faction, you do a lot of this, but we are used to it, honourable Member. The Ministry of Defence and the field of sport. Since you have criticized Secretary Vargha here, you have said that you did it without conviction and without competence, so Congressman Vargha is an individual representative of a region that is famous for sport. An individual representative of a city with hockey, basketball, football, is now not exactly so much football, but hockey and basketball are certainly, but of course football also has a great tradition, an athletic city, a sports town in Székesfehérvár. Congresswoman tried to kick everyone, and she tried to insult everyone, the previous sports leadership, the current sports leadership, the Prime Minister, mentioned the Prime Minister about 19 times in her 15-minute speech, even though we are here now discussing a bill on the order and organisational framework of public tasks for sport purposes. The need for this amendment is due to the fact that the government has built or renovated the infrastructure background related to sport in recent years, so the proposal before us will organize this hinterland, make it more cost-effective and useful, comb together the results of the efforts made in different areas and focus its positive effects in the same direction. I think that's what this bill is about, a little bit as a director, a little after the development of the hinterland, this bill serves as a sort of co-ordinator. [[19.50]] We all know that there is an energy crisis, there is a war next door, and sanctions in Brussels are making it difficult for the European economy, so in this current economic situation, it is critical that the state solves its tasks in full and at the same time economically while maintaining the quality of the service. This amendment, therefore, does not change from a user side, but it is of particular benefit to the state and the sector, the interests of the community, the usefulness and optimisation of the facilities, in our view it is of national interest. Under the governance of the left, there was such a thing as sports matters, honourable Member, that there was a great deal of attention under your governance that sports matters, the Ministry of Local Government, were under the jurisdiction of you. Why didn't you criticize how the sports business fits into the authority of the local government? [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] It's okay, I know you can connect anything. You said that the independent ministries had a great impact. You weren't here in a previous debate, you had a separate Ministry of Labour, and then you had 12 percent unemployment. You had your own Ministry of Education, and then you left 15,000 teachers on the side of the road and got kicked out. So whether something has an independent ministry or not, your example shows that it's not a guarantee of anything. From your Ministry of Local Government to the national strategy sector, and from 2010 onwards, the sport sector started to develop effectively. If you look at it, during the Fidesz-KDNP governments, sports development is particularly successful. To mention three great things, the Gunner, the MVM Dome or the Danube Arena. It is enough to mention what high-quality world-famous competitions, matches or even concerts have been held in MVM Dome in recent years. After all, Hungary has hosted and will host several prestigious sporting events in recent years. These are good services for Hungary, tourism and the Hungarian brand, and their economic benefits are not negligible. The FINA World Water Championship, the co-organization of the football-Europe Championship, the European Super Cup Finals, the European League Finals will be an outstanding result in the future, or the organisation of the World Athletics Championship, of which our country can profit a great deal. Hungary is among the world's top in terms of the number of Olympic and Paralympic medals per capita and belongs to the world elite with its medals won in modern Olympics. The institution of everyday physical education can also be regarded as a Hungarian sport, and in many cases, important and regional unique initiatives such as the National Ovi-Sport, Student Olympics, or the "Léc" qualification system have taken place, and Hungarian ingenuity has created eqball, the sport that is now on the verge of Olympic entry. Sports development is also beneficial from a social point of view, research shows that health costs, youth crime rates, the spirit of fair play are reduced in this context, and social community cohesion is strengthened. National identity, civil and national pride and international recognition of Hungary are also increasing due to sports successes. I stopped to respond to your criticisms and accusations about the defence, because we will have an agenda for this, where we can do so in accordance with house rules, and so I ask you not to ask the Secretary of State why he did not talk about it, because the Secretary of State did what was his duty, he spoke about the law of which the Ministry of Defence is the author, because that is the only thing he could do in our constitutional framework here in Parliament, and we will have the opportunity to argue about further things, and then I will respond to the inability of the woman representing it. Until then, I would like to say that our faction will support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-10-172	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dezső, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2022-11-10-173	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Fellow Members! Mr. Deputy Minister. I myself have taken the lead speakership of this item within the faction, and I have two kinds of attachment to this agenda. One is that I have dealt with real estate in my previous life, and I like to have ideas about property that create an orderly framework. And the other is my connection to sports. I have been playing sports all my life, and now here my fellow Member Nacsa has indicated that the Deputy Minister has such a attachment, his single constituency is Székesfehérvár, which he called a sports town. And I am an individual representative of the capital of XIII. in its district, where there are two major sports clubs: one is Honvéd and the other is Vasas, which is particularly close to my heart, and it is this association, if I am not mistaken, which may have won the most Olympic medals. I grew up in this environment, and that's why I thought this agenda was important to me. Then not only me, but also the colleagues we talked to about it, we experienced more surprises. One of the surprises was that the defence wallet brought this question here, but my fellow Member Vada spoke about it longer. Believe me, it's a surprise for a commoner, but even for people who like sports, and they don't really understand how it got there. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] That's the way it is, you can pull it around, you can smile at it, everything else, usually people don't understand. Ask the people, what do they think about the defense wallet dealing with sports? I'd be surprised if they came to a different conclusion after this conversation than I did. That was the number one surprise. And the second is that I can conclude that you thought that something was not working well, because that is why you have to change it. What doesn't work well, they want to change. The problem is, I mean, from your point of view, they can't get past eight years right now. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] This law was made by you, which you are amending now. You invented this governance system, as I recall, Minister Balog brought it to Parliament in 2013. Now it's been eight years, could it be eight years? Eight years or almost nine, and you thought it was time to think about it again, because something is not working well, that's what I can think of. Then, thinking a little further about this whole established environment, I came to the conclusion that this obviously has a different history. If I'm benevolent, then I can think that maybe it's the events of the last few years that have led you to change the control system for running sports estates. The past few years, on the one hand, have been a pandemic period of more than two years, where, obviously, the various sports facilities, the real estate property, have suffered very badly for these two years, since these institutions were unused, and you have not been able to use them very much. Then came what we are all experiencing today, and this is the regime, and obviously you are very precise and well aware that it is very difficult to operate these properties because of the prices that are simply inexpensible, and that is why it is so brutal that you also had to consider the operation of these properties. So if you are benevolent, then you can conclude that these are the reasons why you thought that this area should be re-regulated. You can also sense from the description that your goal is to operate these institutions at any cost. It is already well - known that this will consume an unmerciful amount of public money. I'll quote from the presentation later, where it's quite straightforward. And here's the interesting thing: the whole country lives in this environment, the simple people with their own property are in the same problem as these sports properties. But it is not just the people who are in this problem; the municipalities, their own social and other institutions and sports facilities, cannot operate in the current regime. In the same way, small and medium-sized enterprises are thinking about how they can operate their own businesses in the current situation. So a lot of people, the whole country is in this situation. And here's the weird thing: how come the government heard the voices of a few thousand people? Because it's not more than a few thousand people, it's basically a sport, and their voices were heard by the government, and they immediately presented a measure here to Parliament. [[20.00]] That's interesting. So millions of people don't hear their voices? Can't you hear the voices of the teachers? Can't you hear the voices of our children, our grandchildren? They sit in 18-degree classrooms. Can't you hear the voice of people working in culture? And you can't hear the voices of the residents of social services? They're our parents, our grandparents, in 18-degree institutions, nobody cares about them. Why isn't there a proposal about this? I've got it. That's interesting. Think about it. You can hear a few thousand people's voices, and you can't hear millions of people's voices. Besides, I have met with those who form opinions, and I quote, because the sentence is so interesting, who does not understand that they make athletes hate Hungarian people as a program. And then I thought about that sentence, and there's something about that. So putting our top athletes in such a privileged, highly privileged position means that it makes it difficult for many people to love them. I was thinking that over the past 12 years, a large amount of sports facilities have been created, and it could be said that an relentless amount of sports facilities have been built throughout the country. And then it occurred to me that if there were such problems with these facilities now, how could they not once, in any case, deal with the sustainability of these facilities during the construction process. This should be a fundamental idea, and I think there is such a requirement. You didn't think about it. If you think about it, you can also see in the last few years how many large sports facilities have been handed over, say, the stadium of the big county city football team, where they chased operators with lasso and couldn't find them. Well, how is it possible to build something so that it doesn't have to be maintained in advance, and now we face it, well, it wouldn't have been a problem if we'd thought about it first. Now we are thinking about how to take advantage of it, not in design, at the stage in which they came up with the idea that it should be implemented at all. Sustainability was not an issue. That's a serious problem. I think that on the happier half of the world, when they're building these things, they deal with and think about it, and somehow there are no such problems with the operation of stadiums and sports facilities as we face year after year. These properties are untenable, which is obviously why this proposal was made. Unusually, there are a lot of real estate: 153. There are 153 properties in Hungary today that are now trying to find a solution to how these properties can be maintained, operated and operated under the control of the defence portfolio. I think that it is a good idea to create the order of the operation of the various assets, that is a good idea, but not the proposal for it. Wrong way. In the past, there has been an organisation whose task has been to operate these assets. This body operated as a budgetary body, employed civil servants and operated under strict statutory rules. For example, the history of public procurement was such a strict rule. What is this proposal about? Well, they're creating an organization that gets rid of all these constraints. The master is free: what will this be, what does that mean? Given the way they've worked so far, they're, to put it mildly, legalizing the distribution of money. I quote from the presentation:. The maintenance of the real estate circle is accompanied by a significant public demand. That's what I'm suggesting. That's what I'm suggesting. They're predicting that there's going to be an unmerciful amount of public money. In most cases, this means that it is not possible to talk about a return from a financial point of view and it is difficult to define their cost-effectiveness in terms of operation. Think about it. They write that it is simply not possible to determine how to operate this ideally, it takes a lot of money, and then we will do it very well. That's what I'm saying. That's what I'm saying. That's what I'm saying. And then there's a sentence that they're going to use to explain that the agency's activities are exempt from certain public burdens. A lot of people are struggling in the country today, almost everyone, how they can maintain their property. There, too, should be such a sentence that they should be given some kind of exemption from the obligation to bear public burdens, or at least a little reduction in VAT. I'm sure they'd be happy. If I gently said that this legalized spending of money would be in my reading, it would sound more harshly like legit theft would appear again, there would be free robbery out of public money, and we couldn't be partners in that. Thank you for your attention. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai and Dr. Tamás Bellozó applaud.]]
u2022-11-10-174	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Sas, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2022-11-10-175	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, The bill is about changing the performance of public tasks for sport purposes, about the government's intention to solve the future operational, maintenance and development tasks of sport through the creation of an agency. A 100% state-owned company is appointed to carry out the tasks of the National Sport Infrastructure Agency to be established under the Act. Ladies and gentlemen, Several elements of the proposal raise serious questions, given the fact that they have already adapted very complex supply systems in a way that is not in the interests of the country and not of the Hungarian people. The first problematic point of this bill is that a public budgetary body would be converted into a public company. Why is that necessary? I very much hope and hope that it is not because it will make it much harder to see the movement of public funds in sport as well, because a company should not operate under the same rules as a public budget body, and if we recall that we discussed here in Parliament about two days ago that, at the advice of the European Union, at its request, it is necessary to monitor the functioning of the budgetary bodies more closely, then it may be an interesting parallel that there is a reorganisation here. The next problem with the proposal is that it does not discuss what will happen to the facilities whose trust rights have been removed and then handed over to one of the sports clubs. I think that this is a very important issue, and I have not yet found an answer to this question at the level of reference in the proposal. From now on, will they also be financed by the State, and the association will be free to continue using them? Or what about the facilities that you've already had at the construction site? For example, I could say MVM Dome to you. I think this is also an extremely important issue, and it needs to be clarified. This is a bill, the specific details of which have not been properly developed, the solutions to fundamental problems have not been discussed, even at the foresight level. But let's move on, fellow Members. So far, NSK has also solved operations and recovery. With the current change, will two separate departments be designated for operation and recovery? Doesn't that mean specific outsourcing in terms of event organisation? Why does the state think he has to do everything? Event planning is not a state task. Of course, there's only one explanation if there are people who already know specifically which company will organize all NSÜ events. [[20.10]] The next problematic point of this proposal is that not only is there a complete lack of public magic and transparency, but they are already playing with the work and livelihood of the Hungarian people in particular. What about workers who are going to lose their civil servant status overnight? What are you gonna do with them? Is it normal for you to submit a bill in which you do not even consider this pressingly important problem at the level of a proposal? We have received no response from this proposal. Dear fellow Members, What do you mean by the third sports department? What about getting out of the business with the MOB? Or is it that the profession is out of the leagues? I hope no one's serious about this. Consider a specific example. Who's gonna negotiate at the World Wrestling Championship? Are you a representative of the NSÜ or a representative of the NSÜ and a representative of the Hungarian Alliance? In this case, there appears to be an extra character involved. The rest of the problem with the bill is that it doesn't deal with which events the NSÜ will organize, or events in which there is big money, and only certain companies can organise it. This will be unsustainable, fellow Members, the work of the Alliance, the money of various companies. Dear Parliament, The bill mentions the sites created to support replacement and residential sport, specifically the Danube Arena, Puskás Ferenc Stadium and MVM Dome. Can you tell me which one of these is for residential sports? Or is it the presence of supply sports in these? It's not very typical of any of them. In particular, tell us where to play a residential sport from among the locations listed in the amendment! I didn't find anything like that. [[Impressive Dezső: Not in any of them!]] Ladies and gentlemen, As stated in the proposal, if the property management rights of a swimming pool, a sports hall or a stadium are transferred to an association, why is the state financing its maintenance? Why does the state solve these questions? I'm sorry, but according to the law, it seems to me that you're giving up the possibility of involving private capital in sports, and that we're going back to the 1980s when the state supervised the sport and took all the credit for it. The lawmaker admits that there are areas that cannot be operated economically. There is no detailed justification for it, but we know that a swimming pool or even an ice rink is lost in general, at best it is zero. Now, however, this area is not defined on the part of the proposer, so it can be drawn to virtually any area that its operation is not economical, and from now on, any amount of money can be poured into this bottomless well, a significant part of which will migrate to private pockets, based on the experience of recent years. That's all, but it's not about supporting the sports world. This is about supporting different well-defined economic circles. Dear Parliament, Is the new agency planning the wage arrangements for employees operating sports facilities? Underpaidness in this field has been a problem for many years. And there's no specifics in this law. How much will the agency run on? The NSK had a budget line, and now they want to integrate three areas under an organisation. Does this mean that the sum of the three organisations will be added together and this will be your budget? Who will be the leaders of the new agency? My fellow Members, this bill is not a solution to this complex problem, it meets only a goal of centralisation, and it would be difficult to support it in its present form. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]]
u2022-11-10-176	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr President Novák, the lead speaker of the group of our country. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-11-10-177	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, According to the bill on public tasks for sport purposes, instead of supporting Hungarian families, it is more important to have track heating in the stadiums. The 20-page bill would also finance the maintenance of a number of private sports facilities through budget money, hidden behind the robe of the public service. Operating and overhead subsidies would also be granted to facilities where the club, the Hungarian team using the facility, uses mainly foreign legions, pushing Hungarian athletes out. Unfortunately, only the Hungarian Movement would like to change this, they didn't even sign up for a speech in history..., from physical education, but also from history, not even from acquitted moments, from Dialogue and LMP, even though it would be a very important topic. It is clear from this bill that the government has been scratching violently over the years because of its mindless, thoughtless investments, which led to the creation of low-utilisation stadiums and sports facilities, such as the 4 000-seat stadium in the village of Felsút, which was inaugurated in 2014, with a capacity of 4 billion forints. By the way, low-utilisation stadiums are in trouble, and just on the day of the submission of the new bill, it turns out that Honvéd Stadium will be closed because of the bills. These facilities were already loss-making investments on the day of their construction. The question arises, of course, who has a financial interest in the construction of these facilities, the maintenance and operation of which will now be borne by all taxpayers, see the state budget will maintain and operate, which, apparently, will not be enough, because the National Sport Infrastructure Agency Zrt. they will also be exempted from public burdens. The solution, therefore, is not to transfer the maintenance and operating costs of these largely incomprehensible and unjustified investments to Hungarian taxpayers who are still living overnight and who do not have their own rent. Rather, it is financed by the government-wide public companies and NER oligarchs, who built these unused buildings, built them, and from which their pockets were well stuffed, because there were exaggerations, even if there were clearly justified investments. The National Sports Centres, the National Sport Infrastructure Agency, would therefore cease to be in place on 31 December. According to the bill, NSÜ would be managed by some 140 facilities operated by NSK and 13 other facilities, including the Papp László Sport Arena, Puskás Arena, FTC, Újpest, Vasas, MTK, BVSC Stadium, Bozsik Stadium, Rátgéber National Basketball Academy, Veszprém Arena, Tüskekcsarnok and Duna Arena. But the proposal does not include the National Athletics Centre based on HUF 238 billion. Secretary of State, please respond to who will run the stadium after the World Athletics Championship. It is clear that the real estate development of the past decades has greatly improved the country's sports infrastructure, and this must also be recognised, but when designing the construction, several expert opinions indicated that it was not enough to build stadiums, sports halls, swimming pools, the sustainability of the facilities and the long-term use of the facilities. A deterrent example is the rapid depreciation of the Olympic facilities in Athens in 2004 and the lack of overestimated use of settlement. Our country has spent hundreds of billions of forints on construction over the last decade mostly with EU money, but the utilisation and economic sustainability of the facilities are in no way adequate. According to my information, Viktor Orbán himself is dissatisfied with the use of sports facilities, which is why we have this bill; the current National Sports Centres have informed the sports cabinet of our country about it. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Employees of the National Sports Centres that cease to exist will otherwise lose their status as civil servants by adopting this law as of January, so that a few days of paid leave per year can be mainly a loss. Let us also talk about the disadvantages of the current set-up, because there are undoubtedly some, and it is justified to touch the current situation, since no one has dealt with making much better use of the facilities to generate revenue. I myself go to one of the facilities of the National Sports Centres to train at times, and I experience a lot of congestion myself, nowhere else that works on a business basis, we can't see that. However, Zrt. will have to be profitable. [[20.20]] The managers of a given facility had the right to give a 50 percent discount on the rent of the institution they run, which is a highly abusive provision, if you think of such Bastion Comrade Syndromes. With the new lineup, it's supposed to go away. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: That's a hundred percent!]] Based on this information, many of the government's relatives, who are less qualified for their work, are familiar. Zrt. We can only hope that they will require more expertise in the future. The law would therefore also finance the maintenance of private sports facilities through budget money, hidden behind the robe of the public service mission. The Veszprém Arena, the multifunctional hall in Szeged, is also worth taking a look at the list of properties with public tasks. From the point of view of their exploitation, it is primarily the workplace of foreign athletes and top athletes. Or the Bozsik Stadium, the Honvéd Academy, the first team of Budapest Honvéd has 15 legions, representing 54 percent of the frame. Then the Football Academy in Kisvárda, currently 66 percent of their football team's funds are foreign nationals. Dear Parliament, I find it unacceptable that operating and overhead subsidies will also be granted to installations where the former club has employed a high percentage of foreign legions for many years. It is incomprehensible that all this is done by the law while putting the cover of public service before expenditure. In most of our team sports, foreign athletes and even non-EU athletes can be used without restrictions. This way, for example, only 7 of the 27 players entering the field at this year's Szeged-Veszprém handball finals were Hungarian players, or only 3 out of 22 players at the Fradi-Újpest football match held last fall. In addition, they are not so good, though, foreigners, although Hungarians have little chance, the football goal king has been given in recent years by the Paks team, who only stand up with domestic players. At present, Hungary also states that, although we have operated Hungarian sport on an outstanding level for 120-130 years without the excessive use of foreigners, we cannot do so by the 2020s. Of course, this is not true now, but it sends our national self-esteem to the ground, and with this it also dissipates Hungarian re-education. As the president of the Sports Cabinet of the Hungarian Movement, Attila Nagy, has repeatedly drawn attention, it doesn't matter who succeeds. We believe that we have the right to create a law that guarantees the participation of Hungarian athletes in the championships organised with Hungarian taxpayers' money, in sports facilities built from paid taxes. However, the current legislation is absolutely not like this. In the future, it should not be possible for Tao money coming to the clubs to migrate to such a significant extent into the pockets of foreign athletes. It is not, of course, that a foreigner is not allowed to participate in these tournaments, but the percentage of Hungarian citizens on the course would be 50-70% depending on the sport. How can a government calling itself national and sport-friendly provide foreigners with so much of our team sports as a source of national pride? Mr Secretary, we would like an answer to that. There's a positive example, by the way. For example, in volleyball there must always be at least one third of the Hungarian players on the field, so the last time Nyíregyháza won 3:1 against Újpest, the Hungarian Volleyball Association decided to win because of the Hungarian quota of Nyíregyháza that was not fulfilled at one moment. That's a fine. I like it. However, in the bill before us, let me criticise the name of the new organization. The National Sport Infrastructure Agency also objects to our Hungarian Movement. On the one hand, the role of an agency in Hungary, I think, does not sound good. On the other hand, the infrastructure is a bit tongue-breaking and unhungarian, which is why we recommend the name Zrt., for example, managing national sports facilities. Further concerns and questions about the bill are raised as they eliminate the role of ownership practitioners of national sports centres, as set out in Article 7. I'm thinking of Section 5 [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Road detachment!]] , the National Sport Infrastructure Agency hands over maintenance rights and the National Sports Agency Nonprofit Zrt. carry out the tasks of the NSÜ. Why is this restructuring necessary? Why couldn't national sports centres be given the right rights? In addition, NSÜ is considered to be a separate treated institution under the Electricity Act and the district heating Act. What exactly does that mean? That's what we'd like to know. How much discount will the incoming properties receive from the market price, who will pay the price difference, how much will this cost the budget, the Hungarian state, the Hungarian taxpayers? In order to carry out public tasks, sports estates are classified. If the owner so requests, the Minister responsible for the development and management of sports facilities may take the initiative to support the establishment on the basis of his position. The Hungarian State undertakes to operate real estate classified for public service even if it has no ownership in it. In this case, this agency will carry out the task on the basis of an operating/recycling contract or cooperation agreement. But there's something I like about this list, and let me close with that. When determining the eligible public tasks, I think that the outpatient care of spas has also been included, in any case, a positive aspect in the event of the adoption of the law. There are, therefore, many points in the law that can be attacked, which, by the way, still scratch the threshold, so let me highlight these as closing terms only because of the time constraints: the responsibility of contractors, public support for private property, restructuring instead of giving sufficient powers, a list of real estates. Legal provision for the extension of the list may be a hotbed for abuse, who will be included in the beneficiaries' circle, instead of whom the state will pay the bills, so to speak. Government-wide club owners, facility owners, beneficiaries. Secretary of State, members of the government, that's enough corruption. Thank you for your attention.
u2022-11-10-178	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congresswoman Agnes Vadai, DK Group. Here you go.
u2022-11-10-179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have immense respect for sports performance and sports love. I'm scratchy, and we've recently built or built a shaman drum, but that doesn't make me feel like a shaman expert or a drum expert. So just because someone in their constituency has an extremely large and successful sports life doesn't make him an expert on sports himself. For the record, the Ministry of Defence has a Secretary of State for Sports Affairs, because I could do that, Dr. Adam Schmidt. He would have been able to come quietly, and then he should have talked about this subject, not to the Secretary of State, who, by the way, was known in the field of defence matters. On the other hand, I would like to note that Congressman Nacsa is right about the fact that you have the Ministry of Justice in your government, but then we do not see much justice in Hungary, especially in the last 12 years. What we see most of all is the means by which you try to cover up the real processes that are in Hungary. I understand, of course, that the last eight years of the past 12 years have to be pointed back to, but I would suggest to the Member of the Council, the women and gentlemen of the pro-government council, that they study the PISA test and read it, although, on the other hand, some of them may not always be able to read to you, let alone to the growing new generation, who cannot because the education system has otherwise been systematically destroyed and the age limit for compulsory education has been reduced to 16. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You've dismissed 15,000 teachers!]] Finally, I very much agree that Hungary's brand must be built. Obviously, athletes, international athletes, are primarily a success for a particular athlete. We are proud of them, because they have achieved them in the colors of Hungary. I know you don't think so, because obviously we're traitors, serialists, other people. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] I'll keep going. Thank you very much. [[20.30]]
u2022-11-10-180	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó, MSZP Group.
u2022-11-10-181	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Here, at late hour, we are discussing a bill on the maintenance of high-priority sports facilities at 8:30 p.m., and I hear that we have heard here in the last few minutes, half an hour that my fellow members of the government, especially Congressman Nacsa, do not understand why we are discussing the fact that in these stadiums and sports facilities, this law specifically provides for exemptions from the obligation to bear public burdens, as well as exemptions from electricity and district heating laws. So, most likely, these institutions will not receive electricity at a price of 6 times 25 times the price, as will kindly Hungarian citizens and other municipal institutions, and they will not receive district heating at 10-11-12 times the price, as will all other public institutions in Hungary. Then who do not understand, my fellow Member, I will read you a letter, and then perhaps you will understand that at the moment, when there is supposedly a war-related emergency in Hungary, what we do not understand. This is the letter from the district center to the mayor of Siófok: Mr. Mayor! We would like to inform you that, in view of the current economic situation, from the first day of December 2022, we cannot provide hot water for kitchens in Siófok public education institutions. In addition, it is the responsibility of the municipality to provide hot water supply. Please take note of the above. Mr. Congressman, let me ask you something back: what is it you don't understand? In our children's school, the state also gives up its basic functions, and tells the bled-out local government, from which the maintenance rights have been taken away, that either you solve the heating of our children's school or it won't be included. Do you understand, my fellow Member, what is wrong with giving priority sports facilities tax incentives and heating discounts? This! Thank you for listening.
u2022-11-10-182	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor in the normal time frame to Mrs Ágnes Vadai, DK Group. Here you go.
u2022-11-10-183	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Then I would like to continue where we have just interrupted, Hungary-brand. I agree with all those Members who say that it is very important to build this brand, and indeed it cannot be disputed that sports performances such as the European Championship or the World Championship Olympic Championships and medals are building this brand. There are people in this House who have built this brand, and we thank them very much. This, however, does not mean that everything can be done from here on out. It doesn't mean that! And it does not mean that from then on, this area of Hungary-brand construction, which is the most prominent, financed and benefitted by the government, will be the area of all kinds of advantages. In particular, in a situation like that of many of my fellow Members, whether Mr Believer or Mr Harangozó, Hungarian citizens in other areas are faced with the fact that, rather than being special, they do not receive normal treatment, which can be expected from the state on a basic basis. You may recall, fellow Members, that I have just mentioned, in my original speech to the lead speaker, the example that Mr Bellozó said that, yes, in the case of Siófok, for example, the state simply blew off this responsibility, this task, while tonight, in this bill, we are asked to support us in order to have these sports facilities under special consideration, for example, from the point of view of district heating or electricity. Perhaps, fellow Members, it should be a priority, a proper, fair order. I think that at first perhaps schools, different institutions, institutions serving citizens directly, and especially, once again, I would like to stress that it is in the interests of children... if you are family friends, you always say so, although, as you have heard in the previous bill, more people have said here that you may indeed be family friends, but we could, in a nice, short time, list the families of which you are truly friends, because you are not friends with all Hungarian families. But if you consider yourself a family-friendly government, then it is simply incomprehensible why in these matters you insist on a very rigid and dogmatic idea, which is obviously not yours. Congressman Nacsa criticized me because I was talking about defence issues, and I would like to ask the Member not to do so next time, because he was not criticising me, but the leadership of this House, and that is not possible. As I would also like to ask you not to point out what you have done here next, the demonstration of voting. I'm sure you didn't see me show you that. I am concerned that you do not have any questions, opinions or objections to the Prime Minister, but that you do not seem to stand up even in matters which I know you think differently with conviction in the plenary Chamber. Among your representatives, there is one who dares not speak to some political leaders, I have seen this with my own eyes. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You have it!]] No, we don't have one, so we can talk to any political leader. Some of you are afraid to talk to specific political leaders, even in this House, so that, oh, oh, oh, don't say anything that's gonna go wrong. I understand, I can accept, or I can acknowledge, that this is your attitude. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: How many times have you contradicted Ferenc Gyurcsány?]] However, I would very much like to ask you to stand up and sometimes face your own political leaders, especially the Prime Minister. Because it's one thing for the Prime Minister to outsource his own defense-related departments and tasks, but that's... [[Nacsa Lőrinc: It's not the law!]] Congressman, you can yell at me, please don't criticize the leadership of this meeting. The Speaker of the House, the president-in-chief, didn't criticize what I was doing, you didn't. I am not responsible for this, but I think that Mr Vice-President is very good at leading this meeting. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] But I would like to add that in recent years in sports, we have seen that in fact this country, collectively, all taxpayers, whether they loved the particular sport or not, financed the Prime Minister's hobby. If it was a nice match for the Prime Minister, he was able to get on a plane and travel to see a particular game. If the sports newspaper is important to the Prime Minister, it will be immediately important for financing Hungarian taxpayers' money. If football is important, we built stadiums. If the Prime Minister were interested in one of the bands, one of the rock bands, then that rock band would give a concert in this country on the Hungarian taxpayers' money every week. Resist this attitude, because this is not in Hungary's interest, especially in this situation. You're talking about a lot of things, and you're not really an advocate of sanctions in Brussels, that's true, so I'm sorry, that's where I was wrong. The Prime Minister is the spokesperson for the person who voted in favour of all the sanctions in Brussels, and then here you are trying to deny it, which is obviously impossible, because the Prime Minister was at the meetings where you voted on it. And obviously you weren't informed, more specifically, of the communication pamphlet, what to tell you about it. But I would like to draw attention once again to it, and then I would like to say to Congressman Nacsa that the next bill is not about the Hungarian Defence Forces. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: I didn't say that!]] So if you've read that bill properly, unfortunately, it's not about that either, it's just about renaming it, because obviously Congressman Simicskó's request must be...
u2022-11-10-184	Congresswoman, please remain on the agenda.
u2022-11-10-185	That's right, I will.
u2022-11-10-186	I've been listening. On the next agenda, you will have the opportunity to make your point.
u2022-11-10-187	That's right. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
u2022-11-10-188	Again, please. Thank you.
u2022-11-10-189	But I just told you, Mr. Vice President. So thank you very much for the warning, and I just wanted to draw your attention to the fact that, just as this bill is not about the Hungarian Defence Agency, the next bill is not really about that either. This bill is about the fact that, on behalf of the defence portfolio, the Deputy Minister, obviously the Secretary of State responsible for sport, was unable to make a proposal on property activities. [[20.40]] Which many of us have challenged, and I would like to recreate, and recall that 419/ and 421/2022. Government decision has already foreseen what is clearly your policy from now on, namely that under the Electricity and Tele Heat Act, these institutions under the National Sport Infrastructure Agency are treated separately. You will vote in favour of this bill, because you have said that you have always voted in favour of everything that the government has put forward, but let us give you a little thought to the fact that these investments in infrastructure and these sports facilities are at all now, obviously they must be operated by some means, just understand that, in this country's present situation, in particular, thanks to your wrong economic policy and completely failed economic policy, many people in Hungary are in a very difficult situation, and we are not only talking about Hungarian citizens, but, unfortunately, there are different institutions, whether private or local authorities. Some municipalities consider reducing public lighting. Compared to this, you treat these sports facilities as a separate facility for electricity. There are institutions in this country where it is 18-20 degrees, institutions where children are studying. You know, the people you always say are the future and how important they are. These kids are sitting in there at 18-20 degrees. Of course, they're not the ones who go to private school, because obviously, who can pay for it and there's someone who can pay for it, obviously there's a higher temperature there, because parents, if nothing else, put that money in it, but those schoolchildren whose parents can't afford it, they're going to sit at 18 and 20 degrees, while these sports facilities can have temperatures above 18 degrees. I beg you, sport is very important, but the construction of Hungary-brand does not begin here. It starts with the fact that they provide the growing up next generation with conditions that are healthy, and healthy conditions and environments include the fact that these children are not cold at school. I understand that it is important that athletes do not get cold during training, but if you have to choose, frankly, so that children do not get cold at school or athletes do not get cold during training, children do not get cold at school. If there are so many sources that the school heating of children can be solved, then, ladies and gentlemen, if you do not choose this, then you are not just bad politicians, but you are inhuman, this is not acceptable. Now your governance has created a situation, and this law clearly shows that there is a need to choose at one point, and it is your choice to have it in sports facilities, so that everything is in sports facilities to be treated separately. I would add that slowly and slowly, as we were talking here and looking at the representatives of the defense wallet, I remembered that this sport business may have come to an end in addition to keeping some kind of territory in your possession, because at this time it will be possible to refer to defence interests. At this agency, at the agency and at the agency, and at all during the whole operation, as Mr Believer rightly pointed out, a great deal of money will be needed, a lot of taxpayers' money will appear. In the past, I can't say that in 12 years, because that's not true, because only 2016-2017, but actually since 2018 there have been regular developments in HM, before that, between 2010-15, they spent under 1 percent of GDP, so the defense portfolio was just blurry somehow. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: In 2006-2010 it was negative.]] We'll take that someday, Congressman, if you need it. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Yes.]] To count what is less, 0.9 or 1, because obviously mathematics has problems. But it is clear here that this new agency, which deals with sport infrastructure, can be put before Parliament, among other things, because it will be possible to say that it is a defence interest, who is working there, how many people are working there, what kind of salary, what kind of taxpayers' money is being spent, as my fellow Members have said here, and then it will be possible to say on the grounds of defence that this is not public in the interests of defence, because you have been using this forcefully in recent years. I would like to say one more thing to you about the Hungarian brand, which the Member has mentioned, and sport indeed contributes, but many others contribute. What you have done in recent weeks and months in relation to Hungary's membership of the European Union and NATO and the membership of NATO in other countries inside and outside Parliament, this Hungarian brand is seriously and severely destroyed. The fact that Hungary is a reliable ally requires a different attitude, not that you prefer certain sports facilities, such as schools, different institutions. I believe that if you want to build a Hungarian brand, one of the best ways of doing this would be to monitor the steps that Klára Dobrev, Prime Minister of the Shadow Government, is taking to build the image of Hungary that you have destroyed and torn apart. A lot of people, I mean, in order for Hungary to have a kind of image, once again, athletes, not athletes have contributed to this, but your behaviour has systematically destroyed it in recent years. And today Hungary is not mentioned because we have many Olympic gold medalists, silver medalists, world champions, European champions, not only because there was Puskás I am not a football player, football proficient, but obviously I can judge that his activity was excellent, and he created a very lasting not only in the Hungarian but also in the international football world, but also in the international football world, there were scientists, there were artists who contributed to the construction of the Hungarian brand. You, on the other hand, have systematically destroyed this over the last 12 years.
u2022-11-10-190	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-11-10-191	Thank you for the floor, Congressman. I maintain that I will respond to complaints and misunderstandings about the defence on the next agenda to Mr Vadai. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai to Woman.]] Congresswoman. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: You can see it in vain in pants.]] That's it. I would like to point out to a gullible Member that, before he makes a sound here, he would spread rumors that no temperature regulation applies to social institutions. You started talking about nursing homes, social institutions, and 18 degrees of social institutions. Congressman, I understand that you are opposed to this bill, and I also understand that in this heat you want to say great things to the government, and you want to criticize the government, you can only follow the meeting, and you can listen to what people are saying who are involved in this matter, and you may not suspect that these people will be alarmed if they hear what you are saying. I would like to make it clear that this is not the case. You have now made this proposal a resivita, I think it is wrong. On the subject of sports sikers, Mrs Vada also spoke in a moderate disparaging way about the fact that this only partly contributes to the brand, but it is still only individually contributing to the Hungarian brand, not as a joint success of the community. National pride has never been your strong suit. But you did not answer, honourable Member, if you have criticized the defence wallet so many times that you think there is room for sport at the Ministry of Local Government? 'Cause you guys did. He was led by a local government minister who was not supported by the municipal committee in Parliament, honourable Member. So the parliament, your majority, the MSZP-SZDSZ majority, thought that it was not a suitable minister, and then Ferenc Gyurcsány maintained his nomination, and thus became the Minister of Local Government, who was also responsible for sport, honourable Member. Was that a good sports policy? I would ask the honourable Member, who has never contradicted Ferenc Gyurcsány in her life, but now she says why we do not dare to contradict Viktor Orbán. Says the DK vice-president in DK, who is even given to the representatives of the local government, who they cannot speak to, which press organ, and who they can speak to; where there is essentially an organizational structure that cannot breathe without leadership, and even call the party presidency to see what kind of ice cream someone would like to buy on the beach, perhaps on vacation. [[20.50]] Ladies and gentlemen, The fact is that the debate is not a rezivita, it is not energy... and we are having an energy crisis, we are arguing about it a lot, we are discussing the energy issue, it is important to solve the crisis and the energy crisis, and it is important that without your support, we have maintained the reduction of the rent and every Hungarian family receives HUF 181 thousand per month. Because that is the truth, ladies and gentlemen, when they try to create a mood and try to confront athletes, try to confront students and residents of the social institution, that is not true. It is first and foremost for the government in the energy crisis to ensure that Hungarian families are reduced by the rent, and therefore the Hungarian population pays the lowest prices to the level of average consumption. That's the top priority. Everything else comes next. Of course, the government will also manage the heating of schools. There is no accident that energy efficiency investments have been made in schools in recent years, such as window change, such as insulation, such as boiler change, and so on, roof insulation, yes. Here's what happened in Karcagon, honourable Member. For example, the government also acquired external container boilers during the energy crisis in order to replace gas heating in several schools, where it causes extra costs. Moreover, the law clearly regulates what the municipal task is and what the state task is. They are asking for this not to be confused in political interest about what is a municipal task and what is a political task. The mayor of Siófok, if he hadn't been busy following Péter Márki-Zay in the last year, it might have been better. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a state task and there is a municipal task, and I would like everyone, as well as mayors, state and everyone to be able to carry out their duties under the law. I think our sports success is our common sporting success, even though we weren't in the pool, on the track, on the track, on the bike track, and so on, national success, which should be appreciated, which is worth being proud of. Let us break off with the Socialist's policy of being small; let us be ambitious; we have the highest number of Olympic medals in proportion to the population, honourable fellow Members. It's a huge achievement. There were people in the queue before us, and there are many of us who are worth being proud of, whose performance, by the way, inspired hundreds of young people or inspired thousands of young people to start that sport. I started playing water polo when the water polo team won in Sidney. The inspiration also inspired me as a personal example that there was a team who put performances on the table that, as a nation of ten million, we were better than all the teams in the world. And so there's a lot of swimming, football, basketball, handball, hockey, and so on. This process must be strengthened, not weakened. We must not go against this process, but be proud of it. We are pleased that there has been an increase in supply training in recent years, especially in visual team sports, and there is a reason for the support system. We want as many young people as possible to find their role models in these sports, as many young people as possible to start playing sports. Thank God that now there is no need to run abroad for role models, and there is no need to monitor different results that can only be considered internationally, but there is a Hungarian sport worth being proud of, and there are results. If it doesn't go so well, we still have to be there, and we have to encourage young people to take part in this, to help create national pride, because sportsmen and community sports experience are the foundation of national pride, because I am not only talking about professional sport, but also about community sports. That's what we want to support. Thank you very much.
u2022-11-10-192	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There are two-minute speeches coming up. I give the floor to Congresswoman Agnes Vadai, DK Group.
u2022-11-10-193	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Congressman Nacsa is confusing the season with the guy, to be honest. So the fact that we are proud of our Olympic medalists, whatever medals they have won, and whatever rank they have against the participants, is absolutely natural. But I'm sorry, but I don't think you have anything to do with Mrs Szabó having an Olympic silver medal. It has nothing to do with him personally. We're proud of that, but you don't have any achievement in this world personally, and neither do I. So I think that taking this debate in this direction, which is about infrastructure, who is proud of who, I think, is a complete blind spot. There's no such thing in this country, no matter what your party position is, no matter how much you like it or not, who wouldn't be proud of those successes. You like to say that, and especially your propagandaists like to keep putting it out on Facebook that when there's a sporting event, like football, there's some kind of success in a team, the opposition doesn't like that, which is orbital nonsense, and you like to say that. That's not what this law is about. What national pride means to anyone, I think we should leave it to everyone. One is proud of the fact that athletes have achieved results in sport, which means national pride for him, someone proud that someone else has achieved in science, someone who has achieved in everything. However, there are quite a few, at least on this side, we are sure: it certainly does not fill us with national pride, as you govern, especially as you deal with sports infrastructure here. It is quite clear and obvious that you want to invest more and more money into this, into a private limited company, and that the infrastructure there is managed separately, both from the perspective of electricity and district heating. It's an obvious favoritism.
u2022-11-10-194	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I'll give the floor to Congressman Dezső Believer in two minutes. Here you go.
u2022-11-10-195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I was almost sure that my fellow Member Nacsa would immediately grasp the whole point of what I had to say, and then he would come up with it. This happened, and then he tried to accuse me of spreading rumors. Don't worry about people. You know, and now you feel what's going on every day. Don't worry about scaring them here with rumors. Everyone feels very precisely what this is all about. In this case, we are even talking about it, and I also thought that, among you Members, for example, I feel that she is doing her job, she is trying to represent the athletes here, she is doing the right thing. Let's just say he's got a pretty high profile on this case. But I think you should also see that there is much more to it than that. And it's not gonna be easy for this agency if you try to make these stadiums more exploitable. Unfortunately, these stadiums are built for football; this should be multifunctional. Today, these stadiums are used to have 22 people four times a month, if you count assistants and judges, 30 people play sports in them. This is not a sports facility, and two thirds of this is not even Hungarian. So these aren't sports facilities, that's the problem with it, it's a different kind of thing to use it for. Thank you very much.
u2022-11-10-196	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Deputy Minister if he would like to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor.
u2022-11-10-197	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I do not think that if a speech is not short, but it is very long and therefore very long, then at the same time it is a good speech. However, I think that it is a discreet charm for a Member of Parliament to speak, whose party led this country between 2002 and 2010, accusing this government of destroying the Hungarian Defence Forces while they destroyed the Hungarian Defence Forces. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I am specific! That's right! Lie to me.]] In particular, as you were a secretary of state in this government, you obviously have a responsibility to do so. [[21.00]] He also claims that we destroyed the defence because between 2010 and 2015 we only financed it by 1 percent of GDP. For the record, this was the result of the destruction of the entire country between 2002 and 2010. So the result was 1 percent. And now we support it by 2 percent. As previously stated, we have now reached 2 percent of GDP. I think it's very clear that it's at least impertinent to say that. I also think that if you read this bill carefully, you can read it, that you are treated separately by the institutions, it does not mean what degrees will be in these institutions. And if you read the Defense Act carefully, you know that the Defense Act does not cover sport, only the Ministry of Defence, the Minister of Defence, is responsible for sport. Congressman Nacsa said that there have been cases in Hungary where another ministry has been responsible for sport. I would like to give an example that there is a European country where the Ministry of Defence is also responsible for sport. And if we start from the lives and duties of soldiers and compare it with the lives of athletes, then we can think of four words: discipline, endurance, commitment and loyalty, but I believe that this can continue freely with many more important words. This also shows how the matter of defence might have something to do with sports. I also think that it may not be necessary to change something because it didn't work out well, but it needs to be changed because it worked well, but we can do it even better. If the institutions for the benefit of the public are maintained by public money, the fact that certain public burdens do not have to be paid simply means that the state does not transfer money from one pocket to another. This does not imply that, for example, there is an exception to the Public Procurement Act. (The chair was appointed by Dr. Lajos Oláh, Vice-President of the Parliament.) In conclusion, I think that this law will create a clear and transparent system. One of its pillars is responsible for running the facilities efficiently and well, and the other pillar is responsible for this National Sports Agency so that it can organize sports events well and in a way that Hungarian athletes can bring new glory to Hungary. And I do not think that the operation of these institutions will be good and effective because its name is this or that word, one of those words or one of those words. So this is a clear, clear and transparent system of sport management and operation. Thank you very much to all the Members who supported and supported you during the vote, and thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-10-198	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Welcome, everyone. We will continue the work of the Parliament. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. A general discussion of the bill amending certain laws relating to the operation of the Hungarian Defence Office will follow until closure. Government referral T/1788. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence, the author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2022-11-10-199	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, There is a war going on in our neighbourhood, and I think it is most important that the Hungarian Defence Forces can perform their tasks accurately and effectively, as accurately and effectively as possible, and be prepared to effectively protect Hungary. Part of this work and task is to ensure that the Hungarian Defence Command and Command System are as flexible as possible. This is reflected in the proposal by the reappearance of the name Honvéd General Faculty. The basic goal is, of course, not simply to rename this top management body, but to complete and finalize the work that we have begun, that the Ministry of Defence and the Hungarian Defence Office are completely separated. This is the particular civilian control that is often misinterpreted and interpreted very often. This is the system of civilian control, the Ministry of Defence is the civilian control, and the Hungarian Defence Office is the enforcer. This step reduces bureaucracy and accelerates and simplifies the decision-making process. On 1 November 2022, with partial detachment, the Central Command Force Commands were established, which reduce the administrative burden, and the Honvéd Chiefs are the top-level strategic leader, and the non-military headquarters direct the preparation of the subordinates for the implementation of their tasks arising from the basic order of the Hungarian Defence Office. This is a decisive step in operational responsiveness, operational work and bureaucracy reduction. Therefore, when determining law and jurisdiction, the name Honvéd General Faculty also appears on a legal level, and it is also necessary to transpose it into the law. This is what happens in T/1788. Law No. 1. I would ask my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-10-200	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Mr Simon Miklós, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-11-10-201	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The bill before us has two main objectives. One is the amendment of national defence laws affected by the rules on renewable protection and security, and the other is the renaming of the Honvéd High Command into the Honvéd Command. I would like to briefly speak on both subjects. As has already been said in many previous debates, the major legislative changes underlying the new defence and security system entered into force on 1 November. Some minor corrections are now needed in relation to these new rules. I would just like to highlight a few examples. Organisations involved in security and security activities will be required to prepare a conservation economic plan in the future. Rules for the adoption and application of the urban and territorial emergency response plan are defined. The operation of the National Event Management Centre will be subject to a government decision. The staff of constitutional judges and offices shall fulfil their duties in order to fulfil their civil protection obligations. I am sure that we will continue to encounter a number of similar changes to the application of the new rules. [[21.10]] With regard to the re-introduction of the name Honvéd General Faculty, I would note that this bill does not introduce structural changes. The current headquarters structure separate from the Ministry of Defence remains unchanged. In my view, this amendment is justified both by tradition and by practicality. The names of the Joint Chief of Staff and the Chief of Staff are deeply rooted in the Hungarian language and mentality of defence. They are also easier to interpret in international communication. At the very end of the previous parliamentary term, when the ministry administration and the administration of the defence were separated, it seemed obvious that we would support this serious step with a change of name. However, experience has led legislation towards the current amendment. This proposal implements the introduction of the old-new name in the relevant legal places. I would also like to mention the introduction of the military national security service's credentials and badges as an interesting and important detail. Several minor amendments of a legal nature are included in this proposal. I believe that the provisions of the bill before us are eligible. The Fidesz fraction, of course, supports the proposal, and I also ask for the support of my fellow Members. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-11-10-202	Thank you, Mr President, for your comment. I now give the floor to Agnes Vadai, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2022-11-10-203	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, So I didn't think I'd have to look around at the National Assembly at 9:12 p.m. to see that there's a Candid camera, and that's part of some reality show that the Secretary of State and the representative of the ruling party, Congressman Simon, represented in the defence portfolio, have performed here. Fellow Members! You just insulted me because I was talking about the activities and activities of the Hungarian Defence Office and the defence portfolio, and now you are talking to me about what we are talking about here, and then in the next bill, and then we will talk about the very important issues related to the transformation of the Ministry of Defence and the Hungarian Defence. Well, I have to withdraw my statement that it is difficult for Mr. Secretary of State to talk about sports, because he talked about sports facilities law for exactly 48 seconds more than he did about the military law that belonged to his portfolio. I think it's very important that we talk about these issues seriously, but I'm sorry that what you guys are saying here was a burlesque. So I've never experienced this before, and believe me, for the last 20 years, you've been sitting in that chair, and especially for the last 12 years, there have been ministers of state sitting in that chair who, to say the least, only if they spoke and asked a question, it was burlesque on its own. I think that what you have said here, Mr Secretary of State, as the author of this law, is simply beneath criticism. He began by saying that this current bill and this amendment are of particular importance because there is a war going on in our neighbourhood and that the Hungarian Defence Forces can perform their activities even better, so you are renaming the Hungarian Defence Command to Honvéd Chief of Staff. Well, are you serious, Mr. Secretary? I'd like to draw your attention to something small, but more important. His name was Honvéd Chief of Staff, and he was called Chief of Staff. Only in your previous government, the former minister came here and said it wasn't good. And so he renamed him as the commander of the Hungarian Defence Command and terminated the integrated staff, the Joint Chiefs of Staff integrated into the Ministry of Defence. You started talking about civilian control here, that's exactly what you charged when it was lifted. Now this is what happened: In July 2022, the general, Don, gave the order to re-establish the Honvéd General's Choir. And since you knew that the Prime Minister was somewhat mistaken about these things, because he has a military staff, but not his name, you have now come in here with this bill, and you are saying that it is something orbitally important to rename the Hungarian Defence Command to Honvéd General Choir, because in doing so, the Hungarian Defence Forces will be much more resistant to the Russian aggression that the Russians have taken over, and they have attacked Ukraine. But I'm sorry, Secretary of State, but I'm happy to talk to you about the things of the Hungarian Defence Service, but I find this to be unworthy of the defence wallet and the Hungarian Defence Office. Especially the Hungarian Army. I would add that you may have to discuss that with Congressman Nacsa, because I understand that his faction leader had an extremely important request that he be reinstated as Honvéd Chief of Staff and not as the Hungarian Defence Command. So there is a KDNP faction leader wish, then in July there is a Prime Minister's order, and you come here and try to demonstrate that this is almost, I don't know, such a huge program, such a huge development, with this name and renaming, the galactic war can be fought by the Hungarian Defence Office. It's quite outrageous, and I can't tell you, this attitude is penetrately impertinent. In addition, I would like to tell you that this is very good, that the Hungarian Defence Commander will now be renamed Honvéd Chief of Staff, and that he will soon be the head of the Prime Minister's Military Office. Because he will be the real military leader, and the political leader has long since been at the defense purse, I have indicated this in the previous bill, and I have been very clear: you have been sitting in the last few years, and with the greatest calmness, you have been looking at how he is taking it, organizing around himself organisations and units that are important for the defence of the country. Military procurement: I mentioned the abolition of civilian control, and despite the fact that this is a bureaucracy reduction, Mr. Secretary, it is not so, and you know it. There is a duplication in Székesfehérvár precisely because this separation has been done, because everyone wants to boss around there too, especially the leadership wants to boss around, and so the duplication that I noted earlier in the merger started, and you supported it, and the merger reduced this bureaucracy. And civil control was basically eliminated, as in previous cycles, with you never being willing to give any essential information to the Defence and Police Committee, the pro-government members of the committee were just raising their hands there, not pressing buttons on everything, anything they put in front of them, because they didn't think it was necessary to ask whether it was right or wrong. The Office of Defence Administration has been transferred to Antal Rogán, and now there is an increase in national security, while this was clearly also dealt with by the defense wallet, and the National Event Manager is also at Antal Rogán, and he is also an extraordinary expert in these matters. We cannot say now, and I would like to stress where the developments in the military industry are, because they have been with Minister Palkovic, but we no longer know that Minister Vane Palkovics has. We don't even know if he still has a ministry, but, well, we'll find out sooner or later. But yesterday's decision with the Prime Minister's Military Office, frankly, puts everything in parentheses. You have long been under political guardianship, and by now the Prime Minister is setting up an office to follow the tasks of the Hungarian Defence Forces, in essence, the military leadership is also under guardianship. I would like to stress that it is indeed very important, and I would like to say this to Mr Simon, that defence staff from the Military Security Service will be given a card and a badge. [[21.20]] I'd like to ask you why you didn't think of that before. It's basic! The truth is that this amendment in this bill shows your usual sloppy and incompetent legislation. This is the only way you can codify such matters, while at least I think that, on matters relating to the protection of your country, you should once create a proper, good law, perhaps on a national basis, although I do not expect you to see us as part of the nation, because you do not, nor do you, care about our opinion. The opposition factions were called to negotiate before, and the end was that when we didn't support the proposal, you argued that we were there for the discussion. But talking and actually influencing the bill are two different things. You have tabled a bill that you, Mr Secretary of State, have said that without this bill, the Hungarian Defence Office will not work here. Do you know what this is about? They rename the Hungarian Defence Command or rename the Hungarian Defence Command to Honvéd Chief of Staff, the Hungarian Defence Commander to Chief of Staff, and the KNBSZ defence staff receive a badge and ID, which they have not received in any way, and Rogán Antal's Event Management Center is being fine-tuned and handled. And then you're gonna have to do it here for a little while, obviously not as long as you did at sports facilities in three minutes and two seconds. Once again, I would like to emphasise here, otherwise it does not matter what kind of amendment this type of amendment is being tabled, the Prime Minister's decision yesterday overrides everything. Everything! The Prime Minister's Special Military Bureau is special, not his name, but special military office... Interestingly, he doesn't have a social welfare office, he doesn't have an education office, he doesn't have a health office, he doesn't have an environmental office, but he does have a military office. On the one hand, this Military Office will carry out a follow-up to the implementation and operation of the activities of the Hungarian Defence Office and the Ministry of Defence, and will verify in Hungarian that they carry out the tasks they have issued themselves. Furthermore, this Military Office controls the planned implementation of military and defence industrial development strategies and programmes. It would be worth talking about, because I would be terribly curious, but obviously I don't need to hear it from you, because you don't know anything, but I would be terribly curious to know what the Prime Minister's intention is. I do not understand very well that, apart from wanting to get involved and verify the operation of the Hungarian Defence Office and the defence portfolio, what the Minister and the Secretary of State are doing then, but what does this Military Office want as a leadership intention, or what the Prime Minister intends to do with the defence industrial development strategy. Because if we were to talk about this issue, and in this case there is a bill, it would be a meaningful discussion about the activities and operation of the Hungarian Defence Office and the operation of the defence portfolio. But the fact that you are playing the crossfather, and I don't think in the Donian sense, not in the Don Corleone sense, but in the renaming of institutions and renaming institutions, the Hungarian Defence Command is renamed Honvéd General, and we are talking about this in the Hungarian Parliament, and how should I put it? It's a pretty grotesque performance, I don't get it. And I also don't understand why Antal Rogán's proposal of the Secretary of State for Defence is conducive to his activities. Why doesn't Antal Rogán come here if he wants something for the National Event Management Center, because it doesn't belong to you, Mr. Secretary of State. This doesn't belong to you either. In the past, the defense wallet knows, in those eight years, although you certainly hadn't read the suggestions and ideas about the operation of the defence wallet at the time, it worked in a slightly different way. And since you were talking about how many terrible things happened in those eight years and why I am personally responsible, I would like to tell you, Mr Secretary of State, that between 2010-15 and here you should not listen to Congressman Nacsa, because he was not so good in mathematics as he spent 1 percent of GDP on the Hungarian Defence Office, and that was less than 1 percent 0.9, even 0.88. 0.88 is less than 1.2. I know it's complicated, and in your world of Orbán it's very difficult to understand these, and they're putting in laws where there's a baptism, where they rename organizations where they're handing out badges, and they're regulated by the Military National Security Service, I would like to stress it again, because the legislative procedure is sloppy, careless and inadequate. I would add that HM and BM are still one of the better ones. If someone looks at these kinds of bill proposals from other wallets, they see that there is a legislative committee meeting, but unfortunately, I've been sitting at a defense committee meeting, where we've improved spelling for hours because they couldn't even solve it. There are times when there is a codification problem in an international treaty, because they cannot solve it. But the fact that you didn't think that there were civilians working for the Military National Security Service, and that wasn't regulated, I wouldn't say that, Mr. Congressman Simon, although he obviously, as Vice-President of the Defence Committee, has a great deal of insight into this area, but it's not an interesting thing, you know? That's not an interesting thing. You have more insight, since I am not a member of the Defence and Police Committee, there is no need to be offended by the fact that I have just made a positive statement, but if that is a problem, then I will not comment on Mr Simon or you. I had to push myself, to be honest, to do that. All in all, I can say that this bill, and what you two have put forward here, is quite outrageous, and the way it is presented and the content it has been said separately. It's a rename. According to Mr. Simicskó's request, the Prime Minister ordered a christening. From now on, the commander of the Hungarian Defence Forces will be the Chief of Military Staff again, and nothing will change. The structure stays the same, nothing changes, it stays the same. There will be no civilian control in the same way. It's gonna be a positive thing: Military Homeland Security personnel get a badge that they belong to the CBI. Well, it's a shame what you two have shown me, and I'm sure Congressman Nacsa will join us... [[Nacsa Lawrence rises to speak.]] You've already stood up to this shame. Thank you very much.
u2022-11-10-204	Thank you. I give the floor to Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-11-10-205	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I'll be happy to take a mathematics test with Mrs. Vadai, that she went to mathematics in peace... Madam Congresswoman, if we are talking about mathematics, my question is that it is 26 000 billion forints less or 36 000 billion forints less. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Depends on...]] You know, in 2009... I understand that it depends on you, that's how Sukoro had it, and in a lot of places, the numbers and zeros weren't always right. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Pairs! There's a pair of odds!]] It was the same at the confiscated Little Fork that the numbers did not always match when it had to be bought out cheaply and built a pool. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: What does that have to do with me? Do I mind your business?! The president's ringing the bell.]] GDP was HUF 26,000 billion in 2009 and HUF 36,000 billion in 2014, only what percentage of what was money. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó intervenes.]] So did we spend more on defense than you did, or didn't we spend more? [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: But less in proportion! Don't do math.]] Since we spent more... I'll tell you, in 2013, GDP was HUF 30 000 billion, in 2009 it was HUF 26 000 billion and in 12 it was HUF 29! So it was more than in your time, so one percent is more. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]]
u2022-11-10-206	Ladies and gentlemen, Don't play this math contest now, please. [[Nacsa Lárinc: Fakton!]] It's a fakton! Then mathematics fakton, as Congressman Nacsa suggested. Congressman, please continue.
u2022-11-10-207	Thank you. One more thing. Mrs Vadai said in the previous debate that our understanding of the text and reading were wrong. I did read something wrong because I read that the author is the Ministry of Defence, but it turns out that Ágnes Vadai is the author, because he knows what is in this law, and he knows it better than the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence. So it turns out that Agnes Vadai is the author of this bill. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Then vote for him.]] Congresswoman! You know that, because the initiated expert on this subject was already involved in Hvt. that the commander of the Hungarian Defence Corps was also in charge of the military chief of staff, so he did not cease to exist again. So the commanding officer of the Hungarian Defence Corps has already filled the position of Chief of Staff of the Hungarian Defence Corps. I'd really like to say a few more things to you before you go. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai, standing up from his seat as a representative: I'm not leaving, I just have to get up.]] [[21.30]] My fellow Members have talked about decision-making operativity and speed, which you could have read very clearly from this law, about the creation of a central level of command of the army, which thus relieves the leadership of the Joint Chiefs and leaves enough room, time, energy and attention to take strategic decisions. That is the speed of decision and the operativity, honourable Member. But to rewind the wheel of time a little bit, because you were so looking forward to telling us that you and Ferenc Gyurcsány ruined the Hungarian Defence Forces, so that I could list only a few numbers, Madam honourable Member, because I was prepared to say these numbers, honourable Member. Between 2002-2010, but of course it also goes to Mr Harangozó, because as a member of the MSZP and as a Member of Parliament, he is also a kind of spiritual heir to this government, because his fellow party led the roads and all the horrors, and between 2002 and 2010, the number of defences fell by 17 thousand, honourable Member. They sold 50,000 war equipments, handguns, protective equipment, uniforms. Between 2002-2010, 500 tracked combat vehicles were removed from use, mostly sold 140 artillery devices and donated 77 T-72 tanks. You have not only caused loss of prestige and geopolitical redevelopment, but also lack of competence and incompetence. Self-propelled artillery devices were sold for a fraction of the market price at that time, essentially for the price of iron, even though they are now using such weapons in the war next door. After less than ten years of use, the T-72 trucks purchased during the Horn government came to Iraq as a gift, from which it was that one of the honourable Members, who had been given back as a weapon of the Islamic State, had returned. The left-wing amok run included the elimination of two shooting squads, a fire brigade and an anti-aircraft missile regiment. They didn't spare the hinterland, because you closed down the Honvéd Hospital in Pécs and sold the properties of the János Bolyai Military Technical College, even in the hinterland. By 2010, the left-wing government had the minimum protection force in multiple citations thanks to your blessing. Special thanks to Ferenc Gyurcsány and Ágnes Vadai. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: I serve my country!]] We can't even begin to think about what would have happened if such a left-wing government had to face such threats, such as the 2015 migration crisis, or even in a war situation in our neighbourhood, that if a military force had to face them, which you destroyed, of course, you would have sent a weapon to Ukraine in the meantime. It's a completely inverted left-wing logic. So the weapons of the Hungarian Army are being sold because they do not have to, but in a neighbouring country they would send weapons to war. It's a very specific left-wing logic. Now, the Zrinyi defence and military development programme launched in 2016 has proved to be the right decision, as the development and modernity of the forces in this region has become a critical issue. Under the Zrinyi program, the military purchased two A319 Airbuss, 218 Lynx infantry vehicles, 11 multifunctional radars, anti-aircraft missile systems, Leopard tanks and PZH 2000 taracks. The programme is also, and this is very important to us, you look down on it again, it is also developing the domestic military industry. You're closed, and we're open. Gyula is a helicopter component factory, a Várpalota ammunition factory, a Lynx factory in Zalaegerszeg. They also bring back the domestic military industry and create jobs for Hungarian people, honourable Member. As of August again, Gripens will be responsible for the Baltic airspace protection. Thanks to the development of the government's forces, Hungarian soldiers serve in professional equipment and absolute professional performance and carry out missions throughout the world, for example in the Balkans. We'll be talking about it here in Parliament soon. Finally, my fellow Members, I would like to say that after the marked destruction of Gyurcsány-Vadai, I think that slowly and slowly the Hungarian Defence Forces will regain their old reputation again. That's what military development is for. This is the purpose of the modernisation of the operation of the Hungarian Defence Forces. This is the purpose of the development of the military industry, which is what the complex development and defence development packages we have had the opportunity to negotiate here several times in recent years, and which you have seen on several occasions. I think that this is the right direction, not the destruction you have done, so we will support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-11-10-208	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Tamás Harangozó, the lead speaker of the MSZP group. Here you go.
u2022-11-10-209	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I was astounded as I was listening to Mr. Secretary of State's exposé, because, by the way, you were shocked to read this bill, but we thought we might come in here and see if the Secretary of State would say something about it, why it was submitted, or what the point was, or why it was. Especially because you have only written to justify the proposal that the Hungarian Defence Command will transform Honvéd into the Chief of Staff. Not a rename. That's what it says about your makeover. Now, there's a lot of stuff in this bill, but there's no naughty sentence about the conversion of the defense. By the way, the whole law in general only makes sense to show how (a) you are chaotically controlling and managing the military as a government and as a Parliament over the past period; two, how much they pity the institution called the Hungarian Parliament. They're not just emptying it, they're making a complete fool of this institution. As of 1 January 2019, they reorganized and renamed what is now being renamed. Then, on 14 December 2021, Parliament adopted the new Defense Act, which would have entered into force on 1 July 2023, but now, in the summer of 2022, it was quickly voted by the Parliament to enter into force on 1 November, which, by the way, has the opposite of what is in this law. This entered into force on 1 November. That's what's happening now. No Honvéd Chief of Staff, no Honvéd Chief of Staff. That's what they're gonna do, and first of all, we're standing here, I remember, on October 26th, and in a domestic salad law, which was 166 pages, of which the name Honvéd General Arm is first published as a one-word, hidden suggestion. And then I'm gonna ask the Secretary of State here to help us read this aside, you've miswritten it, or you're up to something again by the Defense Committee, I'm just saying, partner, you don't know anything again, nothing, nobody's talking, nobody's telling me what you're up to, or some kind of codification problem. I'm sure everyone's as quiet as that one. Then this bill arrives one or two days before the entry into force of November 1. This is ridiculous what you're doing with this. I don't think it's worthy of the Hungarian Defence Service, by the way. I'm guessing the least of their problems is who you call what and where you rename the leadership, who you please. It's true about the World. No one knows anything about it again. We learn from a government decree or resolution that everything will be placed under Minister Rogán, I add, taken from you under the law, and which I am very surprised by the internal affairs, a lot of substantive powers, and then Antal Rogán will conduct not only the bombs on the billboards, but now, through their acquisition and systematic preparation for all kinds of danger in Hungary, defence and security activities. I would like to congratulate the Minister of Defence and the Minister of the Interior on this. But I think that this is the same process that we are seeing perfectly in the last few days, that we all suspected that Viktor Orbán would invent everything, but we didn't think that he really did everything, and that he now wants to lead the Hungarian Defence Service, the procurements, and the secret services, of course, also the most important areas of internal affairs. We've seen times like this in history. Let me not mention when, for example, there was a Prime Minister's Military Office in Hungary's history and what a great, successful function it had during that time of distress. Now that you have to reach back to it, I think it's also talkative. But the point, my fellow Members, Mr Secretary of State, is that there is a three-minute exposure to the law on the very important transformation of the Hungarian Defence Forces, but what is not in this law should be discussed. [[21.40]] What do you mean, yesterday or the day before yesterday? will a government decree be issued to create, as I have said, a military office, which, by the way, carries out tasks related to the implementation and monitoring of the functions of the Ministry of Defence and the Hungarian Defence Agency? What? ! And this is in a government decree? And we're here to discuss a defense law, so to speak, parliamentaryly, that they're renaming someone, while they're introducing a real control and leadership brutal change of authority in a government decree, and we're here tonight having fun with what they're gonna call him, Commander or Chief of Staff? Isn't it a shame, Mr. Secretary, for this institution and for the military leaders sitting across from it, as well as for all the soldiers? So tell me, Mr. Secretary, what will it mean that the Office of the Prime Minister will carry out tasks related to the implementation and monitoring of the tasks of the Ministry of Defence and the Hungarian Defence Office next to it? What kind of relationship is this going to have with the defense minister? What kind of relationship will this have with the Joint Chiefs? Who's gonna run who around here, how, on what basis? It also monitors the planned implementation of the forces and defence industrial development strategies and programmes. Well, the most interesting thing is what the intention of leadership is, obviously, whether it relates to substance or sum, I leave it to everyone's imagination, and also how it will affect the powers of the Ministry of Defence that may still exist or go back, how it will be affected by the TIM or ITM, or now I don't even know what it's called, the Palkovics... [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: No more Palkovics!]] You almost had the authority of your Ministry's former minister? Is it true that the implementation...? I would like you to answer these questions, Mr Secretary of State, if you have the information, and perhaps you can say anything in your own hands here in Parliament. Is it true that the military office directly managed by him, i.e. the Prime Minister, had to be set up because military development programmes based partly on interstate agreements were blocked? Is it true that conflicts of interest between the wallets responsible for implementation hindered the implementation of the plans? Is it true that this is one of the reasons why László Palkovics resigned? Is it true in the press that the Military Office not only manages the implementation of military development tasks, but will it have direct control over the activities of the Ministry of Defence and the Hungarian Defence Agency? Which, I note quietly, would be contrary to the Basic Law. And is it true, or does that mean that, as I've been telling you, the Prime Minister practically took control of the Hungarian Defence and the Ministry of Defence simply outlawed and passed the law? These are the questions, Mr. Secretary, to which we must answer now, because this decision has just been made, and they matter, these decisions, as opposed to these renamings and the Defense Procurement Act, I don't know, what is it? I don't know, it doesn't matter if it's a week or two weeks after its entry into force, and the very kind colleagues will have a nice new I.D. It's a very important question. But I think it's a thousand times more important question of what's really going on, what's going on with the government and leadership of the defence, why the Prime Minister felt that he had to do this. We've run out of trust, procurement stalls, force reform isn't going that way, you don't trust your own ministers, you don't trust the general's staff, or why you need to take direct control of this area now, and what does that mean? To what level can the Prime Minister direct, control or drive through his own office? Now, these are questions to which we would like to know the answer, Mr Secretary of State, and I cannot go further, because this is a process that you are doing, a ninth amendment of the basic law, a new law on defence, new emergency or new rules on emergency law, which has now entered into force on 1 November. I remind everyone, since 1 November, to declare a state of emergency in Hungary does not have to be an act of violence against the overthrow of the constitutional order. So anyone who's organized against the constitutional order, so to speak, and then you'll tell me who that is, we, say, the teachers and the children, are those... [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Come on! Dr. Agnes Vadai: Nana!]] I understand that, but it's in the law that you will decide, Mr. Nacha, and you won't be the one to decide, and if someone goes crazy and decides that you will nod here and assist him, or we'll see if you have the guts to stand up and say, "Well, so far, and no more." But the legal framework was created, and it was also removed from the Fundamental Law and the Defense Act, that in this case soldiers could only be used against their own citizens if police, law enforcement and secret service equipment were not sufficient, this was also taken out. So, in principle, the Hungarian Defence Office can be used against its own population since 1 November, while a government decree comes a few days later, referring to the emergency situation, that, by the way, the Prime Minister takes control of everything in one person. But what content...? Are you talking about the rule of law here? Well, we don't even know what this PM's office is like, what he can afford or what he can't afford. It's got two sentences in it. We can imagine, in an informal way, that if the Prime Minister answers the phone, then about what will happen in the Ministry of Defence, but this is now the case in an institutional way, and I am really sorry here, but here goes the rip-off about renaming it or not renaming it, while such important organizational changes are actually happening, only by not respecting the Hungarian Parliament by bringing it in here and not telling us why it is actually doing it and what the content of it is. And allow me to do so after 12 years of experience, and after the amendment of the previous bill I have told you, not to look at this matter with great confidence. So, Secretary of State, why did you need the office? Is there a confidence crisis? The purchases... [[Tamás Vargha: You have to read it!]] I read it, I read it to you, it doesn't tell you anything, it doesn't tell you anything. [[Tamás Vargha: English!]] Two sentences. [[Tamás Vargha intervenes.]] It says that the Hungarian Defence Forces and the Ministry of Defence can be led by the Prime Minister. [[Tamás Vargha: It's not in there!]] By implementing it... by monitoring its operation... it performs tasks, that's right! [[Tamás Vargha: The tracker, it doesn't control, let me get this straight.]] And the strategies for military and defence industrial development... I would also ask you once again: there is a crisis of confidence [[Tamás Vargha: No!]] the procurements are stuck, or there's a reason why this... [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Who's run it so far?]] The Secretary of Defense... [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Who controls his activities?]] The government. You know the difference? [[Nacsa Lawrence: Yes.]] You know what? But that's why you don't understand the difference, doesn't it? No! So you really don't get it, do you? What it is to be a government and what it is to be a Prime Minister [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] What is it that a man decides everything in this country (Lőrinc Nacsa intervenes) And what is that when there are institutions and bodies, you have no idea. He was socialized in this, and you like it, and I don't, and when things went in this direction in our little story, in our history, or in the history of another country in Europe, it always ended in tears, as I said many times. No one is omnipotent. And by the way, we don't think these solutions are legal, plus we don't think they even comply with their own Fundamental Law. But we can put that aside, and I'm interested in one thing: why did we have to do that? 'Cause if everything's okay, I'm sure that's not necessary. And if this is what is needed, because there is a problem, then we should talk about these institutional changes being made and why they are doing it, and by the way, the Hungarian Parliament has something to do with it or not. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-11-10-210	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Zoltán Sas, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-11-10-211	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, Dear House, The Secretary of State referred to the Russian-Ukrainian war in his leadership, and in this regard I would like to say that the protection of the country, the accurate knowledge of the state of the defence and the forward-looking professional developments have been an important aspect for me, and I am convinced that it has been an important aspect for all of us. In the current security environment, which we can safely say is extremely hostile, especially justified by the development of the Hungarian army, it is quite clear that our country, which belongs to NATO's federal system, needs a powerful, modern army to protect its national interests and to carry out NATO's tasks arising from the federal system. However, in order to get to the presentation, a recent change of the management system took place, where the Honvéd Chief Choir became the Hungarian Defence Command, where the transformation was also justified by improving efficiency. The question is whether this present proposal is a renaming, perhaps a reshaping, or the beginning of another restructuring. If only the redirection of titles, but the content and management elements do not change, we can get used to it, as this is how the county and the Archbishops have been found, at least not so long ago. The submission of October 2018 came from Dr. Tibor Benkő, then Minister of Defence, and T/3291. The House has discussed this. [[21.50]] From the perspective of several years, perhaps before we begin another transformation, it would be worth reviewing what we have done, what we have done since this transformation. I'm going to quote from the proposal that your government was trying to liquidate and transform the system at that time. The Minister only controls the Hungarian Defence Forces, and the Hungarian Defence Commander would lead it. That'll break up control and leadership. The Hungarian Defence Army's military leadership would be separated from the Ministry of Defence, as the leading body of the Hungarian army, the Hungarian Defence Command would be set up as an independent military organization, the Ministry of Defence would not be part of the Hungarian Defence Service, it would act as a purely central government administration body, and the Minister would exercise control over the Hungarian Defence Forces. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, This transformation has been carried out, voted by pro-government representatives. Perhaps it would be worth talking a little about the fact that the practical experience has confirmed that this transformation has had its advantages, it was justified, it was necessary, is it an effective organisation? Are we talking about a functional system, or have you found any errors or possibly systemic errors that justify redesigning the management of the Hungarian Defence Forces, if any, and is that why today's presentation is on the agenda? I would also like to quote the general justification presented during the previous transformation:. The current management and management system contains several internal contradictions. The question has been raised as to whether this contradiction, as expressed in the Constitutional Court's decision, has been resolved in recent times, and the change in the current legislation will not create this problem again. It is also quoted from the proposal made at the time, which changed the entire management system at the time:. The leadership of HM below the ministerial level, its two-headedness, can cause conflicts of competence. Has this finding been made and there have been conflicts of competence, and have you managed to eliminate these conflicts of competence or even the possibility of that in recent years? On January 10, 2019, Dr. Tibor Benkő said, "The command of a strong Hungarian Defence Command must be established and operated, which is able and ready to complete the tasks defined by the law, but this requires a strong ministry capable of controlling the command. That's how the Minister put it. Here, too, the question is whether the Minister's objective has been achieved, and the Hungarian Defence Command has made it fit for the full implementation of the tasks of the law, perhaps the first step of the current change discussed is the transformation that has not been granted, which has resulted from the failure to achieve this objective? Overall, it would be good to see the real reason, to know the circumstances that led to the transformation, and, of course, it would not be a disadvantage if we, opposition representatives, were also aware of the goals that have been set and are realistic. I have already indicated, and I am telling you now that it would be worth involving us in the work at least through the committees, not only with gestures, but also with legitimacy, here I stress, I am talking about meaningful work. I know they're not forced to do it, but maybe that's why they could be generous and do it, like they did before. The submission shall be made in accordance with paragraphs 3 and 9 of this Article. The draft simplifies the possibility of transfer from the contractual staff of law enforcement agencies to the Hungarian Defence Office. I believe that this part of the proposal is a good direction, moving towards the interoperability of the system. The importance of vocational training must obviously also be taken into account in such cases. Many have already said, and I also mention that the proposal also regulates the provision of a service certificate and a badge to professional members of the Military National Security Service, which is welcome and clearly necessary and justified for the performance of their duties, and we hope that this lack has not put their work at risk so far. Finally, if the real purpose of the draft is solely to rename or rename the Hungarian Defence Command to Honvéd General Choir, or the Hungarian Defence Commander to the Honvéd Chief of Staff, then we could say that the name does not matter, but the content, and the Minister, if you like, can call this position and this organization. But should this change of name serve the long-term strategic goals of the defence? Perhaps you have studied the international perception of the Hungarian defence because of the proposed name change: will it benefit you, or can anyone think that the leaders of the Hungarian Defence Service can't even decide who to call? Thank you so much for listening.
u2022-11-10-212	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Novak Elok, the lead speaker of the group of our country. Here you go.
u2022-11-10-213	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Mr. Vice-General, Unfortunately, in 2019 the National Assembly terminated the Honvéd General Faculty, instead became the Hungarian Defence Command, and is now renamed Honvéd General Faculty. However, this is an amazing replacement act, which we do not understand why they do not deal with the shortage of military personnel, recruitment, which they have not been able to solve for example for years, decades, and I could list the critical areas of the defence, but perhaps it would not be good for everyone to hear them, even for the greatest pleasure of secret services. However, we can talk about what is already before us, and how sad it is that, even after the introduction of a military commitment, the actual military service for defence workers would be an optional option under this proposal. Indeed, it is here before us that the defence employee can voluntarily undertake to carry out effective military service following the introduction of the military commitment. And if that wasn't absurd enough, it goes on to say that in this case, the defense employee is also required to take part in the training required for military service, which, I think, is absurd because, after the introduction of the military commitment, they will only receive the training that a defense employee might assume they already have, but they do not. It's actually an open confession to that. Another rocky area is the fact that enforcement and notaries are automatically exempt from their defence obligations. That's what I absolutely disagree with. The proposal states that it fulfils its civil protection obligation by fulfilling its job and exercising its public mandate, among others the notary and the bailiff. By the way, it is absurd that both of them are official persons in such a way that both of them actually operate as private entrepreneurs. I think it's okay for executives and notaries to be invited. Nothing gives them the right to favor them. In addition, even after the extermination of the mob scandal, the world didn't stop because the heads of several offices have disappeared, so to speak, and the deputys and employees have solved the cases for them. Although, let's just say our country movement has requested the suspension of the executive mafia, but this has not happened. Now, however, we are also moving forward to initiate the introduction of a moratorium on eviction on new properties in a qualified situation and on a general basis. By the way, let's just think that they're taking, like, family support or just the property owner to the front, and the bank is taking the house for one reason or another. So I think that would be absolutely justified professionally. And then let's talk a little bit, if, by way of exception, the illustrious character of the general's faculty has honored our debate with the fact that, unfortunately, this bill in the defence does not ensure the elimination of this Covid madness. After all, with the police, where the vaccination obligation has been lifted, the military still exists, which is completely absurd. Imagine, let's just say, the U.S.-Russian war in Ukraine, where a Ukrainian soldier would be told that he was unfit because he wasn't vaccinated? ! Is it quite amazing, as is an opportunity to escape the obligation of war if someone does not take the vaccine? In particular, it is absurd that a decommissioning ban has also been introduced in the case of soldiers sent for unpaid leave. So they were supposed to starve and not take any other work, perhaps the worst scandal of the entire Covid dictatorship, which happened specifically in the Hungarian Defence Office, that it was not enough to send them on unpaid leave, they were banned from living, from their profession, from their calling, but, in addition, aggravated by decommissioning bans, aggravated by the ban on taking part in a job, practically telling those who do not want to live with it to die. Unfortunately, once again, we do not see the defence dealing with another big problem, and this is the exclusion of patriots from the Hungarian Defence Service. Unfortunately, after the socialist governments, the current government also continued to consider it a national security risk if someone had been a member of the Hungarian Guard in their past, the Sixty-four Várgye Youth Movement, and we could list these as not even write down bans like Facebook, but we know, according to leaked news, that as early as 2017, for example, the reserveers, I know that as a national security risk, HVM was taught as a patriotic organization, a registered, legitimate organization. [[22.00]] It is a very common practice, and unfortunately Minister Benkő has also previously been reported in vain to examine concrete examples in a written question, and recommending that national radicals only because they went out to an anti-LGBTQP march earlier, or because of similar national manifestations, they simply exclude me from the military, as a matter of national security risk. Unfortunately, this is still a common practice. And when there's a shortage of soldiers like that, you should just accept these excellent patriots instead of throwing them out. Therefore, I would ask both Mr Lt-Gen and Mr Secretary of State once again to investigate these matters. If I have to, I'd be happy to mention specific cases that can be investigated by name as to why they were rejected. It is quite obvious that, unfortunately, patriots are still being persecuted to this day. And finally, since Tamás Harangozó went into another inexpensive alarm, so also in order to protect the reputation of the defence, if Mr. Secretary of State has not pressed a button, he may not even consider it worthwhile, but because he repeats it for the first time, and because they are spreading... They spread so far that thousands of people this year, for example, shared the false rumor that a squad of soldiers would automatically be deployed for a 50 - year demonstration in the future. This year, thousands of people shared, hundreds of thousands of rumors. Even then, I drew attention to the fact that the amendments to the law, which entered into force on 1 July 2023, which, by the way, entered into force earlier on 1 November, did not, or can now be said to have resulted in this. So yesterday we protested in front of the Prime Minister's office, in front of the head of state's office against restrictions, against government lies, obviously there were more than 50 of us, and we weren't shot at, of course. By the way, Tamás Harangozó was not ashamed, as a successor of the MSZMP, to scare him in the parliamentary debate last year during the adoption of this bill, which was essentially repeated in this way, but let me quote it from the minutes. Literally, they allow the Hungarian Defence Forces to be systematically deployed against civilians in peacetime. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: That's right, keep going.]] But you have a former prime minister, Gyula Horn, who holds a gun to Hungarian revolutionaries, so you don't have to run that far, and you don't have to suspect the defence. Our country's defense cabinet is also monitoring possible abuses of the military. In this way, for example, we discovered the abuse of refusing to use the vaccine as a command violation in several places. This has been demonstrated in a report. By the way, under the new laws, the government may order the assistance of the defence to carry out the related police tasks, such as the capture of particularly dangerous persons has become a military task, which raises the legitimate question of where the TEK is at this time. Of course, there have been a number of examples of domestic law enforcement action by police, so let's not pretend this is something completely absurd. Border Patrol is the best known place to serve in a pair of patrols with the police, and in any case, police officers are in charge of patrols, regardless of their rank. However, in order to protect our comrades, let us say and look at some specific examples such as the red sludge disaster. Although disaster control is supposed to work perfectly, the defense just needed it to save it. The famous snow situation in March: OMSZ and the Hungarian road operator are supposed to be very great, but the defence was also needed there. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Of course, it's right!]] Or the flood: even though water management and disaster management are supposed to be very much there, but without the defence, that didn't work either. The question of the southern border: although the police are said to have taken over the role of border guards without any problems, without the military, it seems as though they still fail, although Prime Minister I do not know how many months ago you said that soldiers should practice in barracks and elsewhere, and not defend the border with reference to the war situation in the current neighbouring country. Or finding and highlighting the Mermaid's wreckage: disaster control and TEK supposedly managed the operation perfectly, but it wasn't going without the defence either. Or Covid: the health and vaccinations were supposed to work very well, but they still needed the defense against the virus. Okay, well, it's hard to take that seriously, of course. But I'll tell you more serious matters that the government didn't dare raise. Olaszliszka, Jászapáti, Chenyéte: it is said that in two weeks order has been established, but if our country depended on the Movement, it would also be assigned to the defence in the so-called no-go zones. So, it's not a devil's idea that Tamás Harangozó's earlier suggestion is the military's use in civil matters. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] Let's not scare you. Many times in maintaining the state's operation, there was a need for defence in the field of disaster management. Another issue is that the current government has already and sometimes used the police for political intimidation. For example, a personal example, when last year the police tried to prevent my press conference with a five-man unit reinforced by a machine gunman in Zalaegerszeg presenting the candidate for Parliament of the Hungarian Movement. These were illustrated with photographs. By the way, it was absurdly forbidden to make a statement in front of the Office of the Hungarian Movement, but they could no longer take action in the party room. So the Hungarian Movement is doing everything in its power to ensure that the military, which, unfortunately, socializes in Afghanistan, Iraq and similar occupations, does not serve anti-popular party political purposes, but the nation's cause. Thank you for your attention.
u2022-11-10-214	Thank you. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. Here you go.
u2022-11-10-215	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mr President Novak has started several sentences in such a way as to depend on our country. Well, let's just agree that, thank God, it's not up to our country, so from here on out, we can continue our discussion. Honourable Congressman, If you look at the laws before, for example, about civil protection, then the notary and the bailiff are not in it now, it's already in there. You can argue that it's good or not good. The staff of the Constitutional Court are now included, that is the only novelty, but only then the whole point E is written in the law, honourable Member. It is such an ugly legislative process, and the great evil legislation comes with the whole point to be mentioned, honourable Member, that is why there is this point. At least don't give me any sense of humor in a law amendment that isn't true; what you're saying isn't true, it's that simple. It can be argued that it is good that it is involved or not good that it is involved, but it has included a notary and a court executioner for a thousand years, such as the judge and many other occupations, many other employments are included as an exception from health care. I wanted to respond to Tamás Bellozó, who confuses the following with the "control". So there's a very big text understanding problem. So you're tracking him. The Minister of Defence's boss is the government, and the government is led by the Prime Minister, and earlier, even with Ferenc Gyurcsány, he was included in the Government Statute Decree as now that the Prime Minister determines the general policy of the government and directs its implementation, defines and coordinates the activities of the ministers, in which he can give guidance to ministers in the context of carrying out their activities, and for any minister and other state leaders, Mr State Secretary, the Prime Minister may define a task. This is the case now, and it was four years ago, eight years ago, and 16 years ago, my fellow Members, that the Prime Minister was in charge of the activities of ministers. The government is obviously the main body and the prime minister is the prime minister. So it doesn't control it, it tracks it, it's a basic Hungarian grammatical lesson. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-11-10-216	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We now have further speeches from our representatives. I give the floor to Agnes Vadai, from the DK Group. Here you go.
u2022-11-10-217	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I am sad, but I must say that Congressman Nacsa lied, he lied quite simply. [[Nacsa Lawrence: I don't think so!]] It makes me sad because I thought in your world only traitors, internationalist, serialist mercenaries like they think lie. [[Tamás Vargha: Well said!]] You, who are such good Christian people, who also love sports, who appeal to national pride, never lie. And for you, Congressman, the big deal is that every single sentence you said in 2002-2010 was a net lie. [[Nacsa Lawrence: No!]] Let's take a look, shall we? Just so we're clear. In order to appreciate my activities as Secretary of State, I am very grateful, but I would like to say so. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You're welcome again.]] That people like Tibor Benkő helped our work here, he was the commander of all forces. The other question is, how can I say that I wouldn't say that he has studied, but that he has become a minister in your government. Or László Tömböl, he was the chief of staff, he must remember him, he was replaced, and then, to our greatest surprise, he ended up with Maróth Gáspár. [[22.10]] And I can tell you this: General Kovács, who also helped us professionally, then suddenly found himself next to the Prime Minister as Secretary of State in a suit. And I'd be able to tell you something like that. But Secretary Vargha also had an important task at the time, although it may not be in our time. You speak excellent English, and in this one, we may be similar, if nothing else. You have, of course, contributed to the development and development of the Honvéd General Faculty with your own activities, and we are all very proud of that, adding what was necessary, and it must be that the Hungarian Defence Forces continue to develop. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Where have I lied? Instantly!]] I would like to stress that the missions in which the Hungarian Defence Forces participated were extremely good, useful, and we are very proud of those soldiers, not in 2002, but well before, when they had the chance. Incredibly, this is part of my national pride, but I do not think that I personally had anything to do with those missions. I supported them when I could and had to, I thought they were important, the soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Corps did a very good job. But what you said was that we were handing over brand-new T-72 tanks. [[Nacsa Lőrinc:10 years old!]] I would like to say to you that these T-72 tanks were in Kalocsa, out of the order of war tanks, renovated with American money, and delivered to Iraq in 2005 by NATO, and what is God, when you govern it, it turns out that it is possible that the Islamic State might have taken over. So now we're going to conclude that this came into the hands of the Islamic State during your administration, so you're responsible for this? That's what we can say. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] In terms of numbers, I would like to say to you: In 2000, there were 48 776 Hungarian defences, in 2002 45 thousand, so there was already a decrease. You forgot one thing, and the problem may not have been that you weren't telling the truth, but you forgot that in 2004 the military service in Hungary ceased in peacetime. Although you did not want it, your group leader did not support it, but after the Hungarian citizens thought that they did not want military service in peacetime, they finally voted in favour. You said that in 2010 29 280 was not so much, but this was the total number in 2010. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: So I was telling the truth!]] Wait! 29,280! [[Nacsa Lawrence: 45!]] [[Nacsa Lőrinc: So I was telling the truth!]] Wait! 29,280! (Lőrinc Nacsa: About 45!) 28 830 in 2011 and 28 355 in 2012 (Lőrinc Nacsa: So I was telling the truth!) Congressman, there was less in your time. What did you say? What did you say? [[Lőrinc Nacsa: In your time, it decreased by 17,000!]] But in your time, it's reduced even more! [[Nacsa Lőrinc: But then I was telling the truth!]] No, he wasn't telling the truth, and he wasn't telling the truth because he didn't say that the military service in Hungary ceased in 2004. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: It's gone!]] You made this seem to have reduced numbers because these soldiers, these places, have ceased to exist when the Hungarian Defence Forces have been eliminated, so you lied. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: It's been charged!]] This was done by your representatives, your group leader, who voted in particular, under duress; at that time even the opposition was forced to terminate the military service in peacetime. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: It's done!]] You claimed that you spent more money on the Hungarian Defence Forces in all respects, since GDP was higher. I would like to give you the figures: 248 billion in 2011, 230 billion in 2012, 241 billion in 2013, and 260 billion in 2014 and 2015. The first year the defence budget was over HUF 300 billion during your administration was 2016. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: How much was in 2006?]] In 2006, it was 283 billion. During your governance, in 2011, 248 billion. I'm not going to a mathematics faculty with you, because you clearly don't understand the basic concepts of mathematics. So in the eight years on which you claim to be so, people like László Tömböl, like Tibor Benkő, served the country, I suppose, with integrity, and I recognized them as those who, if they had criticism, expressed it. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: I had the political leadership...]] Well, they were just listening, that's all. They were just listening. I was not the head of that wallet, but I am happy to bear the sweet burden of holding me responsible for everything between 2002 and 2010. It doesn't bother me, we've had a lot of great success, like 2009, Pope. I would like to remind Pope that he surely knows what happened there: among other things, the C-17 programme was implemented with the participation of the two countries which do not specifically support the accession of two countries to NATO. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Yes, we support it!]] [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Yes, we support it!]] They don't support it! (Lőrinc Nacsa: Yes, we support it!) Well, they're obviously lying about that, so they're obviously lying about that, too. All in all, we see and it became very clear in connection with the bill that the most important task for you at the moment in relation to the Hungarian Defence Forces is that the Hungarian Defence Command should be Honvéd General Staff again. This is not a transformation I think Mr Harangozó is absolutely right, and you have even misspelled this in the bill, because you are not redesigning it, but simply renaming it and passing it through a lot of laws. I honestly think that the way the Secretary of State of the Defence Ministry, unlike the Secretary of State of other purses, who may be less important in the case of laws, if necessary, may not agree with him for a long time, that is to say that they are expressing their exposé correctly and with their content... here we have heard from the Secretary of State how important this bill is in terms of the capabilities of the Hungarian Defence Office. In my opinion, it is impertinent to claim against the Hungarian Defence Forces that the Hungarian Defence Forces will be able to fight from the renaming of the Hungarian Defence Command to the Honvéd Chief Choir. The Hungarian Defence Force will not be able to take a swing from it. The Hungarian Defence Office will be able to withstand and withstand the challenge of being the most modern, XXI. It is equipped with a century-old technology when, in addition to territorial protection, issues such as cyberspace challenges are finally dealt with because they are very important when we finally see that our allied commitment is not constantly being undermined. All your foreign policy moves, whether they go to the East or to the West, undermine Hungary's commitment to the European Union and NATO Alliance, and both are important because in the next bill we will be talking about two important missions, one in NATO and the other in the European Union framework. I would honestly like to suggest that this whole proposal, as it is, should be forgotten, so let it go, because this is really embarrassing. If you are with the Hungarian Defence Agency... right, it is called:. The bill on the amendment of certain laws relating to the operation of the Hungarian Defence Forces, so if you would like to submit a bill here in this context, then first ask the head of the Prime Minister's Military Office, because he will give you the guidance. And it is possible to say here, Mr President, that it is management and supervision, and I think the point is the leadership intention in terms of investment in the military industry, and this is in the Hungarian Gazette, the intention of leadership, and the follow-up to the implementation and functioning of the tasks of the Ministry of Defence and the Hungarian Defence. Follow-up! In English: what's happening? The political leadership, which didn't matter much in the previous term, was completely clear, so it didn't matter who the minister was; they are now trying to secure the military leadership of the Hungarian Defence Forces. [[22.20]] I do not, by the way, share the concern of those, which I would like to stress not the concerns about the amendment of the basic law, which is being observed by constitutional lawyers, who are far more qualified than I and myself, who think that the members of the Hungarian Defence and Hungarian police would stand up to protesters today. But I don't share this concern because I don't think you can do this, you can do anything. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Come on!]] That's why I don't share this concern. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: It was only in your time!]] Because the Hungarian Army is sworn to the country. While you like to confuse yourselves with your country, I experience this very often. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Swording, eyeballing!]] and others may experience it, especially when the Hungarian Prime Minister refers to himself as Hungary and refers to himself as Hungary, but the soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Forces and the Hungarian police are sworn to the country. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: It was ugly that they were directed against people!]] And you don't report your country, your country means all of us, and that's why I don't share the concern of those who fear that your political and permanent emergency status, which you're very fond of, is this kind of... I can't explain why they always want to create an emergency situation or some extraordinary legal situation. Your prime minister probably has such an unquenchable desire. He, as I indicated earlier, likes the Carmelite administration alone, and he only keeps you to press the button when it is necessary. We could run this country very well without it. Moreover, there are two thirds of them in Parliament, thanks to the fact that the electoral law has been transformed in such a way that it has consistently resulted in two thirds for you since 2014. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Thanks to the voters! Tamás Vargha: The voters, not the law!]] But you must not forget one thing: you are responsible for keeping the Hungarian police and the Hungarian defences loyal to their country. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: 2006! Tamás Vargha intervenes.]] You can't use it, even if you have a political need. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Eyeshot!]] , and they have a political need for the Hungarian Defence Forces to be deployed on domestic soil. We have had countless debates about whether, for example, the deployment of the Hungarian Defence Forces beyond the border was constitutionally correct. No, because the Hungarian police were supposed to carry out that task, it was the Hungarian police's job. But it is not up to you, and it is not up to your political sobriety, it is up to the Hungarian Defence Staff alone, that there are problems, I sincerely hope, that we will not have to face what Mr Bellozó spoke of. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Or what we saw in 2006!]] Once again, I would like to say to you that the defence wallet has unfortunately lost its political significance. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You have your time! Laughing in the box behind Fidesz and KDNP.]] The Secretary of Defense... [[Interjection: Your time is up!]] Yours will be too soon. [[They're pointing from the box behind Fidesz and KDNP to the president.]] Minister of Defence, Chief of Staff [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And the commander of the Hungarian Defence Forces is the Prime Minister, he tells you what to do.
u2022-11-10-218	Thank you. No further comments were received. The general debate is closed. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai, pointing to the box behind Fidesz and KDNP, tell them not to speak from there. Don't yell out of the box. Foreman Novak: Do not criticize the sitting.]] With all due respect, I know it's 10:30... I would like to ask a little attention from my fellow Members. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I don't want the box's opinion! Lőrinc Nacsa pointing to the box behind DK: There they are pointing! Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I don't want the box's opinion!]] I would like to ask the rapporteur if he would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2022-11-10-219	Thank you, Mr. President. I think it is by no means the length of the exposé and the length of the speech that counts in minutes or seconds, but what we say in this time. The Honvéd Chief of Staff has a boss, Congresswoman, no chief of staff. You didn't read the submission. You're misusing the terms, there's no Chief of Staff involved, the Honvéd Chief of Staff will be in charge. You don't understand civilian control, Congresswoman. "Civil control" is an English expression [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Civil control, I know!]] , simple translation into Hungarian is not what the original expression is about, this is civilian control. Civil man is the Minister of Defence, and the government controls the Hungarian Defence Forces. This is what civil control is about, not that the Hungarian Defence and Police Committee exercises civilian control over the Hungarian Defence Forces. So this is also a mistake. You think if I used the word "brassy," then if you say penetrately impertinently, then you won 2:1, because you've already used two words instead of one. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Is that the answer? Really?]] The DOD and the Military Bureau were also involved. That is not what this proposal is about. My fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, has already explained to you that there is neither governance nor leadership in the text on the establishment of the Military Office. This office, which helps the Prime Minister, prepares his decisions, as he is the head of the government and prepares the decisions of the government. The Office of Defence Administration shall carry out tasks relating to the administration. It doesn't control and it doesn't lead the Ministry of Defence or the Hungarian Defence. If you continued or recalled this number war, who spent more or less: in the pre-2010 period, the defense budget was part of the pension of soldiers who retired earlier. This amount was included in the defence budget and was not included in the defence budget after 2010. Therefore, it is not surprising that the number before 2010 may be higher in nominal terms than the number after 2010. But once again, I stress that your activities before 2010 were eight years, and you were a part of it, since you were also a member of the parliamentary majority as a Member of Parliament and a member of the government as a State Secretary. They destroyed this country, which is why after 2010, until 2015 the budget is exactly what you listed. By the way, by keeping this budget at the level that you listed, we have gained a great deal of recognition among our allies, because countless countries have reduced their budget within the NATO Alliance, and we have kept it at a level until 2015 when it was possible to raise the budget. And before the target we set, we reach 2 percent of GDP in 2023, and this is also an honorable achievement, and it is recognized by those who know how to do it. As they acknowledge the activities, work, service of mission soldiers. They have done this every time and every time; when I have a personal opportunity, I always thank you for the work and service of our soldiers. There was a US minister who said that if he visited a mission and saw the Hungarian flag flying there, he was calm because he knew that the mission was in good hands. I didn't say, Congresswoman, that the Hungarian Defence Forces would be able to fight because they would call the Honvéd General Choir. [[22.30]] I said that bureaucracy would be reduced and that it would facilitate the speed of decisions, just as the word "shape" is true, because instead of the Hungarian Defence Command, a Honvéd Command will be created and the non-military headquarters will be set up below the Central Command level. This is a transformation of the Hungarian Defence Command, and there will be Honvéd Chief of Staff, which will be responsible for strategic direction, and under it will be operational force command that accelerates decision-making and accelerates decision-making. That's all I said, and I think it's included in the proposal. Once again, I would like to emphasise that it is not because it lasts long, but because we are talking about the substance, and the presentation is there for you to read. I ask my fellow Members to support this proposal in the vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-11-10-220	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Coming up in NATO peacekeeping operation in Kosovo [[KFOR]] a joint general debate on the report on Hungarian military engagement and the proposal for a resolution on its adoption until closure. Government referral B/143. and the proposal for a decision submitted by the Defence and Police Committee, H/1827. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Vargha, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence, the author of the report. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2022-11-10-221	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The international role of the Hungarian Defence Forces is one of the priority tasks of participating in the mission in the Balkan theatre, and accordingly, the Hungarian Defence Forces contribute significantly to the KFOR operations in Kosovo and the EUFOR Althea operations in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The purpose of this report is to fulfil the obligation laid down in Article 47 (4) of the Fundamental Law. In its parliamentary decision on the Hungarian contribution to the military peace-keeping operations in the Balkans previously carried out under NATO, the Government provided for a framework for engagement in the Government's decision on Hungarian military participation in the international forces involved in NATO-led Balkan military peace-support operations. At the same time, the framework for participation in the Kosovo operation has required certain changes since Parliament and the Government resolutions were taken. Among the Hungarian security and defence policy objectives, peace and security in the Western Balkans and the resolution of the southern challenges are priorities. We believe that the long-term stability of the region can be achieved through the successful integration of the Western Balkan countries, but the basic condition of this is the stabilisation of the security situation, to which these two operations make a significant contribution. Our country is one of the largest contributors to the KFOR mission and carries out its commanding function on a regular rotation basis. In the last year, between 15 October 2021 and 10 October 2022, Hungarian commander, Maj-Gen Ferenc Kájári, led the KFOR mission, which was a major recognition zone. In view of the above, the Government resolutions on the Hungarian military engagement in NATO's peacekeeping operation in Kosovo allowed this operation, but in addition to the decision taken in 2021, it was justified to repeal the previous government decision adopted in 2008 and the parliamentary decision taken in 2001, which was also decided by the Government and Parliament. This is included in the report before you, which I would like to ask for your adoption. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-11-10-222	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Mr Simon Miklós, rapporteur of the Committee on Defence and Police, rapporteur for the proposal for a decision. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-11-10-223	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Dear Secretary of State, I would like to point out that I am now speaking on behalf of the author of the decision and also as the lead speaker of the Fidesz faction. At its meeting on 2 November, the Defence and Police Committee discussed and approved the report on Hungarian military engagement in NATO's peacekeeping operation in Kosovo. The proposal for a resolution on the adoption of the report was submitted to the Parliament. The report also emphasises that the preservation of peace in the Western Balkans is a strategic priority among the security and defence policy objectives of our country. We consider the long-term stability of the region to be feasible with the successful Euroatlantic integration of the Western Balkan countries, but it is a prerequisite for improving the fragile security situation. Our active participation in the KFOR operation, looking back for many years, shows commitment in this direction. On the part of the Alliance, this engagement is highly appreciated. This is a clear sign of the fact that the operation has been operating under Hungarian command in the last 12 months. Here I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for the exemplary standing of the staff in KFOR operations. The proposal for a resolution adopting the report is supported by the Fidesz faction, and I would also ask my fellow Members to support the proposal. Thank you very much.
u2022-11-10-224	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Agnes Vadai, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2022-11-10-225	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The first word is thanks. Thanks not only to the soldiers who are now serving, but also to all those who have served security there for the past many years, and to our national pride that such colleagues, such soldiers, served and defended, kept peace there and tried to do their job as much as possible. I would like to ask you, General, to give my regards to all the soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Forces, and thank you not only for them, but also all those working in foreign missions and in general to defend their country. The task they are carrying out is very important, and it is particularly important to ensure peace and security in operations KFOR and EU Althea in that region. That's definitely the first thing we need to do. Of course we support it. There are few cases, to be honest, that I can support in your presentation, but everything that serves international peace and security in the international mission, and every step that gives Hungarian soldiers the opportunity to make progress, where they can show what they are capable of and international missions are like, and of course we know what they are doing, it is extremely important that we know that in these cases they will receive our support. At the same time, I have to make a few things clear to you. The first and most important question is that Tibor Benkő, Minister of the former Government, submitted this report in December 2021. Slowly Christmas, only in 2022. [[22.40]] I get it, if you see in some sort of proposal these days that NATO, you're gonna throw away that it's free, but maybe it wasn't available. And the reason you couldn't have done it was because we're debating a lot of matters, we're facing each other in a lot of cases, but I think that the democratic opposition and the government agree on these kinds of matters. You don't have to deal with the others, I guess. This type of participation in international missions is extremely important. That is why I would have liked to have discussed this matter sooner on date and early in the hour. I am happy to sit in the Hungarian Parliament even at quarter to eleven, but if there is a case worth showing that the government and opposition can agree, it is worth showing to the Hungarian citizens. Just because we are serious about the responsibility of the Hungarian Defence Forces to protect the country and to voluntarily participate in missions resulting from international obligations. We are proud of these soldiers, and we are very pleased that they are involved in this operation, not only in KFOR, but also in Althea. And there is no problem with that, and I think that it is very right and gives us all great pride that it was also a Hungarian commander. And we wish that there should be as many Hungarian commanders as possible, and Hungarian soldiers will be able to demonstrate as many times as possible the ability they have acquired in recent years. The problem is your foreign policy. That's the problem. I mentioned NATO in advance. As Sándor Rónay, Klára Dobrev's Shadow Minister of Foreign Affairs said yesterday in Brussels, Orbán, after he cannot steal, honours a new passion: blackmail. In recent weeks and months, you have systematically rejected the opposition, including the proposal of the Hungarian Socialist Party and the Democratic Coalition to put T/637 on the agenda. and T/638. Proposals for the accession of Finland and Sweden to NATO. For some reason, you have systematically rejected this and seem to have changed your position on this. We have noticed that, and that is why I am not surprised that the report on NATO's KFOR mission is just coming before the Parliament, and I am not surprised that it is the last agenda. But what we saw at the beginning of this year is that the Hungarian government, the Orbán government, has started to use and use a very different rhetoric than it did before. Perhaps there is no debate between us that Hungarian citizens are supporting NATO in addition to the European Union, that they are lanced to our NATO membership, and in a greater proportion. Nevertheless, you have constantly questioned the need for NATO membership from the beginning of the year, the importance of NATO's ability to protect us, or whether the Hungarian Defence Office alone is doing so. Not you, Secretary of State, because you were obviously not an important player in this defence line at the time, but Tibor Benkő was sent to talk about it at the time, and we have seen many times that the Minister has been confused, and, unfortunately, the Hungarian Defence Commander of the Honvéd Chief of Staff, if you like it, so Chief of Staff also spoke strangely about our membership of NATO. And since then we have seen that when Russia aggressively attacked Ukraine, and Finland and Sweden from two countries with whom we are working together in the European Union, there was a demand for joining NATO, the last ratification country before Hungary was Slovakia on 25 September. Since then, the Hungarian majority, the Fidesz and KDNP fractions have refused to put the ratification of these two countries on the agenda for NATO accession. That's a problem. NATO is a great community, and I believe that it is in Hungary's interest to extend from Finland to Turkey to its eastern part. But you, in this case and in this last meeting of the House Committee, have made it very clear that you are doing something completely different, and I am not surprised at what you are saying. But at the House Committee meeting, one of your representatives did not specifically support the inclusion of Finland and Sweden in the NATO accession agenda this week. That's a problem. This undermines all efforts made by the soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Forces in the KFOR mission. At the same time, in your foreign policy, the destabilisation activity carried out at government level is a serious problem. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, in the Althea mission, there is a terrible fragile peace, there is no need to explain that to you. It's a very fragile situation. An actor, President Dodik, has appeared who, beyond normal behaviour so far, is seeking to destabilize Bosnia and Herzegovina, and you have promised this man an economic development programme of EUR 100 million and you are supporting him directly with taxpayers' money. Of this, EUR 35 million was distributed before the Bosnian elections, i.e. HUF 14 billion. This man, who you support at government level, is working to destroy the Dayton peace, to break the fragile unit that has brought together Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is one of your Balkan policies. The other direction is that the former Prime Minister of Northern Macedonia, who was convicted of corruption in his country, has been smuggled into Hungary with diplomatic assistance, and this man here lives like Marci Hevesen. Nothing's happening, maybe I don't know where he started a company with the greatest peace of mind. He's a criminal. You and the economy around you, I do not say that professionals are oligarchs, who, by the way, have been rich in taxpayers' money, who have tried to influence Northern Macedonia and Slovenia through media companies, so much so that a concrete European investigation has been launched. As far as Serbia is concerned, you are in close contact with the Serbian President who did not support Viktor Orbán's sanctions policy in Brussels. Your Balkan policy, the media expansion using violent taxpayers' money and other economic expansions, your Bosnian activity, where you also support a person with Hungarian taxpayers' money who wants to break the peace and fragile political balance in Bosnia and Herzegovina, will not help in any way in the Balkans. And I would like to add here at the end, when the Hungarian soldiers serve outside in the bond of NATO and the European Union and do their job very well, they think very positively of Hungary, and thank you very much for that. But when you stand up and talk about not ratifying the accession of Finland and Sweden because you have a lot to do, I would like to say that I have until about 10.30 a.m. tomorrow if we want to deal with this. They were able to deal with the Universal Postal Association, and they weren't. And, you know, Mr President, the fact that the Hungarian Government is acting in this way will cause the biggest problem precisely to those countries in the Western Balkans, which you intend to help and undermine, in principle, the very positive and exemplary activity that the soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Forces are doing in these missions. I would therefore like to ask you with due respect, if possible, to modify this attitude. [[22.50]] Please stop financing Dodik in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and please take care of Nikola Gruevski as appropriate. That man was convicted in his own country for being corrupt. And you're protecting him. This does not help Hungary, it does not help the Western Balkans, and this undermines the activity that the soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Forces have been doing in the Western Balkans mission for the pleasure and satisfaction of all of us for many long years. I would like to conclude by thanking the soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Forces once again, I wish them further success in every mission, and to continue this activity successfully, to come home safely, in good health, and to continue to serve their country as it has been. Thank you very much.
u2022-11-10-226	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-11-10-227	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Finally, a bill we agree with Agnes Vadai on something. I would also like to be the first to express my thanks, thank the Hungarian soldiers for the foreign mission, the efforts they have made to defend the country and the professionalism, determination and self-sacrifice they show, thus increasing the international reputation of the Hungarian Defence Forces, and thus increasing the reputation of our country. I had the honor of visiting the KFOR mission in Kosovo a month ago. I saw with my own eyes the Hungarian quota, presented by Lieutenant Colonel Sándor Horváth. Since 1999 Hungarian presence has been present, since 1999 the Hungarian Defence Office has been contributing to the KFOR operation, and since 1999 we have been able to determine three important milestones of this, which fall into the Socialist period, which must be fully recognised, since since 2004 the Hungarian Defence Forces have been present in the KFOR mission with tribal officers and quota. Then the next major milestone, I think, is 2017, when we took over the KFOR military reserve battalion's task system in 2017, which significantly increased our engagement in the region. The third major milestone was the autumn 2021, when the KFOR mission became the Hungarian commander of Maj-Gen Kajári. Now, after a year, General Kajári has handed over command duties to an Italian general, but our deputy commander remains in the KFOR mission, and Ferenc Kajári has also made a major contribution on diplomatic roads and as KFOR commander, so that, for example, the famous license plate issue does not escalate in the region and has contributed to the Belgrade-Pristina dialogue being kept alive, as the European Union has also been appointed to assist Belgrade-Pristina dialogue. I think that we should be proud that a Hungarian soldier has been able to contribute in such a high position to the improvement of the situation at the Serbian-Kosovo border, and to reduce tensions, even if it is a difficult task. It can be seen from the fact that the stability of the Western Balkans can be greatly guaranteed by this mission, and it can contribute more and more, and this is an important way we are on, that in 1990 there were tens of thousands of soldiers stationed in peacekeeping missions, now four thousand to two hundred, and nearly five thousand soldiers participating in the KFOR mission. The Hungarian contingent is the third largest contributor to this operation with four hundred seventy-some Hungarian soldiers, plus the 72 officers and deputy officers who work in the command of KFOR. I think that this is also a result that we deserve to be proud of. I can confirm from here, even after visiting the KFOR mission, that the international partners, the leadership of the other countries, speak with the highest recognition of the Hungarian contingent, the preparedness of the Hungarian soldiers, the technique, because we have a very serious technique out there that helps peacekeeping, as Hungarian soldiers perform patrol, sometimes mass dispersal, peacekeeping and even facility protection tasks in the KFOR mission, which, I think, makes a significant contribution to the stability of the Western Balkans, and they also have to carry out practices that will also result in a very rapid transition to Bosnia and Herzegovina. It wasn't that long ago. I think that the Hungarian soldiers and the Hungarian contingent have also performed this practice at the highest level. It is natural that we support the adoption of the report, it is natural to support the KFOR mission in everything that is necessary. For my part, I can say, on the basis of my personal experience of less than a month, that this is the right direction, and the preparation of Hungarian soldiers and Hungarian commanders in the NATO bond was not by accident the professional respect that surrounds us in NATO. Thank you so much for your service. I would just like to point out that there has been a distortion here, too, in order to ensure that there is a policy in my speech. Both Fidesz and KDNP support the accession of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden to NATO. I have said this to you several times myself, and this is known from the fact that, for example, the various minutes of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, where we have already discussed this issue, are public. We therefore support the accession of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden to NATO, and we will act accordingly. Thank you very much.
u2022-11-10-228	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Tamás Harangozó, the lead speaker of the MSZP group. Here you go.
u2022-11-10-229	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Guests, Of course, the MSZP is committed to supporting NATO and the EU's efforts and missions for international peacekeeping. This was the case in the past, so it is in the present, and so it will be in the future. [[Ancient Novak: In the past, there was a Warsaw Alliance!]] Hungary has a particularly important safety interest in... [[He's taking a short break.]] Nothing, I counted to five. I'd rather not respond to wailing. So, returning to the subject and to what I think is important, Hungary has a particularly important security interest in the stability of the Balkan peninsula, and I think that in the present situation, in which we are today or today there are people in the region, the presence of the KFOR forces is particularly important, even tangible. I do not wish to repeat the concerns of my fellow Member of the Vada, but it is worth considering, for example, the way in which any support for action to intentionally weaken or destroy stability in Bosnia and Herzegovina could also jeopardise the physical security of Hungarian soldiers in the region. At present, the country and the situation that developed there are powder barrels for stability throughout the Balkans. In addition, of course, we continue to support Hungarian participation in the KFOR operation. We would also like to express our thanks in the peacekeeping operation for serving as an exemplary service and serving as a former soldier, by the name of General Ferenc Kájári. I'm asking you to give our compliments. Now, as so far, in our view, in all such foreign missions, not only at the level of words, but also in fact, they have made every Hungarian citizen proud, and it is important to hear only positive feedback from everyone in this House on their recognition, preparedness, correctness, and task implementation. Thank you so much for your service.
u2022-11-10-230	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Novak Elõk, the lead speaker of the group of our country, who, as I see it, wishes to make his speech at the pulpit. [[Novak Előd steps on the pulpitus.]]
u2022-11-10-231	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Vice-General, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, There are still about 4 percent of them who are still following our work as we approach midnight. The report on Hungarian military engagement in NATO's peacekeeping operation in Kosovo, contrary to its title, is not a meaningful report, only a legal review if someone took the trouble and read it. What they did, what actions, what dangers they were involved in the civil war situation, the report doesn't say a word about that. We do not know how much this has cost Hungary, how much it has cost us, how much it has increased Hungary's terrorist threat, what financial implications it has had for Hungary. [[23.00]] Even though I asked how much it cost, at the meeting of the National Assembly's Defense Committee, we didn't get an answer to that, not even a question. It would normally have been included in a report. Unfortunately, like Afghanistan, it is encrypted, i.e., like our participation in the occupation in Afghanistan, they encrypt the figures on what this costs to Hungary, as Minister Benkő has been asked in vain in the previous term, and I fear that the new leadership, following this practice, does not want to account for the cost to taxpayers of these various occupations or military engagements called missions. This is not an individual case, because I wrote a letter to the Minister almost two months ago, and they did not reply for almost two months, and the Minister replied to me in an anonymous, single-line letter, even though I wrote to the Minister himself. Of course, I didn't get a substantive answer to my question, so there's nothing new in that sense, but let me read the first line of this letter, and therefore also recommending it to Mr. Secretary of State, looking into the fact that the letter may not have been stuck on just one office secretary. As a Member of Parliament, I do not wish to draw attention to the shortcomings of the Hungarian Defence Service, but I feel responsible for highlighting the Minister in some areas, in case he has missed it, with written questions published on Parliament's website. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, After that, I began to ask questions, but, as I said, for nearly two months I did not receive any answers, and then I was urged to receive this certain anonymous, single-line letter. I think that this should not be the way in which the system of national cooperation should work, and I would ask the Secretary of State to look into this, because I wanted a meaningful dialogue, and I did not ask for a public written question on Parliament's website, but in a confidential letter I tried to draw attention to the shortcomings of the Hungarian Defence Service as a Hungarian patriot, a professional politician of the Hungarian Parliament Movement. Unfortunately, this debate is also being ignored now, as many of us can see. Neither did the Momentum, the Dialogue and the LMP, which was exonerated from physical education and history, initially indicate any intention to comment. I, on the other hand, would like to highlight some very serious problems. I would like to thank Mr Vice-General for fulfilling the order, whatever that order may be, and I apologise for the fact that these orders are in many cases instructing you to participate in foreign occupations. On the other hand, the Hungarian Movement claims the demands of the March 1848 young men and the boys of Pest, and we can quote from the 12 points that our Hungarian soldiers should not be taken abroad, the foreigners should be taken away from us. And indeed, from the billions spent in Iraq, Mali, to our participation in Afghanistan and similar occupations, we would provide more attractive domestic remuneration and modern equipment, more serious domestic military exercises for our countrymen. Just to give you some personal experience, I've had a comrade on the southern border who's served as a reserve soldier for several years, perhaps five years, and yet he's been able to shoot six rounds of ammunition in the army for the whole of his service for many years, and so he served ten times as many, 60 sharps on his side of the south border. I think that there is a need for meaningful military exercises and shooting practices. We have a lot of such examples, and I think it is essential to change that, if you like, by redeploying costs and various missions. I also find it unacceptable that a country defender does not take part in foreign occupations, because, of course, it is not legally binding, but its progress is limited. As far as I know, you can't get a higher rank than Lieutenant Colonel, who doesn't want to participate, and you just want to serve your country in a strict sense. After allowing NATO troops to be deployed into our country in the framework of the US-Russian war, despite the government's earlier promise, our country remained the only party to speak in favour of Hungary's independence. Foreign forces have no place in our country, Hungary belongs to the Hungarians. Our contractual obligation arising from our NATO membership would only help to protect it if a Member State was attacked, but for example, Serbia, Kosovo or Ukraine are not NATO members. I am strongly opposed to the military support of the Soviet Ukraine, which pursues a repressive policy against the Hungarian national part of Transcarpathia, in NATO's tail, and especially in the service of American interests. The embargo against the Russians has already caused invaluable damage to the Hungarian economy, indirectly to the Hungarian Defence Forces, of course, in the most direct way, let us say, to Hungarian agriculture, but it is now time for the Hungarian interest to come first, and the Prime Minister does not now vote for these sanctions. The Hungarian government should not provoke the Russians with the support of Ukraine's unconditional accession to the EU, or even with the continuation of a war situation and military preparation! Hungary has a responsibility that, unfortunately, instead of independence, our country has become a foreign military march area, and we can be transported through Romania and Slovakia to Ukraine. In July, the commander of the Hungarian Defence Forces secretly visited the Ukrainian Joint Chiefs of Staff.We only learned about this from Ukrainian news, and the head of the armed forces there said that he was satisfied with the level of military cooperation between Ukraine and Hungary. Well, what else does he know that our government doesn't want us to know? ! Since then, the Baltic airfield has been provided to Hungarian Gripes, and the military boasted that Russian fighters have been caught, so to speak, so the Hungarian fighters have been in conflict with the Russians. If you have already responded to the letters, I would say that you have failed to have a moral obligation, unfortunately I have not received an answer here in Parliament either that the government is willing to take the Hungarian veto of NATO expansion in order to avoid World War II. Between Ágnes Vadai and the KDNP representative, we see a kind of great democratic love unfolding here, but the Hungarian veto of the enlargement of NATO Member States is promoted by the Mi Hazank Movement, it seems that then perhaps as a single party, because another step towards the world war, the expansion of the military alliance on the border of Russia would be a provocation, while the neutral zone, I think, is an international interest. We have no problem with Finland and Sweden, but it is also in their interest not to widen the war conflict with their accession to NATO right now. Europe's peace and fragile balance are ensured if Russia and NATO are not or are only marginal to each other, because there is a militaryly neutral or a so-called buffer zone. So far, Finland and Sweden have played this role in the north and Ukraine in Central and Eastern Europe. In the last six months, we have seen that the attempt to eliminate this buffer zone, i.e. to globalise Ukraine, to integrate it into the Western Federal System, automatically triggers a violent reaction by the other party. It is therefore essential that Russia's neighbourhood be as militaryly neutral as possible in order to avoid the expansion of the conflict into a world war in this situation; that is, Finland, Sweden, and even Ukraine and the other former Soviet republics to the south. According to the Hungarian Movement, it is time for Hungary, with the veto of NATO expansion, to finally take action against the expansion of war. Thank you for your attention.
u2022-11-10-232	Thank you, Congressman. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Dear Parliament, Now for the two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Agnes Vadai, from the DK Group.
u2022-11-10-233	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say to Congressman Nacsa that we now need proof, not a promise. You always say, where possible, how much you support the accession of Finland and Sweden to NATO, which, I think, is a priority for Hungary's security, so that its eastern wing is strengthened by NATO. But in recent months, quite precisely since the summit in Madrid in July, no concrete steps have been taken to strengthen the decision adopted there by all NATO Member States. Our proposals were rejected in the Committee on Foreign Affairs in this regard, and the House Committee meeting did not support the inclusion of the proposal on the agenda, perhaps for the third time. [[23.10]] In November, there will be one more time when the Parliament can negotiate, and then the meeting will end at the beginning of December. They're obviously preparing for the Qatari soccer world, so they don't have time to sit down, and they have something to talk about. I propose that you support the ratification of the accession of Finland and Sweden to NATO in November as soon as possible. It's an important thing. I would like to emphasise once again, because it is a very important report that dates from last year, but obviously they did not have time to put this on the agenda. We are very grateful for the work that the Hungarian Defence Office has done, and we are proud of the soldiers who served their country in different parts of the world and have always served their country. Thank you very much.
u2022-11-10-234	Thank you. We now have further speeches from our representatives. I give the floor to Zoltán Sas of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2022-11-10-235	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Hungary is a member of the NATO federal system, and this has been done with the highest mandate and referendum, and the fact is that we have international military obligations to participate in as a result of this membership. Both the Hungarian Army and the Hungarian soldiers perform these tasks well. Respect and thanks for that. Over the past few years, they have had to carry out these tasks in increasingly difficult and dangerous circumstances, and they have been honoured, and although the report was made in December of last year, I think that if we are talking about Kosovo, it is important to mention that unfortunately we have had a soldier on this mission who has lost his life, so I would like to take the opportunity here to express my sincere condolences to both the military and the family. Once again, I would like to thank all Hungarian soldiers for their service, do so either at home or abroad. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2022-11-10-236	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, No further comments were received. The joint general debate is hereby closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the report if he would like to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2022-11-10-237	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The presentation before us is about Hungarian military engagement in NATO's peacekeeping operations in Kosovo, and I think that the service of Hungarian soldiers in this and other operations is so important and important that I would like to talk about this issue alone, and I think that in the context of this proposal, because it is so important and important, it is unworthy that we are talking about another subject. So I'd like to repeat what I've already done once today. I would like to thank Mr Zsolt Sándor personally [[Zsolt Sándor, sitting in the box, is standing up and listening to the thanks of the Secretary of State.]] who himself did not participate in an operation and the service of all Hungarian soldiers. And the excellent one-year commanding service of Major General Ferenc Kajári. Vice General, thank you. [[General applause.]]
u2022-11-10-238	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I will ask the rapporteur for the proposal for a decision to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] No. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. I must continue with the joyful sentence that we have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today, my fellow Members. On behalf of President Novák, on behalf of Mi Hazank, he applied for a post-meeting speech: Why are the government representatives leaking from the closed meeting of the National Security Committee while our country is being excluded from it? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. I'll give you the floor in five minutes.
u2022-11-10-239	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, I was banned by the majority of the ruling parties from the National Security Committee meeting, even though as a representative of our country, I successfully passed the national security screening. Only the members of the Committee of the MSZP and Jobbik could participate in the encrypted conference outside of the governing parties, and then on that day they leaked to the Hungarian nation the information that is favourable to them, and they are making a system of it, so I filed a complaint by the Btk. 265. the use of classified information within the meaning of Article 305 of the Treaty and Article 305 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Against suspicion of abuse of office within the meaning of Article 4 (1). At the beginning of the parliamentary term, our country primarily requested the presidency of the National Security Committee, and after the ruling parties had not given it, at least the national radical party had a committee seat in it, but did not receive it either. Therefore, the Act on Parliament 40. Pursuant to Article 4 of the Act, the non-member of the Commission requested me to participate in the national security audit as a member of the Defence Committee, but the MPs voted against my intention to participate in the closed session without justification, thus excluding a party from the Commission's information on a separate list of members of Parliament. The presence of our expert is not allowed, nor is the presence of Ogy. by law, one expert per group of representatives may be present at the meeting of the parliamentary committee at the meeting of the agenda item. That's the way the law says it, or rather, you can't be present, apparently. After that, it was particularly unscrupulous to leak some of the data of the closed session to the Hungarian Nation, which, on the day of the meeting, wrote that the committee had ordered a secret service investigation into the foreign campaign support of the left-wing parties, which according to the paper the National Security Committee will continue to investigate in the next few weeks in closed meetings. According to Mi Hazánk, the campaign financing violation and the role of Facebook, admitted by Péter Márki-Zay, should be examined in full public, as the interference of foreign interest groups in the Hungarian elections is also a national security risk, but CÖF, CÖKA and Follow us on the other side 2022. Ltd. and similar fronts of their billion-dollar campaign spendings and resources. Speaking of national security risks, let us mention that the ruling parties and the Balliberal opposition unanimously swept off, so all the other parties except for the Hungarian Movement, my legislative proposal this week that the possible dual, plural citizenship of Members must be declared in the framework of the declaration of property. Where, for example, the names of close relatives are also to be stated, and there is still a list of them, a Member must also make a statement on language knowledge and other matters. I think that, in the spirit of transparency, it would be necessary to see clearly who has the constraints or built a sort of escape route, say, to an African banana republic. If we remember the case of former State Secretary Gábor Simon, former vice-president of the MSZP, who not only found 240 million forints in his bank account in Vienna, but also a passport to the Central African Republic, in addition to tens of millions of additional uncleared money in his home safe. I think that building an escape route to such an African banana republic is quite talkative, and it draws attention to the need for, say, a propertyisation investigation here. It was also a national security risk for cooperation with various secret services. At Szabó Timea we have heard many times that he was suspected of being a CIA agency, but last time Levente Murányi, the last fifty-six of Jobbik, has quit fifty-six, he said a few months ago that Márton Gyöngyösi is also a CIA agent, the current president of Jobbik. I think it would be time to be clear on these issues, and let me bring only the Israeli example here in closing, because we know that there not only is the dual citizenship of Members public, but it must also give up either its nationality or its mandate. In this sense, the proposal of the Hungarian Movement is a proposal for me, too, which is almost insufferably moderate, but I trust that, however, as a compromise, you will be able to be heard sooner or later. If it takes a little social pressure, we're gonna find it sooner or later. Thank you.
u2022-11-10-240	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. Thank you to all of your colleagues who helped with the Parliament's work today.
