u2022-06-24-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 5th day of the extraordinary meeting of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that Lajos Szűcs and Sándor Berki are in charge of the meeting. [[Sándor Berki will take his place in the notary seat.]] I'm going to need some help from the notary gentlemen who are arriving right now. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, The general debate and conclusion of the draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2023 will follow. The bill is T/152. and the opinion of the State Audit Office T/152/3. can be found on the website. I would like to inform you that the presentation will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, I would like to remind you that the Parliament has decided to negotiate the proposal within a 30-hour timeframe. The agenda recommendation shall be appended to the allocation of timeframes. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to explain the distribution of the time frame of the factions available today. Mr. Messenger!
u2022-06-24-1	Dear Parliament, Today's six-hour timeframe is divided into 123 minutes for the Fidesz Group; 57 minutes for the KDNP Group; 34 minutes for the DK Group; 27 minutes for the Jobbik Group; 27 minutes for the Momentum Group; 27 minutes for the MSZP Group; 22 minutes for the Group of Hungary; 22 minutes for the Dialogue Group; 20 minutes for the LMP Group; 1 minute for the independent Members.
u2022-06-24-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, The speakers will now be taking part in the time-frames available for today. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing. Zsolt Herczeg, Fidesz, may I ask you to place your card in the voting machine or move it? [[It's happening.]] Yeah, it's okay now. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-06-24-3	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We undertake to cultivate and preserve our heritage, our unique language, Hungarian culture, the language and culture of Hungarian ethnicities, the natural and man-made values of the Carpathian Basin. We take responsibility for our successors, so we use our material, spiritual and natural resources carefully to protect the life-givings of the generations that follow us, and it can be found in the National Creed. These are important lines, since with these two sentences we define the future of Hungary, our desire to preserve Hungary's established identity and our responsibility for the next generation. Sustainable development is a process of development that meets the needs of these generations without reducing the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. The multiplicity of this process is also highlighted by the fact that, at the UN General Assembly convened in autumn 2015, the 17 Sustainable Development Goals for which 167 sub-targets were set were adopted in full agreement. The three pillars of sustainable development are social development, economic development and environmental protection. These objectives have been built around the three main themes, including poverty eradication, quality education, the development of industry, innovation and infrastructure and the protection of terrestrial ecosystems. This shows that sustainable development covers all areas of life and also means improving the sustainability and resilience of society. The Government of Hungary also places great emphasis on the promotion of all of this. The measures taken in recent years show that the government supports young people, workers, pensioners and family members, and also strives for the development of the Hungarian economy. Government grants, programmes and tender opportunities also ensure that the harmonious economic growth of the last ten years can continue in Hungary. Peace became a primary issue in 2022. Point 16 of sustainable development covers peace, justice and strong institutions. After the outbreak of the Crown Virus, the Russian-Ukrainian war is testing the inhabitants and leaders of the countries around the world. The Government of Hungary has undertaken to protect the Hungarian families and the results achieved so far. This is also reflected in the planned budget for 2023. The necessary resources have been allocated to the newly created Rezségvédelmi és Honvédelmi Fund, as have the resources necessary for the development of the Hungarian economy, for the protection of family support and pensions. The commitments and grants implemented to reduce the effects of climate change aim primarily at the sustainable use of terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems are closely linked to family protection measures. We must bear in mind that everything we do today for Earth will determine the future of our children and grandchildren. So we can say that climate and nature protection is our patriotic duty. Dear Parliament, A significant segment of Earth conservation is awareness raising and education. It is important to learn about the environment, environmental problems and measures and opportunities to address them. Support for research is therefore of paramount importance. The aim is to ensure that the state ensures the coordinated, practical and efficient use of resources for R &amp; D and innovation in support of the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy. This will be done through the operation of the single National Research, Development and Innovation Fund. The three different tasks of this fund are the Research Fund, the Innovation Fund and the National Laboratories Fund established in 2022. I would like to mention briefly the Research Fund section that the resources of this item will be set at the expense of programmes that encourage internationally recognised research excellence in the field of basic research. Support for research-initiative projects in any field of science will be implemented through the development of a predictable research career model. The primary aspects of selecting the proposals that deserve support are the novelty of the project idea, the expected contribution of humanity to knowledge and the feasibility of research. For the most prominent Hungarian researchers, international top-of-the-line research excellence programme enables them to carry out research, which provides outstanding domestic support for worthy research teams in the field of exploration for five years. For research support under the Programme, the Programme for Advanced Research Excellence is set at 1185/2017. [[CHAPTER IV 10.]] In 2023 HUF 3000 million can be used to support individual research excellence programmes. Ladies and gentlemen, In the case of research, we should mention national park directorates, which play a significant role in environmental and nature conservation. The tasks and powers of these directorates shall include, inter alia, the coordination of research on the exploration and rehabilitation of habitats and lifeless natural values, in addition to activities arising from the obligations of national protected areas and international treaties, and national parks shall be involved as public and administrative bodies in the procedures affecting them. [[8.10]] They operate guard services that help preserve protected natural values and areas, protect forest and conservation valuable flora and fauna, as well as geological formations. In addition to the above, the Management Boards carry out more and more emphasis on the certification, maintenance and operation of nature conservation demonstration, educational, ecotourism and environmental education facilities in order to demonstrate conservation objectives and results. They contribute to the environmental education of the population, increasing their attachment to nature and the environment. In most cases, the functioning of directorates focuses on economically disadvantaged rural areas, sometimes only employers in these areas. It has a measurable economic benefit and a population-reserving power to develop from the sources they receive. In order to carry out their complex tasks, the government has allocated more than HUF 13 billion in the budget for 2023. The examples I have mentioned show that the government's ambitions include sustainable development objectives in the fields of quality education, protection of terrestrial ecosystems, innovation development, decent work and economic growth. I would like to conclude my speech with 169 points in the circular of the Hungarian Catholic Bishop's Conference: protecting the environment is more than ensuring the decent living conditions of the present and future generations, since man's relationship with God, humans and the created world is one. Protecting the natural environment is nothing more than protecting and promoting the common good, that is, human dignity. Similarly, with the content of the lines quoted above, the government has created its budget for 2023 in this spirit. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-24-4	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Ferenc David, DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-24-5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, Today, the structure of the Hungarian economy is very dual, i.e. there is a significant gap in development between small and medium-sized enterprises and large enterprises. The SME sector accounts for 99% of all Hungarian companies, but it produces only about half of GDP and accounts for about 70 percent of employment. The figures show that the productivity of SMEs is significantly below the corporate level. The gap therefore appears primarily in efficiency. The effectiveness of Hungarian SMEs remains very low in Europe, in the last third of the Member States. Hungarian SMEs are generally characterised by passive adaptation, i.e. drifting on market conditions and state regulations. In recent decades, significant state aid has been made in the sector, but according to several experts, most of these funds have not been a breakthrough. In the economy optimized for withdrawal of EU funds and subsidies, many companies adapt their profile to the available sources of tender rather than actually producing a successful product. Given the high share of SMEs in the entire Hungarian economy, it is clear that everything must be done to improve the sector. The productivity of SMEs can be the key to Hungary's successful catch-up to the European average. In employment, the SME sector is extremely high, almost 2 million people are working here, so if productivity could be substantially increased here, it would also have a spectacular impact on GDP as a whole and could be a lasting source of growth for years. According to the Minister for Finance's presentation on Wednesday, the most important objective of the budget is to improve the situation of public security and defence, i.e. micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, not much attention will be paid next year. I must also mention the fact that while domestic multinational companies are able to win at weak forints, domestic small businesses, especially those working with imported products, are the great losers of this process, victims of the loss of 40 percent of the value of domestic currency in relation to the euro in 12 years. It is unacceptable for us that Fidesz did not take sides with small Hungarian entrepreneurs, but with large global multinational companies. With the introduction of a global minimum tax, the country could finally have obtained revenue that would not have to be paid by Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. By rejecting the global minimum tax on only multinational large enterprises, the Hungarian budget was again undermined, the exchange rate of the forint was further uncertain, and the already fragile confidence in the Hungarian economic and financial system was further weakened. At the same time, with the increase in tax burden and the rapid deterioration of money, pre-election welfare expenditure was virtually withdrawn from people working in businesses, thus increasing worker dissatisfaction. But families are not the only ones who can be terrified. Your budget for next year does not contain any guarantees regarding the retention of the specific tax on small-tax enterprises, but if you change the kata in the wrong direction with bad conditions, then the Hungarian small-business community can increase its tax considerably from one moment to the next. 430 thousand micro- and small entrepreneurs are concerned about how the government and its loyal chamber of houses and chambers magically magically perform in the midst of an economic crisis: László Parragh and the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry with this well-known tax form. A few weeks ago, the Democratic Coalition launched an online petition to save katás taxing entrepreneurs, which has been signed by more than 10,000 people today. Home-based small businesses don't want any more cuts, let them work in peace. The introduction of a reduction in the costs of small businesses, which is part of the austerity package, has begun. It is almost certain that this will result in the destruction of new Hungarian businesses. We also regrettably registered that the government will double the taxes on occasional work and the taxes on companies' cars. It is already heard and read in the news that, as a result of rising inflation above 10 per cent, the representative organisations of domestic workers will come up with a substantial minimum wage increase demand, which has no doubt about its legality. It is well known that the majority of the minimum wage and guaranteed minimum wage workers of around 1 million are employed by small entrepreneurs, resulting in a larger share of the additional burden. Home-owned small businesses should also be helped from the budgetary side to ensure that the increased wage burden is managed smoothly next year and that there is no increase in black labour and black labour. Small business operators, traders and industrialists operating in the countryside in an economically depressed area are in a particularly difficult position to meet wage demands, but this budget does not provide any assurance to compensate for this. You are constantly talking about a family-friendly state budget to protect families. Well, the budget of 2023 really serves the interests of some Hungarian families, members of the families of Orbán, Mészáros, Tiborcz, Garancsi and all other oligarchs of NER can rub their hands with satisfaction, but ordinary Hungarian small entrepreneurs and their families can only look into the future with bad feelings, unprotected and worried. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]] [[8.20]]
u2022-06-24-6	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Lőrinc Nacs, on behalf of the KDNP Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-06-24-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In yesterday's speech, I said why Parliament's speeches on austerity on the left are false and what this budget actually contains. But I was surprised to hear Mr Ferenc Dávid's speech in Parliament, as he was an economic expert, and even an economic advisor to DK, who had been engaged in economics for a long time and in large Hungarian organizations, yet he described the current economic situation as tragic. In the current budget, he described the economic figures as tragic, and even as a DK politician, he even brought the black economy here as an accusation, when we look at it, honourable Member, how much more people were employed black in your time; how much more people did not pay their taxes in your time; how much we have done to whiten the economy in the last 12 years with online invoicing, online cash registers and, by the way, with a reduction in taxes, honourable Member. Because you know what the most important tool is to whiten the economy? It's a tax cut. 'Cause if the tax takes a bearable rate, they'd rather pay it than face the consequences. [[Intercoms from the DK benches.]] And you are the ones who argue for the global minimum tax, you are the ones who always argue for a tax increase. In your time, we had 36 percent personal income tax, and now we have 15 percent, so let's remember that. And if we look at how much he talked about companies, he talked about small and medium-sized enterprises, he also talked about large companies with an average corporate tax burden, it was 55 percent in 2010, honourable Member. This is now 32 percent as a result of the gradual decline. I think it's a huge achievement that we've achieved. Once again, I ask you to argue on the basis of the facts, because it is much easier to argue on the basis of facts than to conduct the budget debate on the basis of supposed formulas and perceived economic situation. So from 55 percent, the average corporate tax burden decreased to 32 percent. I think this is a great achievement and the tax burden on Hungarian businesses is lower. At the time there were 3.8 million people employed, now there are 4.7 million people employed; I also think it is a huge success, honourable Member. At that time, economic growth was negative 7 percent in the middle of the crisis, and now economic growth is plus 7 percent. Then the unemployment rate was 12 percent, now 3.6 percent. The structure of the economy and the state of the economy are quite different: the Hungarian economy is more impact-resistant now, with a healthier structure and stronger because the tax burden is lower, more people are working and Hungarian businesses are stronger, honourable Member. Only when we talk about such issues, it is worth looking back at what you left behind in 2010 and how the Hungarian economy was, how small and medium-sized enterprises were then. I think it is right, honourable Member, that I agree with you that we must speak up for small and medium-sized enterprises, that we must help small and medium-sized enterprises, that the future of the Hungarian economy is in Hungarian-owned small and medium-sized enterprises. We agree on that. Only then do not deny the facts that have taken place in order to strengthen the structure of the Hungarian economy in recent years and that have occurred in the 80-time tax reduction. We have reduced some type of tax eighty times in the last 12 years, honourable Member. I think it's very important. The employer's tax rate was 33.5 percent in your time, now 13 percent. There have been cuts, which I also believe are a major contribution to the whitening of the economy, which I think is unprecedented. We did not receive the first citation for a reason, as we did most of the time have reduced taxes within the European Union. And if we look at the Hungarian families, and if we look at the budget of only a few families, well, in 2009, do you know how much the budget was for family tax relief? Forint 12 billion, the total Hungarian society's family tax relief was 12 billion. Now 980 billion forints. Then you left 12 billion forints in the family, this is 980 billion forints in the family tax relief alone. Don't tell me this is not an obvious change, honourable Member. I think it's very important that we talk a little bit about the pricestops, the gas stop system, because you are bringing inflation back to normal. They are right about this, because inflation is high throughout the world, Europe and Hungary, so we need to take steps and take steps to break inflation in some way, stop it and help the Hungarian people as much as possible. That's why we put in the food stop. I am pleased to report that the government has decided to extend this price stop until 1 October 2022. And the petrol stop is also like this: 480 HUF, the cheapest petrol and gas oil prices in Europe, because the Hungarian government is important for the livelihood of Hungarian families, the costs of Hungarian families are important to help them as much as possible, and therefore we can reduce inflation a bit. The food price stop, the interest stop, the cost reduction and the petrol stop have been able to reduce inflation by several percent, according to analysts, by up to 3-4 percent over the past few years. But if we look now at the average price of petrol on the most popular holiday destinations, on the most popular holiday destinations of the Hungarians, of course, outside Hungary, honourable Member, we can see that Croatia has now introduced the petrol price cap following Hungary, but not at 480 forints, but at 715 forints, honourable Member. This is the preferential Croatian petrol price. But if we look at Greece, the price of petrol in Greece is 962 HUF, the price of petrol is 962 HUF, double as in Hungary. In Austria 818 HUF, in Spain 845 HUF to mention only the most popular resorts and holiday resorts in Europe, while in Hungary the price of petrol remains 480 HUF. And let us not forget, fellow Members, that it was Ferenc Dávid, the economic politician of DK, who said that if it cost a lot of gas, the motorists would buy it as much as they do now. He also said that the price of fuel could skyrocket, the Hungarians would pay anyway. Honourable Congressman, If it were up to you, your faction, there wouldn't be a gas stop today, so let's just admit it to each other. You have done everything in your power to abolish the reduction of the rent earlier, and I can summon the words of Klara Dobrev, and you will do everything in your power to abolish the gas stop now. If there were no petrol stop, there would be between 700 and 800 HUF a litre of fuel in Hungary. It's 480 now, the cheapest in Europe! Just like the Hungarian families pay the cheapest costs in Europe. I think this is a result, not to attack, but to support it, even if we have submitted it, if we have decided, if we are trying to help Hungarian people in this way. In addition to the constructive criticisms of the opposition, I think that if something successful and something actually helps Hungarian people, then we agree. You also said that I think that in this way there should be no interference with market processes, and that the costs should be presented in the price, so I am looking at this matter very strangely. Honourable Congressman, I understand or don't understand it, but I accept that you're looking at this thing as a stranger, but you have to admit that it is a much better system for Hungarian motorists at the moment than if they had to pay the price in Western Europe or the neighbouring countries, because they could choose to see in their account that they are gasping, say, 30 thousand forints and 20 thousand forints for the gas stop. I think it's very important. I'd like to talk to you a little bit after the economy about church politics. I think it is very important that since 2010, the number of students in ecclesiastical institutions has doubled, the number of people attending vocational training institutions and public education institutions, which is now more than 240 thousand people. In 2010, 6.5 percent attended church institutions, which is now 15.5 percent. I think there is still room for improvement, because according to the 2011 census, more than 55 percent of Hungarians consider themselves to be part of some kind of church, so the 15 percent, who are now attending church school, I think we still have room for manoeuvre in the next period. And the same is true in the area of social and child protection benefits, as the number of ecclesiastical institutions has increased from 15 percent to 25 percent in social services, but from 6.5 percent to 72 percent in child protection. Great growth Thank you very much for the institutions, for those who do everything for the everyday lives of children of the most unfortunate fate. I think that the social building and community building work of churches in Hungary is a value that should be supported, and I think that the Hungarian government and the Hungarian Parliament are right to say yes to the resources that this social building and community building work deserves; and that not only do we not only support religious support, but also help church primary activity, faith life with some resources, but also the tasks taken over from the state, institutional renovations, and constantly increase the resources that churches can receive for their community building work. [[8.30]] Over the past 12 years more than 3,000 churches have been renewed in Hungary and in the Carpathian Basin and 200 new ones have been built. There was a huge, I think 70, but rather 80-year lag behind us, because during the communist period, it is clear why the communists did not renew or build churches because of their anti-religiousness and anti-churchism, and after 90, politics defined things as more important, and there was not enough resources to catch up with us in repairing the decaying property, renovating them and protecting the built heritage that is an important and indeterminate investment. This is why I am pleased that the last Hungarian government announced the Hungarian church reconstruction programme in 2021, in which 1800 already started projects can be completed or re-launched, 1400 from the motherland and 400 from abroad. I think it is very important that the church is the place of the community in foreign areas. The parishes are the places for keeping the Hungarians, keeping the faith, so I think it is very important that Hungarian communities in Felvidék, Transcarpathian, Transylvania, Southern Hungary, and even in Croatia and Slovenia are given the necessary resources to enable their community to operate, operate, and even receive renovation money, renovation support. This is clear: putting into practice the policy we call that all Hungarians can count on the mother country wherever they live in the world. The allocation of funds for the extra income of ecclesiastical persons will continue to increase, thus increasing by nearly three times in 2022 compared to last year; the distribution of this, the specific amount per capita, will be decided by the churches in their own jurisdiction. Let us see that there are priests, clergymen who perform a very, very important service in a small-town sporadic area where the parish may not be able to manage the salary of the priest or the pastor, the amount necessary for his care, the amount intended for the operation of the community house or the operation of the car. Therefore, I think it is right that this should also help the vocation of priests and clergymen who provide church service in difficult environments, difficult districts and regions. There is also a larger amount of funding for additional support for church persons serving abroad in Hungarian, continuing the previous trend. Since its introduction in 2014, the additional support of ecclesiasticals serving abroad in Hungarian has increased fourfold. A total of HUF 5 billion per year is available from 2022. In 2022, the average wage-based support for church school religious education was introduced with an additional budget of HUF 6 billion, with a total budget of HUF 17.96 billion for compulsory and optional religious education in 2022. In the last 11 years, more than 1100 billion HUF of funding has already been allocated to the churches. By 2021, church subsidies increased more than six times compared to church subsidies in 2010. I think it is very important, and it is worth talking about the charitable activities of the churches in relation to the Russian-Ukrainian war, that the largest charitable organizations in Hungary, with the exception of one, are all religious backgrounds; it is the Red Cross, which is not a religious background. We are constantly seeing work being done in transit zones, such as Hungary in the BOK Csarnok, Budapest or in several regions where the needy are helped, which is of particular importance when 10-12 thousand refugees arrive from Ukraine every day. In addition to the state authorities and local governments, the church charities are those and non-christian charities, by the way, which stand on the front lines and do their best to ensure that those who flee from a very terrible war and had to leave their lives behind are uncertain about their future, and do not know what will happen to them, receive the necessary spiritual, physical support, receive food, receive medication, receive children's education articles, if necessary, get accommodation. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, I have been personally convinced that these church charities are doing their job at the highest professional level, while their humanity remains, their conscience remains, and the humane attitude that is needed to do such work remains. Moreover, there is a greater spotlight on charities during such a war, but let us face it that every day, every week, with a school start-up program, an advent fundraiser action, a continuous presence in the poorest regions and villages, these charities do a great deal to make Hungary a better place, to develop continuously. This is the only place I can thank you for your work. In 2022, it was HUF 84 billion, next year, in 2023, according to the bill, it will be HUF 99 billion. I wanted to bring the church subsidies here not only because I think it is very important and correct that the state supports the Church's role and community-building activities, but also because there was a parliamentary election recently, and in its campaign and the period before that, we heard countless voices from the left that it would have taken the Church's support, as it did before 2010, because we can remember that the cabinet led by Ferenc Gyurcsány took part of the state's contribution to the maintenance of church social and educational institutions, and that they continued after the Constitutional Court otherwise stated that it was illegal. After the decision of the Constitutional Court, Ferenc Gyurcsány did not return the rightful support due to church institutions. We can recall that Gergely Arató said that he would take away a significant part of the resources of the ecclesiastical educational institutions, that they would remove the confessional secret, that Congresswoman Ágnes Vadai even submitted a legislative proposal to abolish the secret of confession. This is serious because even the Communists didn't try it, the Nazis alone tried to do it in Germany and Ágnes Vadai is such a fancy company, if you will. We have heard such constant anti-religious and anti-religious outbursts about the left, which show two things: on the one hand, they hate everything that is valuable and valuable, and on the other hand, that they are afraid of the community organizing power of churches, and they think it is particularly harmful or do not yet know the most benign attitude of the incredible work that churches do in Hungary. However, when they were on the government, despite many, many legislative proposals, they did not settle the role and system of the business churches, and they allowed the business churches to act by taping state resources, and the business churches, which did not carry out real religious, religious activities, to obtain government funds from Hungarian taxpayers. Fortunately, in the post-2010 period, the Orbán governments resolved this problem, and there is a very clear, very clear church law in Hungary today. Overall, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say, in addition to yesterday's speech, that the budget is basically a set of numbers and technical proposals, how we will jointly spend the available resources in 2023, according to the Parliament's decision. I think the budget is much more than that hundreds of pages in front of Secretary of State of Banai. The budget is a value choice, the budget sets objectives that show where governance is in the direction of supporting families, protecting the reduction of overhead costs, improving the country's security, supporting value-based programmes and communities, which I was just talking about. For this reason, overall, I can tell you that in a fundamentally difficult economic situation, it is necessary to implement a disciplined budget and to plan a disciplined budget. The fact that there has always been more in all important areas over the past 12 years shows that responsible farming, responsible tax policy and economic development have brought fruit and that this has allowed for a steady increase in all areas over the past 12 years, the expansion of resources on education, health, support for families or even church politics. [[8.40]] That is why I consider it important to see these figures in the current budget, even in a difficult situation. So what I can say to you, overall, is that those who are interested in these goals, such as family support, the protection of families, military development, the development of forces, the importance of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, the importance of Hungarian families, can vote in favour of this budget with a calm heart, because, although there is a difficult economic situation, we see that in Hungary over the last 12 years we have built a shock-resistant economy in which everyone was needed, small and medium-sized enterprises, large companies, Hungarian economic policy and all Hungarian workers. Therefore, we thank them from here, and we hope that we can continue to work together together for Hungary. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-24-8	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Löcsei, Momentum Group.
u2022-06-24-9	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to present to you the cost-altering proposals I have tabled. [[Sic!]] . First of all, I would like to mention two items belonging to my constituency. Ladies and gentlemen, In the life of a small settlement, it is a huge step forward when the discharge of communal waste water has been resolved. Unfortunately, over the past few years we have received many promises of infrastructure development in the 60th constituency, including in the settlements of the South Heves region. Of course, there are settlements where they are solved, such as Tarnamera, Nagyfüd, Bocónád, which we are all happy about, of course. At the same time, the improvement of the quality of the environment and the possibility of catching up also justify further improvements in the municipalities of Zaránk, Tarnaörs, Erk, where, unfortunately, the discharge of the resulting communal waste water has not been resolved. A total of 4280 inhabitants live in the four settlements. The resulting waste water is collected by the population in closed and desiccating waste water storage facilities. Municipal liquid waste is partly discharged into the surrounding sewage plants, and in part, let us say it frankly, into the back. Due to the proximity of the municipalities, it would be useful to set up a Community sewage treatment network and a waste water treatment plant. The taxpayers' money should finally be spent on people's well-being. Tarnaors, Pilgrims, Eriks and Visneks deserve a clean, healthy environment. I would therefore like to ask my fellow Members to support the allocated amount in the proposal for a cost-altering proposal for these infrastructure improvements. The next development and investment is also in the 60th constituencies, it is not a huge sum, but at the same time it is a bigger problem for the people living here. Ladies and gentlemen, The Jászfényszaru-Hatvan-Apc has now been built in several stages, which we are of course pleased to have. First, the Hatvan-Happy section was built, but unfortunately, the construction of the happy connection section was cancelled, i.e. from Hatvan to Happy height, now the bicycle path was built on Zagyva loading, but unfortunately the section connecting it to the solid road section of the Happy village is missing. The missing section is a fraction of the overall length, but its significance is much greater. You could turn the bike residents of the Happy Village into the 60th and Jaszfényszaru jobs so that they can do this not only on narrow roads. In addition, schoolchildren and tourists could use this route in both directions. The length to be built would be 1.7 kilometers, which would be about 300 million forints away from the current budget. So, it's not a huge sum, but at the same time, it's more important than that. So I would like to ask my fellow Members to support my cost-altering proposal. Dear fellow Members, Being a poor child in a school environment is a great disadvantage and challenging years for young people with a difficult fate. Believe me, my fellow Members, because I started out in a similar environment, but I still graduated and got a degree. For such a young man, there is only one way to break out, and that is to study. I believe that my success is not due to the school system that creates equal opportunities, and in my studies, I have been brought together with several well-meaning, dedicated teachers who may have found value and opportunity in me; who, I can say, have always pushed me a little further, and I am very grateful to them to this day. That's how I went from vocational school to vocational high school to college. With this, I would like to point out to you that we cannot trust fate, and fortunately, the fate of young people from disadvantaged situations, the Hungarian state has an obligation to establish a single school system accessible to everyone from birth to higher education. But this is not only an obligation for the state, but also, in my opinion, our well - understood interest, that any child makes the most of his gifts. It is a well-known fact that the equal opportunities for children have not been achieved in our country. In higher education Hungary there is only 1.4 percent of the disadvantaged and still less than 0.8 percent of the Roma, while the proportion of disadvantaged people is approximately 10 percent of the school system as a whole. That is why I feel it is very important that we expand the talent program of János Arany, and it is also very important that we finally get it where it is needed most. I therefore propose to double the number of participants in the programme in my proposal for a cost adjustment in this regard, and I would also like my fellow Members to support this. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to look at education as an investment and not as a minimum cost. That is why I think it is important that Dr. Ámbédkar's Roma ethnicity technique is given greater financial appreciation, because they do invaluable work, giving hundreds of disadvantaged young people hope that a 16-year-old child should not have public work, lack of prospects, but learning the future. The development of the Dr. Ambédkar High School in Miskolc into a technique is the culmination of a multi-annual process. In recent years, the Hungarian government has provided the high school with a dorm building, the Ministry of Innovation and Technology has installed a modern computer park, and OTP Bank has also supported it with a significant amount of support. The exemplary work of Dr. Ambédkar Technicum and Martin Luther King College is also remarkable because it is the only ethnic institution actually run by Roma. Its funding is unsolved due to the expiry of the public education agreement, which is why I would like Dr. Ámbédkar school budget to be supported by the current government. I contacted them, and both institutional leaders formulated certain items, without which they will not survive in the future. I would like to list a few items for you: catering for disadvantaged students 20 million HUF; travel costs for disadvantaged students living in remote villages for 5 million HUF; travel costs for teachers and social workers for 5 million HUF; operation and maintenance of buildings for 10 million HUF; rental of sports premises for 1 million HUF. I believe that these are so insignificant costs in the Hungarian budget, but at the same time it is very important that this school really creates value and helps hundreds of disadvantaged young people to learn further, it is vital for them to accept my cost-modifying proposal, honourable Members. Thank you very much for listening, and I would like to encourage you to accept my cost-altering proposals, because it would be a major step forward for all of us both in my constituency and in education, on which our safety of life could depend. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2022-06-24-10	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Péter Ovádi, Fidesz Group. [[8.50]]
u2022-06-24-11	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The budget for 2023 is the budget for public health and defence. Breathing from the trials of the coronal virus epidemic, we found ourselves at war next door. The Government of Hungary has dealt with the economic effects of the coronal virus epidemic as an example, and has seen the opportunity to improve instead of restricting. We protected the Hungarian people, because the focus was on preserving jobs and creating new jobs. However, the current situation, the prolonged war and sanctions in Brussels have brought about a completely new situation, with significant price increases throughout Europe, and energy prices skyrocketing. We agree that the most important task now is to preserve Hungary's peace and security, and to ensure the country's energy supply and to protect the cost reduction. Ladies and gentlemen, It is very important that, when discussing each budget, we say what opportunities have been opened up in recent years, both for small settlements and for large cities throughout the country. In the 1st constituency of Veszprém county, a number of improvements have been made in recent years, and several large-scale investments have started. Thanks to the program of the Hungarian village, the 24 settlements of the constituency can hold nearly 250 successful applications worth more than 2.5 billion HUF. But let us see exactly what this means for a small settlement; for example, there is the town of the constituency in Bakony, Italy. Since 2019, the thousand-man settlement has had 11 successful Hungarian villages with a total value of 92.5 million. A section of the sidewalk, municipal road, municipal cemetery has been renewed in the settlement, and it is also possible to purchase equipment for the maintenance of open village bus and public areas. They did not miss the smallest ones, as the kindergarten was renewed in the settlement which was popular with young families, and the settlement was enriched with new playthings. I am very pleased that, in these difficult times, the government is paying special attention to small settlements and the flagship programme of the countryside continues, and in 2023, the Hungarian village is included in a separate budget line. We should also not forget about the programme of modern cities, where Veszprém, the city of queens, is developing. In 2016, the government and the municipalities formed an alliance to build a strong Hungary. As part of this alliance, this program was launched. It seemed like a dream at the time, now it's real. It is real, because many investments are already being used and loved not only in Veszprém, but also in the region. For example, the completely renewed Antal Chermák Music School, or the nationally unique professional park Veszprémi Iparos Park, the Veszprém Sports Swimming Pool or any of the largest tourist attractions in the region should not be forgotten, the constantly renewed Veszprém Zoo. There are programme elements that are still in progress and will be completed in 2023. For example, the development of the southern bypass in Veszprém or the first stage of the reconstruction of the Petőfi Theatre in Veszprém. In 2023, Veszprém and the Bakony-Balaton region will become Europe's cultural capital, with investments also being made from state resources. For example, the renovation and filling of the former Heim Pál Children's Hospital with a new function, or the renewal of the former Ruttner's House. I would like to thank the Government of Hungary for its commitment to the success of the programme, and it will also provide the necessary resources in 2023. I'm sure the holiday year will be a success, and it can bring a little light to everyone in their everyday lives. I would also like to invite everyone to the 2023 programmes, including all my fellow Members, of course. I am very pleased that family support will continue next year, that the 13th month pension will remain, which will rise to the level of inflation, and that the 1 million new jobs that have been created since 2010 will be preserved, and that the people living in Veszprém and its region will be able to continue to enjoy the beneficial effects of these measures. One word, as a hundred, the budget of 2023 clearly shows that the Government of Hungary protects the country's security, the reduction of the rent, jobs, pensions, families and ensures the security of our country and the development of the forces. I therefore call on my fellow Members to support the budget for next year. That's what I'm gonna do. Let's go, Hungary! [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-24-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Statement will be made by Ms Zita Gurmai, MSZP Group. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2022-06-24-13	Thank you very much. Mr President, Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary. The Fidesz government is in a comfortable position, because the current draft budget, the salad law preparing next year's budget, is not read by a large majority of people. An average voter, including the Fidesz voter, will not look through this entire material and will not see the future from the lines of the draft budget and from certain points of the salad law. However, if you could read it and see it through, you would draw from the lines of the budget proposal put forward by the Fidesz Government that you would not vote for the government that prepared this budget plan. Because this budget does not want a developing, healthy, happy and stable country. This budget is a budget of uncertainty. It's a budget of uncertainty, because it keeps low-income earners in suspense. It can be seen from the budget lines that the government spends less resources on the social area in proportion to GDP than in previous years, while the increase in prices is brutal, poverty is increasing, and total social layers are breaking down. People need to be safe and not insecure, so we need to start the real catch-up in the social field right now. Resources must be mobilised to narrow the scissors between the richest and the poorest. This is a budget of uncertainty, because it keeps health and health care workers uncertain. The necessary and indispensable wage development that health care desperately needs cannot be read from the budget lines. However, this would be the key to solving this area, since 30 percent, and even 50 percent, are considered to be an immediate wage increase in the entire healthcare workforce segment. According to professional analysis, 10,000 doctors, 30,000 nurses and nurses are absent from health care for normal functioning. Doctors and nurses reaching retirement age will retire as soon as possible, and young people with medical education will rather work abroad because their skills are compatible with medical institutions in Western Europe. If there will be no very serious wage development in health care, then within a short period of time the previously indicated shortage of doctors and nurses will increase to multiple times. This is a budget of uncertainty, because it keeps education uncertain and keeps education workers in a precarious state. It is not clear from the budget that the government wants to improve education. However, it would be necessary to modernise and digitise classrooms and educational tools, and it would be necessary to organise wages for teachers. The high and modern education of young people is the future of our country. Due to automation and the expansion of artificial intelligence, many tens of thousands of jobs will be lost in the future, and tens of thousands of jobs will be created that will require new types of knowledge to fill. This should already show the necessary financial background for the following, which is a high-quality modern tool and progressive curriculum, a well-educated teacher who has paid and appreciated at the level of their knowledge. It's a budget of uncertainty, because it keeps pensioners in suspense. It is precisely due to the fact that the pension increase in the budget lines, which is subject to deliberate under-planned inflation, is not going to be able to follow ever more brutally rising prices. This year, too, we have seen that pensioners are the biggest losers of runaway inflation. Well, they can't feel safe in the future either. [[9.00]] This is a budget of uncertainty, because it keeps entrepreneurs uncertain. From the budget lines, the submitted salad law and the regulations of the past period, a vision is drawn up for entrepreneurs that gives them complete uncertainty, even though entrepreneurs need a stable, predictable and predictable economic environment. Now, for example, some 450 thousand entrepreneurs have no idea what the expected costs will be in the future. Or, for example, medium and large companies cannot be safe, because at any time, any extra tax or other burden may be imposed on them by the Fidesz government. This is a budget of uncertainty, because it keeps local governments in a precarious state. It appears from the budget lines that there is continuing to be bleeding out and total financial inability of municipalities. Thus, in order for the municipalities to survive, they will be absolutely dependent on state extra money, additional resources and tender money. I suspect this is how the Orbán government bases the personal power of the Archbishops and the total dependence of the municipalities on Fidesz. This is a budget of uncertainty, because the budget plan itself is uncertain. It's uncertain because it's based on hurrah-optimist growth numbers. Uncertain, because the inflation plan in it would be a miracle. Uncertain, because the projected euro exchange rate and dollar exchange rate are completely unrealistic. It is uncertain, because on the revenue side there are also numbers that, as it stands, can only be achieved by raising taxes on the population, but we do not see the amendment of the tax law. It is uncertain because it also includes an EU resource on the revenue side, which is unlikely to be considered in addition to the current Orbán governance. It is uncertain because, as many of my fellow Members have pointed out, some items are not in the right line. The whole plan is quite weak. The kind of security and thoroughness that could provide a stable basis for the country, the people, is lacking in the budget plan. Here in the world of numbers, the dream drawing of the propaganda machine in Rogan can't work. These are data on which a professional and non-political debate should be conducted. This is a budget for uncertainty and austerity for people. Yes, my fellow members of the Government, that is a austerity. They argue that the government spends more money on a number of areas than in 2022, because this increase in some important areas compared to last year does not achieve realistic two-digit inflation. For example, it has so much higher income, which suggests a tax increase in personal income tax. Or, for example, we also know that the extra tax on multinationals will be paid by people and that the government will not be able to prevent it. But saving on the expense side doesn't start with the government on its own. All we need to do is watch the ministry's operating costs increase. So this is a austerity budget, this is a budget of uncertainty. Thank you. [[Dr. László Keresztes applauds Lóran.]]
u2022-06-24-14	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-24-15	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The government's budget for 2023 is the budget for the protection of overhead and defence. I do not know what Mrs Gurmai Zita MSZP, who spoke before me, read before her speech, but that is for sure not the draft budget for 2023. Perhaps the draft budgets and even budgets submitted earlier by the Gyurcsány government were accidentally put into his hands, and that is why he was talking about austerity and similar visions. So once again, ladies and gentlemen, the budget submitted by the Government for 2023 is a budget for protecting the reduction of the overhead and for defence. Fidesz-KDNP is also guided by the goal of the Hungarian people and the interests of Hungary. Therefore, Hungarians can count on us in all situations, in peacetime, in migration time, during an epidemic and now in the war period. In the last 12 years, Hungary, under the leadership of the national Christian government, has stood its ground, the Hungarian economy has become strong, and despite the crises, it has remained strong. In fact, we can be proud that in Europe we came out of the economic downturn caused by Covid the fastest and most successful, so in 2021 our GDP growth was 7.1 percent, which had risen to 8.2 percent by the first quarter of this year. The number of employees has also reached a record, incomes have also increased, and many investments have been made. Ladies and Gentlemen, The fact is that the spring of 2020 [[Sic!]] Since then, since the outbreak of the Russian-Ukrainian war, we have had to face more serious crises and uncertainties. We have to assume that the war is going on, which means that its economic effects are getting more serious from month to month. The government has therefore put forward a proposal for a fiscal law which takes into account the effects of the sanctions imposed, the consequences of the energy crisis caused by the war, war inflation and the economic crisis that is emerging in Europe. In this situation, it is of particular importance that we maintain the stability of our country and continue to improve the balance indicators, and therefore we must continue to pursue a disciplined fiscal policy, as we have done over the past 12 years. The fifth Orbán government will continue to keep its word in the current situation, so we will use the resources of the 2023 budget to support the Hungarian people, that is to say, the support of families, the protection of pensions, the preservation of the result of the reduction, the strengthening of the country's security, the preservation of jobs and the promotion of the creation of new jobs, as well as to keep the Hungarian economy on a safe growth path. Ladies and Gentlemen, We protect our results, we create reserves, we help families and businesses, and we also help companies to continue their investments. In the structure of next year's budget, the previous funds will be replaced by two new ones: the Rezségvédelmi Fény, which is nearly 700 billion HUF, and the Hungarian Defence Fund, which will be available at nearly 900 billion HUF. The Rezségvédelmi Alap allows Hungarian people not to pay the price of war and failed Brussels sanctions policy. The defence fund is important because the preservation of Hungary's peace and security, I believe, cannot be the subject of debate on the part of any faction, not even on the part of the opposition groups. The funding of the two funds is provided by solutions that do not impose additional burden on Hungarian people, but require greater social involvement from those sectors that have achieved extra profit in recent years. Ladies and Gentlemen, As Chairman of the Judicial Committee, I would like to talk about the chapter on the draft budget for next year, namely Chapter X, which concerns the enforcement of the government's judicial policy. The Ministry of Justice contributes to Hungary's development by creating, simplifying and making it more transparent, and coordinating legal harmonisation and reducing administrative burdens. The aim is to protect Hungarian constitutional identity and strengthen its international acceptance. The Mádl Ferenc Comparative Law Institute, under the control of the portfolio, supports domestic legislative activity by carrying out international comparative legal research and analysis, making a major contribution to improving the quality of legislation. [[9.10]] In order to increase its international legitimacy and recognition, it examines the application of legislation with a scientific need and facilitates international comparative legal relations and cooperation. The aim of the Ministry is to emphasise European policy based on the cooperation of mutually respected nations, the Sovereignist European policy, which also provides an important background for Hungary's Permanent Representation to the European Union. As in recent years, the IM will pay particular attention to increasing public trust in justice in 2023. In order to expand victim support centres into national networks by 31 December 2025, there are 11 victim assistance centres and 3 victim assistance points in different parts of the country for 2022. Three additional victim support centres will be opened in 2023. The maintenance and further development of legal training, previously set as a central objective, will continue to require the maintenance of a system of research in the field of legal sciences and the support of talent in the field of legal science. In order to ensure this, the Ministry considers it important to further motivate the students of the law school during the day, to increase their professional awareness and to achieve better results, as well as to support research and educational development programmes at the university. Data on legal persons and other legal entities involved in public, social and economic life, ladies and gentlemen, are currently included in different registration systems led by several different authorities, and it is therefore extremely important to standardise them. With the establishment of a single register, support services will be developed to serve both the judicial and customer sides. The new registration structure makes it possible to fully digitise registration and change registration procedures, which simplifies and shortens procedures. In the future, the Ministry of Justice will continue to place an increased emphasis on and will also put forward in the year 2023 under Article XVI of the Fundamental Law. In accordance with Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the right of children to adequate physical, mental and moral development is to be guaranteed. Rethinking and further developing control practices aimed at improving consumer safety in consumer protection public tasks, increasing the efficiency of traditional official work, in particular by removing dangerous products from the market, and combating unfair commercial practices are also a key objective. The protection of consumers in online space will also be an important priority in view of the expansion and continuous change of social media. In order to prevent infringements, it is essential to increase citizens' consumer awareness and to promote the generalisation of enforcement by alternative incentive schemes. The resources available for achieving the objectives will be HUF 17.7 billion on the expenditure side of the institutions in 2023, and the appropriations managed by the chapter will amount to HUF 4.2 billion, and the revenue will amount to HUF 0.1 billion on the institutions' side, and the funding will be HUF 17.7 billion on the expenditure side and HUF 4.2 billion on the appropriations managed by the chapter. Ladies and Gentlemen, Chapter X of the budget proposal for 2023 includes the management of the Ministry of Justice, the Comparative Law Institute of Mádl Ferenc, the administration of the Permanent Representation of Hungary to the European Union, and the trends in expenditure and revenue of appropriations managed by the chapter. The budget proposal of the administration of IM, as I just said, contains HUF 10.2 billion in expenditure appropriations, with HUF 0.1 billion in revenue and HUF 10.1 billion in funding. As part of its core activity, the management of the IM performs the legal, economic, human policy, IT, functional and professional tasks necessary for its operation, and provides for a register of business registers and company information services. In its role as the Judicial Services Law Academy, it operates the institution for the sake of effective justice, which facilitates the uniform application of the law of territorial judicial services, as well as other services directly linked to the judiciary, through its professional control, methodological positions, the organisation of training and further training. The Central Family Bank Protection Service is responsible for the 2015 CV on the debt settlement of natural persons. by law, prepare impact assessments and contribute to the development and operation of the statistical information system in relation to the tasks of the central body of the Family Bank Protection Service, as well as related coordination and information tasks, as defined in the Act and the Implementing Regulation. The management of the IM, as an organisation responsible for the regulation and professional management of the victim protection area, shall ensure the establishment and operation of the national network of the GSKs, shall ensure the operation, maintenance and development of the integrated legislative system, as well as the operation of the written communication module of the National Legislative and related legal supervision. It also carries out the tasks of the economic organization of the Mádl Ferenc Comparative Law Institute, and carries out the tasks of personal and legal services in support of the operation of the Institute. Ladies and Gentlemen, The KDNP parliamentary group supports the adoption of the draft budget law, please support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-24-16	Thank you, Congressman, thank you, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr Berki, Mr Berki, Group of Dialogue, will be given a speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-24-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear House, Next year's Orbán package will make the daily livelihood of the Hungarian people even more difficult. There will be a food crisis, energy prices will be released, basic foods are already priceless because of loose inflation. Of course, inflation and weak forints are good for someone. Meanwhile, there will be no increase in wages in the public sector, no increase in teachers' wages, no increase in wages for health and social workers. We are talking about the people who look out, teach our children, help our elderly parents, or work day and night to ensure that most of our gypsy countrymen can finally live a decent life. But then let's see how vulnerable the Orbán package puts these sectors, the professionals working in them, and the countrymen they help. Today, the average salary of a social worker is HUF 164 600 net, according to KSH data. The social sector kicks their last. While social benefits were still 21,8 percent in the budget in 2010, only 18,1 percent in 2020, i.e. less and less support for the weakest people. [[9.20]] Social family support expenditure also decreased in proportion to GDP, from 2.1 per cent in 2010 to 1.4 per cent in 2020. The number of family allowances was 1 224 042 in 2010 and 1 073 101 in 2020. In Hungary 1.5 million people are confined to carrying out their everyday activities in terms of health problems. One of our second citizens with disabilities is severely affected, some three-tenth by their health. The majority of those affected are at a disadvantage in terms of working and learning. Overall, more than two thirds experience obstacles to participation in society. Every second person has a problem with transport; the proportion of those who are hindered by self-sufficiency reaches 30 percent. However, less than one third of health-damaged people receive a financial or in-kind allowance to reduce the additional costs. If we include relatives, we're talking more than 2 million people involved. The system of home care fees for children that can be claimed from 2019 is discriminatory in its current form and does not reach the minimum wage. Specialized care, home care, has serious problems. Because of the lack of money, the poorer municipalities are not able to properly carry out their mandatory tasks. According to the latest government decision on care premiums, care fees for children in need of long-term care were raised to HUF 100,000 per month, but the amounts of care premiums for adults, which are differentiated, remain extremely low. The pension supplement of 50,000 HUF/month is granted only to the parent who nursed the child of the serious patient at home for at least 20 years. The eligibility criteria have also been significantly tightened, since the recommendations of professionals have not been taken into account. It is possible that many of the autistics, epilepsy, or patients with glass bone disease, among others, will reach few points in the new system because they can use the toilet or dress themselves, so that on paper they may appear not to need full - day supervision. They don't get the support for families affected by Down's syndrome. But let's also talk about the situation of our children. According to the recent UNICEF report, the proportion of severely poor 0-17-year-olds in Hungary has increased almost three times since 2010. [[Bence Rétvári: That's not true!]] [[Bence Rétvári: That's not true!]] Among the countries of the European Union, the value of the indicator has increased most in Hungary. (Bence Rétvári: It's not true!) There has been a significant increase in the number of children living in severe poverty. While 77 thousand children belonged to this team in 2004, their number reached 126 thousand by 2019. While in 2004 one out of five children living in poverty and four out of five children in 2019 were considered poor by applying the lower poverty threshold. 74 percent of Hungarians live below the EU poverty threshold; the proportion of minors living in poor housing conditions increased from 19 to 27 percent. This is even more serious for the Roma population in Hungary, and I say this not only, but also for the government itself, because Miklós Vecsei, who is currently working as a Prime Minister and running a large-scale integration programme, has reported terrible figures about the situation of Gypsy in Hungary for two years. In the segments of the settlements participating in the programme, there was an average debt of 7-8 million on the land, so the first step is always the agreement with the local loan shark, regardless of the fact that the government's communication indicates that the loan sharking has been liquidated for over seven years. Vecsei told a story earlier when, in the 40 - degree heat, the service provider turned off the electricity in the neighborhood in 40 households. The question of exactly how many children are affected by the issue of poverty and Roma children in the most disadvantaged settlements, Vecsei said: unimaginably many. If only 10,000 children are deprived, it is a city full of people, but unfortunately the numbers are bigger, although there is a constant number war in this area. The misery must be treated as if it were an epidemic, and it must be fought until the very last moment, to the last time. Now the birth rate in our country is 1.49, which is better than it was a few years ago, but it's still low. [[Bence Rétvári interrupts.]] In particular, the average indicator of non-Roma people is 1.3, while 2.3 is the other's data. If we also take into account the fact that Roma women give birth at an average younger age, we can see that significant demographic changes can be expected. But the color of a child's skin doesn't matter. What matters is the quality of your life. Meanwhile, only 1.3 percent of Roma young people reach graduation, while among non-Romas this figure is 19.8 percent. But to be more specific, let's talk about the county of Nógrád, where I live. In Nógrád County, the average earnings were HUF 268 202 net in the first quarter of this year; in contrast, in Komárom-Esztergom County, HUF 320 120, while in Budapest HUF 425 586. These figures prove that there are amazing territorial inequalities in Hungary. Actions are the worst in the counties where most poor people live. The monthly average of registered job seekers in the county of Nógrád is 10 507; this is one of the worst figures in proportion to the population. The number of unfilled general medical practices is 33 in Nógrád county, of which 6 practice sites are located in Salgótarján, i.e. it is difficult for residents of small settlements, but even those living in the county seat to obtain general medical care. Emergency care is in a serious situation in the county, only two places to care for patients in such departments. In the county of Nógrád, the proportion of Roma population is 20-25 percent, most of them live in poverty and segregation, and their access to basic public services is therefore severely limited, on the basis of the figures just mentioned. In my proposed budget amendments, I ask the Government, Salgótarján, to support the possibility of ensuring competitive payments for urban operations in place of the public work programme, for example, by lawn-making or other snow-cleaning and other supply workers. I would also like the Government to support research on all social issues, because the basis for successful catch-up is a credible, accurate data survey. The aim of the research would be to explore data, in addition to demographic indicators, on the basis of which we can see how the school, employment and health indicators of children born in the city are developing. At the end of my speech, I would like to mention a few more specific things about the county of Nógrád, and this was in the programme of both winning pro-government candidates, and one in the Salgótarján-Sixvan and the other, I think, the Balassagyarmat-Aszód railway line. Anyone who has been to Nógrád County or knows about the county and our living conditions knows that almost all or many of us work not locally, but in several parts of the country, so he understands how important it is to improve rail transport, to improve public transport, especially with such petrol prices or expected petrol prices; this is not the case at present. But in preparation for the future, I think it is perfectly understandable that this is what our county needs, so I would also like to ask my pro-government colleagues, Mihály Balla and Zsolt Becsó, to support railway development in the county of Nógrád. Thank you for your cooperation, if that happens. I think they know how important this is to our county. The other very important issue is in Nógrád County, but I think it is also relevant to the rest of the country, and that is public security. In my amendment, I asked for the renewal of the police headquarters of Salgótarján County, which is because, if there are few police officers, the circumstances will be better, and thus prepared to hope that there will be even more police personnel in Salgótarján and Nógrád County. I do not know what the future will bring, but I would like to prepare for it, because it is very important, so public safety is essential for the rural people, but I think that applies to the capital or wherever we live. Of course, I put the watch next to the police station, because I'm a vigilante myself, and I think that when we know we're doing our part, we're doing our part, both on patrol and on duty, so we're creating public security. [[9.30]] It would therefore be very important to have a higher level of funding for the vigilante. This is not necessarily the solution, but on the way to the solution, hand in hand, I think it is also an important role, because many people voluntarily perform these public or police tasks in their spare time. The other thing is very important. Yes, there is a change in Hungary too, I say that there is a change in the life of Gypsy and Romaism, but there is still a lot of work to be done. I would like to draw attention to the fact that there are also settlements within the county seat, let us call them segregations, where there is still no fixed water or sewerage system. These are things that are now, I think, essential to normal living conditions. That is why I ask the government and my fellow Members, the county of Nógrád, to support Nógrád in this too, so that these settlements, these settlements, so that the development of public works can be even more pronounced and more spectacular, because this is a very important task. I would also like to reply to Congressman Nacsa about his speech on Christianity. Being associated with Christianity or sect is not a political issue of who belongs to it. I think that many people on the left are also members of churches, and I hope that, regardless of their political affiliation, the Church, members of the Church, and the Church, are also united. I believe that at some level the church and the state must divorce, so that both of them can perform their duties perfectly. I am in favour of any endeavor, I can really say, that promotes the functioning of churches. These are important to me, too, and I think that it is a priority for many left-wing people, especially for rural people, to live and exercise their faith. But it must also be accepted that there are those who do not belong to churches or churches, their interests and their principles must, of course, be respected, because it is the duty of the State to represent the interests of citizens. I can only trust that, and I can really ask for the support of fellow Members. It is a small county, and I apologize for speaking specifically about Nógrád, because it is my heart's concern, but, regardless, there is a need for greater investment in the whole region, in North-East Hungary and in other areas. This little county needs a lot of support, and that's why I mention the name of the county more often than the name of the city. That is why I wish to see parts in the 2023 budget that are actually, apparently, regardless of the political side, taking into account the intentions of the other side, really aim to improve people's lives; to make decisions that serve everyone's satisfaction. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the lines of LMP and DK.]]
u2022-06-24-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2022-06-24-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to respond quickly and correct some of the statements made by the Member on poverty, which do not stand up at all, and I am not saying this, and not by Hungarian bodies, but by Eurostat. You were talking about what is an important question, and you are indeed a measure of how much children grow up in poverty and how much they don't. Since this is an important issue, and the most important thing for all of us is our own child, and obviously the children, so it is important that we put what you said in order. Let me quote here Eurostat indicators at European level and at Hungarian level. In 2010, according to Eurostat, the proportion of people under 18 in the EU who are at risk of poverty or social exclusion, i.e. who grow up in a family where there is a risk of poverty, was 27.3% in the European Union and 38.7 in Hungary, according to Eurostat, in 2010. It's not necessarily the poor child, it's the child at risk of poverty, so it's the largest group of children I can watch. Fortunately, this fell from 27.3 percent to 23.2 percent in the EU, but in Hungary it decreased much more radically, from 38.7 percent in Hungary to 17.7 percent according to Eurostat. So, while in 2010 the number of children at risk of poverty was 38 percent, compared to 27 percent in Europe, it fell below the EU level in a decade, 23 percent in the EU and 17.7. So not only did we catch up with what we had compared to the EU average, but we have achieved over a decade that fewer children are at risk of poverty than in Europe in general. Therefore, please do not say that the greatest poverty among children in Hungary is that, according to Eurostat, we are not only the largest, but also, thank God, the safer half of the Union. But there are many dimensions of poverty, social exclusion, poverty, financial difficulties, low incomes for the statisticians, and I would like to tell you all here, which are relevant indicators in recent years. There is a dimension to poverty that risks poverty and social exclusion. That's what we were talking about before. Here, too, there was a large-scale decline, which is a positive change. There is a number of people in severe material deprivation. This means that daily expenses are a problem if they are larger, so not small daily expenses, but larger daily expenses. Here, the proportion of these children fell from 30 percent to 11 percent, so from nearly a third to about a tenth of the children. Relative income poverty: you must know that people with income less than 60 percent of the median income are included, so where the family income is low, this has decreased from 23 percent to 11.9 percent. The proportion of people living in families with low work intensity decreased from 14.8 percent to 5 percent. This last one may be one of the most important, because that's where we start. Why did these indicators improve? Not from themselves, not by accident, but precisely because a million more people work. You indicated in your speech that there is more or less social benefits. If a million more people work, that one million people no longer need social benefits, or they need less because they may have a low income, and besides, let's say, they need some kind of drug support or housing support in nature, but if there are one million more people working, then obviously fewer people need social support. We have also increased the nature of the subsidies, of course, if I just think that we have now increased the subsidies from 30 billion to 100 billion for children's meals, we are expanding the qualifying circle, and we are now spending 60 billion forints on home care instead of 15 billion, so when we increase the framework, these obviously grow. But the need for social assistance is substantially reduced if there are more workers, and that is why fewer children are in poverty and poverty, because on the one hand more parents work, and on the other hand parents raising children do not pay taxes. Personal income tax on average income, three children, let's say they don't pay, and they can deduct it from contributions if they can't deduct it from taxes. That is why these numbers exist, so this is not magic and other things, but this is the result of a conscious policy based on work and family support that, to one of the greatest extent, in Hungary, the proportion of children at risk of poverty could actually fall from 38 per cent to 17 per cent. That is why I ask you not to say that in Hungary, although there are undoubtedly some of the children who live in a deprived family, but for those who are helped by food packages, free catering and many other ways, this is reflected in these numbers. You also claimed that there will be no wage increases in the human sector next year. Honourable Congressman, Doctors will have a raise, teachers will have a raise, which the government has already decided on. So please don't say that, because there will be a wage increase in health care and education, and you will stand up here in Parliament... but we also know that there will be 10 percent in teachers, we know that the last part of the two-and-a-half-fold increase in medical wages will be 10-11 percent of next year as of January 1st, do not stand up in Parliament without a wage increase when we know that there will be a wage increase! So please take these social aspects into account, and together let us be glad that, thank God, there are less deprived people, and together, there really is a settlement in my constituency where there is a segregation where we need to help the people there, so together with Miklós Vecsei, quoted by you, we started a project from 400 million forints, from which we also try to give the people living there a perspective. So I don't want to deny that there's such a problem. Every week in my own district, I try to help them get help, and we really did a lot of things, and we did it, so I don't waste any time on how much to really improve their living conditions for the people there, and there really are more orderly courtyards, more normal lighting, heating in the houses. [[9.40]] So these must be done, but please do not lie in the big numbers that Hungary is in a worse situation than it is. And I'd like to say two things very briefly. You were in favour of railway constructions. I would ask you to convince your fellow Members on the left here. You were not here in the previous term, for example, Mr Keresztes, convince him not to oppose railway construction [[Dr. László Keresztes, Lóránt is intruding.]] because I have heard him speak here at least half a dozen times, and he said that there is no need for the Budapest-Belgrade railway [[Dr. László Keresztes nods Lóránt.]] and should not build such railways. Discuss among yourselves, convince him that rail transport is the most environmentally friendly land transport and does not oppose railway construction; perhaps a consensus can be reached in several parts. And the last thing you said was that the relationship between politicians and churches should be separated. We have also accepted this in the Fundamental Law, but also, let us say, if you are here telling Ferenc Gyurcsány and other fellow Members this idea when you are protesting against the government with Gábor Iványi, then it might also be worthwhile to put these aspects into ordinary practice on the side you have said. But we also believe that it is in the interest of the churches and of the state to operate separately, but obviously, regardless of whether you are religious, you still have a political position, and a politician can have a world view, which he does not have to hide, thank God, 32 years ago in Hungary. So this part, part of the freedom of religion, is guaranteed to everyone, but indeed, on such political conflicts as in the case of Gábor Iványi, it is worth considering, as you have said, Congressman. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-24-20	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Judit Czunyiné Bertalan, Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2022-06-24-21	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for the floor, and allow me to make a thematic speech as a member of the Judicial Committee in the budget review of the tasks under the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice, given that the activities of the Ministry of Justice must serve the service of legal certainty for Hungarian citizens in this difficult time, so it is of particular importance, I think that, in addition to the budget of the central budget of 2023 for the protection of pensions and defence, that, in addition to providing our external security along the Russian-Ukrainian war situation around us, we should also have sufficient support and sufficient resources for the tasks of the judicial portfolio which represent the internal, domestic security of Hungarian people. But before I talk about this, because President Vejkey, President of the Justice Committee, has just broken down a few budget lines under IM budget chapters in detail, allow me, partly because I have been a participant and listener in budgetary debates since several cycles, and on the other hand, I have more reason to remember governments before 2010, well, less glorious budgetary debates and exploits, let me have some thoughts, because in man, if not, his sense of justice will be raised, and when left-wing benches stand up with an unprecedented lie, and when they talk about austerity measures in the negotiations of a budget, which is the first and most important goal of the Hungarian people, when they were the first and most important goal of the security of Hungarian families, when the first and most important goal was the Hungarian family, when the first Hungarian family was to be safe and secure. My fellow Member Berki and my fellow Member Gurmai, although none of them are in the Chamber at the moment, [[The president indicated that Sándor Berki was in his position as notary.]] a few numbers, just for the sake of the facts, because, well, arguing with facts is a little harder, although we also remember from before 2010 that the facts are stubborn, but still left-wing governments are not interested. Let's have a look. Between 2002 and 2010, economic growth was not an increase, because its prognosis was negative, minus 6.6 per cent, and now, between 2010 and 2022, plus 7.1 per cent, while there was a pandemic, for which there were also economic effects which, by the way... I am brave to say that I come from an area where, in 2008-09, hundreds of people were fired day after day by companies and companies, and now during the pandemic, we have managed to maintain jobs, so we are now in a period of economic growth in comparison with minus 6.6 after an additional 7.1 economic growth. It is worth the unemployment rate, I can see the smile on the faces of my fellow left-wing Members, but it may be good to remember, because many people forget that the government took over the country's role in 2010 with an unemployment rate of around 12 percent, namely 11,7 percent, and the unemployment rate today is 3.6 percent; it is obviously uneven in different places in the country, but if government performance is closely monitored, they also see that an investment and investment incentive policy has been implemented in all areas of the country. The employment rate until 2010 is 56.4 per cent, today 74.3 per cent. The number of people employed increased from 3.8 million to 4.7 million, so we have one million jobs, let us not forget that, and let us not forget that, thanks to this stable, predictable employment, we could also take all the family support measures that Minister Retvári has responded to in his speech here in the previous comment, let us say, to claims that are not really appropriate to reality. The corporate tax burden, because it doesn't matter what kind of employer environment people work in from 55 percent to 32 percent between 2010 and 22 percent compared to the pre-2010 era. The administrative burden has also been reduced. Personal income tax also decreased. Do you remember him? It was a 36-percent transmitter, now it's a 15-percent one-key transmitter. The employer's burden has been reduced from 33.5 percent to 13. Family tax incentives, compared with the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments, increased by HUF 12 billion to HUF 980 billion. So the result of the political and economic performance of the last ten years is that today, along a Russian-Ukrainian war, we will be able to negotiate the budget for defence, reduction of overhead and security and, hopefully, accept it with the support of my fellow Members. Allow me to do a few more things. I can't ignore the last comment in front of me either. I support all regional development, because infrastructure is important. Let us also remember that before 2010, the MSZP governments, the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments, closed and closed railway wing lines. So what are we talking about, fellow Members? They are making cuts and talking about Orbán packages, while the central budget of 2023 continues to provide HUF 371.8 billion for the 13th month pension that you so elegantly, referring to the financial crisis in 2008, has been withdrawn and not granted. The focus of family support remains on supporting the role of women in the family and supporting women's retirement. I remember that in March, several people were alarmed about the 40s pension for women, but they continued to provide all the support schemes that the government has undertaken, but also beyond that, since pensions are already rising by 3.9 percent from July 2022 and will be paid back to January. So, dear fellow Members, you may want to undress past sins in oblivion here, but I think that it is strange, but in any case dissonant, my fellow Members on the left, this budget, which has the highest security of the Hungarian people in its focus and system of purpose, to address such adjectives. [[9.50]] If I have already been spoken and thanked, then allow me to make this evidence to the left-wing speakers in front of me. From this, I think, the most prominent way of showing the difference between budgetary approaches is the evolution of budgetary and economic indicators between 2002-2010, compared with the ratio of indicators between 2010 and 2022. In view of this, allow me to focus a few more thoughts on the tasks of the Ministry of Justice, which are covered by the judicial portfolio. I mentioned that in Mr President's statement before me, he said a lot about the importance and security of the budget chapter of the wallet. That's why I'm here, too, 'cause I'd like to pick up a few of them. I believe that, in this situation, when in Europe, due to the war that is taking place next to us, in an economic situation and in legal security situations, there must be good answers for the safety of the Hungarian people, it is important to have the necessary ammunition and toolbox for the judicial portfolio. Of course, the activities of legal research, scientific work and pre-research are important, and legal training is important, but I think that, in this cycle, the secure operation of the Permanent Representation to the European Union may be of particular importance, so that it can provide the appropriate professional, legal and competence background to represent Hungarian law and national law in Brussels. And it is equally important, among other things, that Minister of State Rétvári referred to this because of the support of families and the focus of child protection and victim support. I believe that the protection of children's rights and the retention, enforcement and protection of legal certainty of children are a priority and important task. In recent years, Madam Secretary has put this on the flag of the Ministry as a priority. It is very important that it can continue to report and serve the safety of Hungarian families. But it is equally important that the Ministry now has a range of consumer protection tasks. This is particularly important when we are fighting in the European Union for the security of Hungarian citizens, to keep the debt reduction, so that the economic difficulties caused by the war situation are not paid by the Hungarian families, and we are price-stopping to protect Hungarian families. When there are conflicts in this too, it is important that the consumer protection system can fit in and provide security in such a legal environment and enforce consumer protection rights in a legal environment that protects them. So I think that the budget can maintain important and essential support systems in an environment where the Russian-Ukrainian war in Hungary has a negative impact on the inflation, budgets and price conditions of the whole of Europe, then the Hungarian budget can still maintain these security thanks to a predictable, secure, sound, thought-out fiscal policy. Perhaps I would conclude by saying that there are still a lot of us here who remember that this was not the way to react to the economic crisis in 2008. That was another financial crisis because it predicted a financial crisis that had already been seen from the movement of financial markets and from financial processes. Then what happened? All that happened was that in 2006, the famous lie was in the morning, at night and at night, so it was basically a lied budget policy. After 2006, no smart fiscal and economic policy crisis management took place, but the pair of Gyurcsány and Bajnai led the country into the abyss. Cutbacks, 13th month's pension and 13th month's wages, we're not doing that now, we're not doing that, we're taking back decisions, and, moreover, we're adopting a Hungarian budget in a concrete cloud of lies. On the other hand, in an unforeseen and barely recovering economic environment from a pandemic period, we can today negotiate a budget for the protection of the Hungarian people, the Hungarian families, the defence of the country and the preservation of the public debt reduction, honourable Members. I would like to thank the staff of the portfolio responsible for budgetary policy for the predictable, calm and wise planning that enables us to negotiate the budget for 2023 today. I would like to thank the wallets for their cooperation in which they were able to keep the focus within the government's economic policy in terms of their wallets, so that we can go further, and in 2023 we can say that we are prepared for the year 2023 for the security of Hungarian people, both foreign policy and internal security. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-24-22	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Mrs Dóra Dúró, Vice-President of the House, rapporteur for our country. Here you go.
u2022-06-24-23	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Mi Hazank Movement misses the construction of the Hungarian national economy from this budget, which can be considered to be more of a multi-party budget than in the interests of the Hungarian people, and is clearly the losers of this proposal by public workers. I would first like to talk about the most important area. I think there can be no question what is the most important problem of our country today, as a way out of the demographic situation, because it is its alpha and omega of everything. In an economic sense, of course, because if Hungarian family policy and demography continue on the same track, public finances will simply become unsustainable and, on the other hand, the birth and safe rearing of Hungarian children and Hungarian children will be the most important thing for our Hungary. With regard to family policy, the government is used to defend itself with a lot of things, and there has been a lot of positive progress, this is without doubt, but it is the only measure of family policy, and this is whether the nation is growing in numbers or not, but losing weight. We have also seen over the past 12 years that we have failed to reverse the demographic trend that the government has experienced over the past 42 years. Indeed, fertility results have been achieved. And if something is to be considered an important measure, then the number of children per mother must be, and progress has been made. By the way, the low point was 2010-11, and from then on, fertility continued to grow in Hungary, which is unnecessary to argue with until now; because it is now once again showing a downward trend. Last year's number 1,59 was reduced to 1.5 in the first months of this year, so if ever, we have to ring the alarm bell now, because not only will we not be able to slow down our weight loss in the first period, it will turn to even higher levels. When I talk about Hungarian family policy and concern for the future, believe me that I have no political motivation or political will. I would like us to work together to solve the greatest strategy of Hungarians, because if we cannot talk about Hungarian children, then there is no point in talking about anything else, there is no point in working for anything else, because ultimately we want to hand over the treasures of Hungarian agriculture, Hungarian architecture, the Hungarian education system and health care to our children. We work every day to give them a better, better future. It is therefore important to speak frankly, without taboos, about family policy and seeking solutions. When Viktor Orbán announced the Family Protection Action Plan, he set the target of 2.1 fertility in Hungary by 2030, which would mean that the number of deaths would remain unchanged, that our nation could grow again in its number of souls. However, if we look at how much progress we have made in the last 12 to 13 years and how much time we have until 2030, we can see that this is probably not going to work. [[10.00]] Thus, even by 2030, it is not expected to reach a fertility figure that could make it a nation that is growing again in the population of Hungarians. It is very important, as I said, that we should talk about this without taboos, so I would also like to draw attention to the brutal decline that occurred in the number of children born in January and February, which took place in Hungary nine months after Tóth G. Csaba, researcher at the Institute of Economics of KRTK, drew attention to this, so it happened just nine months after the number of vaccinations in Hungary increased. This brought down the number of births with a nine-month shift. As a result, the birth of children was reduced by almost 20 percent in January compared to the pre-epidemic period. This has not been the case in Hungary for decades, so in recent decades there has been nothing in Hungary that has caused children to fall back in numbers such as the massing of vaccinations in Hungary. In this regard, I also recommend to you the joint video of Dr. Tamás Letoha and the President of our Hungary, which was released this week and I will not say your name because then, I cannot share my speech on Facebook, but, among other things, they also concern this issue. Therefore, even if the result of this is that fertility is reduced, it is necessary to carry out a very serious, very deep and very honest self-examination not only of the government, but of all of us, why we will not be able to break out of this crisis. I would like to touch on three areas that I believe are a reason, or at least contribute to, the birth of fewer children in Hungary. On the one hand, the Hungarian Movement proposes that family support already introduced should follow inflation. Even though the family tax reduction was introduced in 2011, and now not only tax relief, but also other contributions can be used, for example, the discount for three children introduced then would have been HUF 99 thousand; if it had been a follower of inflation and, to be exact, it would have been worth 234 thousand forints today. Therefore, more than twice the amount of this aid would be granted. The other is a very important area, which is also covered by Article 21 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. European figures of the century show the possibility of women returning to the labour market. In the generation of our parents, it was typical that the longer the mother was able to stay at home, the more children were born, this relationship now turned to the opposite. Thus, more children are born in countries where more women work and where reconciliation between work and family is more effectively facilitated by the state, such as the intraday care system for children. Unfortunately, however, Hungary still does not reach the EU average in terms of crèches. The third is a very important area that today in Hungary the commitment of the large family is still a greater risk of poverty than being retired. In the case of inflation monitoring, we also see that the law guarantees it in our country, quite rightly, that pensions are inflation followers, family support is neither those, nor that it is a law, and that it should be created. But in the case of pensions, it can also be said that mothers with three children, including mothers with large families, can start these years with an average pension of 20 percent lower than women with no children. So what we see is that gender is not the first thing in the labour market that determines that someone is at a disadvantage, so we should not be talking about the disadvantage of women in the labour market, but about the disadvantage of mothers in the labour market. Because we also see from the analyses that childless women can make the same careers in Hungary as men, but when the child is born, they will reach the same level of pay in the sixth year after the child is born. So it is a tragedy that we maintain and operate a labour market that punishes women when they have children. And this is a very serious issue and it is a problem to which the government should respond very quickly and very effectively. And if I have already mentioned pensions, Katalin Novak, when he was a family minister, and introduced the possibility of 40, women, then he said and, by the way, I agree with him that this is partly a family policy measure, that women can retire after 40 years. Our Hungary would like to take the initiative to extend this to men, because 28 percent of Hungarian men, almost one third of them, are not even worth the retirement age, and this rate is even worse than those who do physical work, so almost 50 percent for men who do physical work, who do not even reach the retirement age. So they work their whole lives, and they can't enjoy their retirements at all. After family policy, I would like to talk about the state workers' situation, and there was a strange, perverse situation that health, police and education all belong to Sándor Pintér's Ministry of Interior; only Nauru uses a similar departmental division, just like us. The entire public sector is characterised by a shortage of numbers and underpaid people, but perhaps one of the biggest problems is education and law enforcement. The nominally lower amount of law enforcement should be managed in the following year, as more than HUF 4 billion less will be allocated to this sector, the whole country in which the country's public security is lousy is outrageous. In many settlements, we find that there are not enough policemen, and even what the Ministry of Interior has promised to ensure, for example, in Kerepes, where shootings, drug trafficking are part of everyday life, in the mountains, in the streets, there is a district commissioner who should take care of all public security. It is obvious that this is completely surreal, and it is not expected that the public security of a settlement above ten thousand people will be ensured by a district commissioner. There is also an increasing shortage of staff in education, and we have already talked a lot about the wages of teachers here in this House, and I think it is very urgent that you resolve this issue. The argument that the government regularly makes in this case is not acceptable, namely that Brussels is to blame for the fact that Hungarian teachers do not have an increase in wages. Is it because the European Union... Otherwise, they rightly protest against withholding funds from political motivation, but education is a priority nation strategy sector in which problems, whether they are financing or professional problems, you should also be able to solve them from state resources. After all, what we give to teachers, we give to our children. And it is very important for them to see that they are people who spend more time with our children in institutions every day than we, family members, can spend with them. And that is why it doesn't matter to us what condition they stand there every day in front of 20 to 30 children, and what they radiate: peace, love, patience, integrity, or they have to spasm to pay their checks or rent at the end of the month. It doesn't matter what condition teachers are in. And in this whole situation, the government's insufferable response was that even their strike rights were hijacked with a TAB modification. That's a pretty shocking attitude. But you have two thirds of authority again, you can do anything, you can change the education bill, you can change the strike bill, you can do anything, but that's not gonna stop the problem. The protest may be quieter, they may take a means of protest out of the teachers' hands, they will still have to go into those classrooms from September, they will have to stand in front of our children, and they will be taught in the same way, and they will have to set an example every day. [[10.10]] Children's lives can be determined in a positive or negative sense. Our country wants to have as many positive examples as possible in front of our children, but it requires that we also value teachers. Thank you for your attention.
u2022-06-24-24	Thank you very much, Congresswoman, Madam Vice President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr András Aradszki, KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-24-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, When we hold a debate on a draft budget law, it is worth looking back at the past and drawing conclusions on what holds the budget for the previous years together and what keeps the budget for next year on the same footing. I see and experience from 2010 that the aspects of the law on the budget have already been reflected in the Fundamental Law, and these basic values and basic orientations have remained continuously in the budgets of recent years. In particular, it is about the need for Parliament to adopt a budget that serves the purpose of safeguarding Hungary's operation, security and future. In recent years, I have been happy to see and actually proud of the fact that we have developed a fiscal policy that has considered it important to keep the budget deficit as low as possible in Hungary, to achieve the Hungarian state's functioning without a deficit, and to help create a so-called work-based economy that aims to make fewer people benefit from aid and to make more sure that they can rely on their own skills, working forces and thus have added value to the life and development of Hungarian society. This, of course, required investments and an economic policy involving low unemployment and, as appropriate, a declining deficit in public debt. I see that from 2010 until today's draft budget, these basic values have appeared in the Hungarian budgets. We have kept these values, and we have kept the stability of our budget. The budget has always been able to address the problems that have arisen in life, outside circumstances that have brought in the last more than a decade. I will say only briefly, without detail, that we have always had difficulties, starting with the legacy of the Gyurcsány-Bajna era, the debt towards the EU and the IMF, which we have been able to repay in a very short time, with the red sludge disaster, the floods, the presence of migration, the presence of the coronal virus epidemics, which have had to be dealt with by our budgets, and now with the war in the neighbourhood, and the expenditure needed to overcome and eliminate them. We are also here today to identify priorities in the budget, knowing the deteriorating external political conditions, knowing the consequences of the coronal virus epidemic on the economy, and there must be no other conclusion than to maintain a move towards a work-based society and to ensure the functioning of the economy and the growth of citizens. Therefore, this budget must be nothing but a budget for reducing costs and defence, which is a security for both military policy, national security and citizens' livelihoods, and this is the economic policy direction in this draft budget. Hungary has stood its ground in the last decade, the Hungarian economy has grown stronger, and we have succeeded in coming out of these crises and difficulties that I have just mentioned, which is also indicated by the fact that the re-launch of the economy after the outbreak of the Crown Virus is a success for Hungary. In 2021 we were able to produce a 7.1 percent increase, which reached 8.2 percent by the first quarter of this year. This has also confirmed a prudent fiscal policy and a supportive economic policy that has kept jobs in place despite the epidemic. These jobs were expected after the economic re-opening, and they became the basis for economic growth. You can also see that the outbreak of the war was another challenge, which occurred on 25 February, if I recall correctly. We do not know the end, the exact date, but what you can see is that with sanctions and other negative effects, it has a strong impact on the situation of the Hungarian economy. The so-called energy crisis, the consequences of which must be taken into account by the Hungarian economy and the Hungarian budget, is an additional but essential element of this. (The President's seat is Dóra Dúró, Vice-President of the Parliament.) A few thoughts about the energy crisis. I think that, contrary to the wishes of the left, Hungary has done much to be independent of external sources in the field of energy. It is enough to mention that the energy strategy adopted in 92 was also meant to be independent of addiction. This has been the case for the construction of a number of cross-border lines, both gas and electricity lines, the development of the renewables system and its integration into the electricity system. So it wasn't up to us, and it wasn't up to us in the first place. Investment in neighbouring countries has also been missed, and it is not really our fault that on either side of the border there is Russian gas in that pipeline, resulting from the European trade system. The important content of the budget is that the government keeps its word, and this budget also sets out the objectives that are most important to Hungarian people, Hungarian families, and these are to ensure the support of Hungarian families and the protection of pensions, as I mentioned at the beginning, to preserve the value of the reduction of the rent and to strengthen the security of the country. In the bill, the government calculates a 4.1 percent economic growth and a 3.5 percent deficit-to-GDP deficit target, with 73.8 percent of gross domestic product with declining public debt and declining inflation figures. This shows that this budget continues to move towards a low budget deficit, a declining public debt and a growing growth in national goods. May God grant us that this will succeed, it will not be up to us, we hope that there will not be as negative and as negative as the budget, the external conditions that will further destroy the life of the Hungarian nation as I have just mentioned. We therefore hope that, instead of sanctions, the word of peace now reaches the decision-makers, because in this case it will be obvious that the legitimacy of this budget law will become clearer. [[10.20]] It is still well-founded because this draft budget is also taking strong protection measures and security measures. I am thinking of the Hungarian Defence Fund, which includes HUF 842 billion, as well as the Emergency Fund, which includes HUF 670 billion, and there is also a security reserve of 0.25 percent of the total national product. I think it is important to mention that the government will also provide increasing support for municipalities. This increase of some 95 billion makes it possible to keep up with the programme of modern cities with the amount of 969 billion, and to spend the remaining funds under the agreement with the cities. What I see is that there is an interesting duality in the local government world. The right-wing mayors overcome the difficulties, solve them, and act in the interests of the local people, and the left-wing mayors complain that this is not good, that this withdrawal is, that withdrawal is; and, of course, for two years, for example, the Erden of my constituency has not continued to invest in the programme of modern cities for political reasons. My rival, the mayor's wife, ran against me, had no interest in making public investments and thus perhaps to create a more favourable political climate. I hope that this will be over, and Érd will be able to join the circle of county-righted cities who have been able to complete and schedule the programme of modern cities from the means provided to them. I think it is important that economic growth has a very positive impact on local authorities, namely the increase in local industrialisation tax revenues. This can be seen in the most undeveloped settlements. For example, Érden, which is not one of the municipalities with a particularly high industrial tax force, was unexpectedly counted, counted, and behind it is the careful, forward-looking economic policy that ensures the development of the economy, and for which it is necessary to adopt a budget that supports these processes and promotes the successful development of the municipalities. I believe and hope that this draft budget law meets these criteria, because it follows our tradition of fair farming that has made Hungary's development successful since 2010. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-24-26	Welcome, fellow Members. Our next speaker is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, representative of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2022-06-24-27	Madam President, Dear House, When my little boy and I came to Parliament today and thought about what I should go through in my speech beyond the mandatory elements, I remembered that this government has spoken a great deal about family support. I am trying to support the government's objectives in terms of how to expand this family support system. But I have heard many times that they are repeatedly speaking about sustainability and legitimacy, but the very important demographic aspect that we should solve together, regardless of party standing, is often given little attention or, quite simply, statements that do not necessarily meet with reality. One of our most catastrophic demographic indicators is the number of live births at the moment. We can see that in 1990 more than 125 thousand newborns were born each year, so there was a very paradise compared to the present, even though the population was already in decline in Hungary. This is roughly the same age as me, so Hungary's population has been declining for a little over 40 years. We also see that the last year before the first Fidesz government of 1997 - 98 - was when the number of living births in Hungary was over 100,000, and since then there have been four years, and fortunately, when the birth rate fell below 90. These four years are the year 2011,, 13, 18, 19th. So, unfortunately, the lowest birth numbers fall for the period after 2010. Balliberian tellers do this to the government a lot, so, yes, that's the government's certificate, that's when the least children were born, it's all your fault. The reason I try to be more professionally correct is because we see that the number of women of childbearing age is constantly decreasing, which is why the number of children born is decreasing, which is why the government should not issue any kind of hurrah-optimist positive certificate about itself, because there is nothing to be so proud of; especially because, in the light of the latest data, the least children are born in Hungary now in written Hungarian history, and in the first three to four months of the year, there was so little live births, that at the end of the year, even an eighty or a few thousand figures can come out tragically wrong data. I've told you many times that if you're a traitor to this, you're a traitor. So I'm really rooting for these indicators to go a little higher by the end of the year. What is particularly painful is that the previously started fertility rate has again started to decline. So the number of Hungarian women of childbearing age is already decreasing, including a decrease in fertility rates, and, ergo, the number of live births is not expected to cause an explosion. It is therefore very difficult to take seriously the published study by the State Audit Office, where it is shown that the number of births is reduced, a red arrow is drawn and it is written that 110,000 per year would be needed. I would like to help you now to see how this 110 thousand could be achieved in some way; not now, but, let's say, 30 years from now, and this is slowly in the science-fiction category. In the first round, it is very, very important to see that the housing area has a very, very hard demographic projection. In Hungary, where you can get your own home at a horrific price, and where rent prices are quite brutal, you simply cannot expect a typical Hungarian youth to manage it on his own initiative. It is therefore worth examining what a government or parliament can add to this area. If we see that the government in this budget was also basically trying to impose the CSOK, the village CSOK and the means for which we should be glad that if someone could take them, they could make use of them, even if they were not always the most needy layers, but now, on the basis of the figures, we can see that a relatively narrow layer could not use the preferential loan, but rather the amount of support, and within this narrow layer, the whole structure did not necessarily contribute to the number of live births, to the birth of children, to the extent that the government promoted it. However, there are young Hungarians in typical living conditions, so they are not buying new apartments in residential parks, they are not family-house owners, they would need an affordable rent, rent, and they can be very helpful with the state foot and state support of housing savings. At the same time, Fidesz-KDNP stopped this for incomprehensible reasons. Fidesz probably didn't like the company that delivered most of these loans. I didn't like his operating model either. At a time like this, it's not the solution to plowing in an entire area, eliminating state aid, but to transform and, say, set limits on corporate operations for possible overruns. Unfortunately, this was not the case in Hungary, and the government has forgotten that a typical boiler exchange in a condominium was also implemented with LTP, thus saving the money, so the government has made the lives of a large number of condominiums difficult. We can therefore also see that there is a continuous supply shortage in the market. The only way to do this is by building a mass of apartments. This could typically be done well in a state-based construction, and this should mean at least 5-10 thousand apartments per year. [[10.30]] It is worth considering whether there is a framework or room for manoeuvre in the budget. During the creation of the joint opposition programme, we fought a lot until the last forint about where money should be allocated to these areas. If I had known that our situation would have been so simple, we would not have been convulsing so much, as we can see that the government of Hungary wants to make more than 1,600 billion of the expectations of VAT than in the previous year. So if we say that we only ask for 20 or 25 percent of this extra VAT revenue for the Hungarian future, then I think we did not ask for much. Then we say that this should be the starting point for a state-based home-building and rental-building program, help the Hungarian taxpayers of the future to thrive in the homeland, stay here and help them to be born in Hungary. We often disagree with Mr Rétvár State Secretary, but we agree on one thing: Hungary has a real hidden resource, and this is that the number of children in the whole of Europe is one of the highest among Hungarian mothers' declarations and measurements. It is between two and three, it is certain that these three are closer or closer to the two, to be the subject of demographic debates, the point is that this number is very high in European terms. What is tragic is that not everyone in the world is able to come, and we should reduce this gap, it would be a shared political responsibility. One way to reduce the gap, let us say, is to support the acquisition of own-owned property, but there is also the other way: to settle the situation of rentals, rentals, apartments, where further, if there is an Airbnb-like construction on the Hungarian market, which has been associated with the net avoidance of taxes many times, then the Government of Hungary should not necessarily use the tool of the anti-bullying club, but try to regulate it. Sit the parties at the table, as should have been done in the case of Uber, since the sharing economy, the new methods, cannot be avoided, they cannot be avoided and banned, and they should be regulated in the direction of public burdens. Overall, I see that if we do not start building rentals, I stress that it should not be within the framework of a social programme, it should have a social leg, but it is essentially a married couple working in a market, starting their lives, who will also find its calculation here, if we do not start doing this, then there is no way out of the housing crisis. Another very important issue, and I see no trace of it in the budget, but I would like to see half a million properties standing empty in Hungary. Obviously, a sane person doesn't want to touch private people. Otherwise, after some refining, the housing agency system would be able to make the private owner interested in using, as a rental, the otherwise vacant property, let's say, investment property, but it may only affect a few thousand or ten thousand apartments. At the same time, we see that there are plenty of properties empty in municipal and state ownership. We should finally look at the state of these things, because there are contradictory measurements on the market. If we can only use 10 to 20 percent as a rental, we have already reduced our supply constraints by a great deal. And we cannot forget that there are many other housing-related methods here, which can make life easier for young Hungarians and taxpayers: making housing cafeteria easier, increasing its amount or making it available at a higher level. I have already shared our ideas about VAT and others, which can benefit families, but I cannot help but wonder what is going on with the forms of family support that come with the right of the subject. As a right-wing man, I'm always a little cold when, with this type of relief, we always give something on subject rights, no matter how much the affected person does for his own wellbeing and for his progress. At the same time, I say that the family allowance, since it evaporated about half of its value, can be doubled, fits into the budget, but we raise conditions, and then maybe we meet our thinking. Let us raise the conditions for giving this in an arrangement called a family card, which will only allow you to buy child-rearing items, and the basic foods to be included, so baby food yes, beer, gambling-related items. It is very sharp to isolate in a globalised economy what I can and cannot buy with a device such as a SZÉP card. If we guarantee that these amounts will be used in the interests of the child, then I think we can double the amount of the family allowance. I can see that in many families this would be a huge help, it would be within the budgetary margin, but once again, as a right-wing person, I am closer to thinking that we should not do this unconditionally, even with family support services, health services and others, if necessary, the condition for cooperation in a certain wider context, in the case of other forms of support. Here, let us be content to make use of these amounts in the interests of the child. If we can guarantee that, I think we can increase this. Finally, I would like to share one more suggestion with you, which I raised about ten years ago: this is the concept of parental allowance. We are having very old debates about this, and we do not think that if someone can now replace their parents' pension with their own paid taxes, this arrangement would make a lot of people want to have more children now. Today's decisions are little influenced by what will be 30 or 35 years from now. But what we have to say is that it is a gesture, and the attention of a society, a political one, is that we can achieve solidarity between generations. Here, with a very simple instrument, this tax is paid by taxpayers, by families, which is already gone, but I would like 10 percent of this to be provided by the families concerned, and this paid 10 percent can enrich the parents' pension. How parents now share this with each other, if they are both alive, by what method to get there technically, is the subject of this debate, and we will be very constructive if this idea can be implemented, but we need to see that recognition of child rearing in the pension system is a long-standing obligation, an urgent task. Obviously, it is possible to argue about other ways of doing this, we are open to these debates, we are also very happy to participate in them, but the arrangement of parental allowance would be absolutely capable of becoming a symbol of solidarity between generations without major budget losses. So we can make our young, working, middle-aged or older compatriots and our children feel at the same time that this country is counting on them, the taxpayers of the future, if they so wish, we would like to see them here in Hungary. If we put all this together, then the Jobbik package will have a program of prosperity in the homeland. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-06-24-28	Mr Simon Miklós is our next speaker, from the Fidesz Group. Here you go. I give you the floor.
u2022-06-24-29	Thank you very much. Madam President, Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary's budget for 2023 is the budget for public health and defence. We are living at a time when such a sentence summarises the very essence of next year's budget. There are mixed feelings about this, as it is extremely regrettable that the crisis has been following a crisis in recent years. We have barely begun to recover from the difficulties caused by the coronal virus epidemic, and we have already had a serious military conflict in our neighbourhood that has brought energy crisis and war inflation with us, but at some level we are fortunate to say that we are not in a fully vulnerable situation. We are starting from strong economic foundations, which, despite the difficulties that have lasted for years, allow us to make sufficient sacrifices to preserve Hungary's peace and security in such external circumstances. It is clear from the draft budget before us that the government will also protect the country's security, the reduction of the costs, jobs, pensions, families and ensure the strengthening of the security of our country, the development of forces, which I would like to discuss in my speech in a little more detail. First of all, I would like to stress that we are on the side of peace. At the beginning of this year's election campaign, it became clear that the Left's position on war would bring us into conflict, a war that we had nothing to do with. [[10.40]] There are those who are interested in making this war as long as possible, and also in getting Hungary on the line of fire somehow. You can clearly see the attempts in this direction. Again, we are on the side of peace. We do not need to send weapons to Ukraine, we urge an immediate ceasefire and the opening of peace talks. We want peace as soon as possible. The government is working on this, making all the decisions associated with the war in light of this. However, this is not a brand-new position, Prime Minister, before the outbreak of the war, he worked for peace. But I would like to go back earlier: I would like to refer to the military development programme launched by the Minister of Defence, István Simicskó, two cycles ago. The parts of the budget proposal we are discussing are intended to strengthen the protection of our country with a view to preserving peace and safeguarding the security of the Hungarian people. This goal can be achieved through the development of forces, because it takes strength to maintain peace. We strengthen and improve the Hungarian forces because we believe that we are primarily responsible for our own security. We are part of the most powerful military alliance in the world, but not as some kind of henchman, but as a member with whom to strengthen the entire community. I think it is important to emphasise this because earlier we had left-wing governments that thought very differently on this issue. As a NATO member, they felt that it was enough to have weapons that we were involved in peace missions far from our country. Here and there we were in the alliance, and if you don't give us a god, there was trouble, then the big brothers would protect us. It was a complete error, a lack of knowledge of history or geopolitics. NATO protects Hungary on the basis of the principle of collective protection, but the alliance is strong, the defence is effective only if all NATO members are strong. We are not taking our place with help sent to distant conflicts, but by strengthening our own defense. Why would NATO recommend that our defence expenditures reach 2 percent of GDP? Probably not to weaken our army as the socialists did during the Prime Ministership of Ferenc Gyurcsány. I have just mentioned NATO's recommendation on defence expenditure. Ladies and gentlemen, Here is the budget proposal that promises a 2 percent level of protection expenditure on GDP by 2023 instead of the originally planned target date of 2024. There are years of work behind us in the field of military development, and there is still room for improvement. Achieving a 2-percent expenditure level is an important milestone in this process, which we would like to achieve next year, thereby increasing the budget's share of defence by about 41 percent. In Chapter 51 of the proposal before us, 840 billion HUF is separated by the term Defence Fund. This base shall ensure the continuation of the military development programme. I am talking about the Zrínyi defence and military development programme, which the government has been committed to since 2016. Thanks to the purchase and development of the program, our soldiers are already using new training suits, handguns manufactured in Hungary under Czech license, upgraded Mistral anti-aircraft systems, Leopard 2A4 trucks, Girán four-wheel-powered combat vehicles and sandmobiles, new grenades launchers, multi-tasking Airbus H145 M helicopters are already in the Hungarian airspace, as well as new transport aircraft. The modernisation of the Gripen fleet, the acquisition of Airbus H225 M medium transport helicopters, the acquisition of L-39 training aircraft, and the purchase of Embraer KC-390 ramp-tactical transport machines with the ability to recharge air. The NASAMS anti-aircraft missile system and the ELM-2084 radar are also under way. The new Leopard 2A7 + tanks, the PZH 2000 self-propelled guns and the Lynx infantry fighting vehicles are also under way to further develop our land capabilities, a significant part of which will be produced here in Hungary. Other plans of the programme include the renewal of domestic ammunition and explosives production, which has already partly passed the design phase. The further development of our mortar capabilities and cyber security, the creation of new barracks and the renovation of individual existing ones are also on the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary's defence capabilities have increased significantly in recent years, which also improves the security of the region. With all due respect, I would like to ask you to support budget 2023, which will further increase the security of the country. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-24-30	Before I give the floor to Mr Lóránt Keresztes, I would like to inform the Parliament that Máté Kocsis, the leader of the Fidesz Group, informed me that the Fidesz Group has renounced its five-minute timeframe in the debate for the benefit of the KDNP Group. I would ask the staff to modify the time frame as announced. Mr Lóránt László Keresztes, representative of the LMP, has the floor. Here you go.
u2022-06-24-31	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Before we talk about our proposals for amending the budget, I would like to respond to some of the speeches. I do not see Mr Aradski now; he has just spoken about how disciplined the representatives of Fidesz-KDNP are, because they do not speak a word about government restrictions, against Fidesz restrictions. But I would like to draw your attention to the Fidesz Mayor of Balassagyarmat's interview with Congressman Aradski just today, where you will certainly tell us how this brutal government austerity that you are enforcing will affect his city. [[10.50]] However, we can also refer here to András Cser-Palkovics, mayor of Székesfehérvár, who also made it quite clear and honest that his city might not be able to manage the austerity package that you are forcing on the cities of Hungary. By the way, regardless of party policy, I think that a city leader is doing the right thing by drawing attention to the fact that the austerity package, the austerity policy that you are applying, will not harm a mayor, but the people in that city, regardless of their party political views. I'd like to respond to one more thing. Here, Minister of State Rétvári rightly noted that I spoke a lot about the Budapest-Belgrád railway project, which we strongly opposed and oppose now. However, this is also a kind of value choice, in fact, about how, in what way, in what way, and how you started this project. We have seen that your Minister, Péter Szijjártó, proved that there is no need for this project from the point of view of Hungary. He said that a Hungarian port in the Trieste region will satisfy all the needs of the Hungarian economy. Yet you have launched this investment, and during the crisis, the related documents have been encrypted. You have sacrificed 175 000 jobs for this Budapest-Belgrád project, as this money could have created so many new Hungarian jobs. On the Hungarian side, this cannot be interpreted, in return it serves the great powers of China. Lőrinc Mészáros' companies have made 300 billion out of this investment, and because you launched this project, there is no money to develop railway lines that are very important for Hungarian rural areas. Congresswoman Czunyiné mentioned that before 2010, the Balliberal governments closed railway lines, and we criticized it at the time, it was an anti-rural, rural-destructive step. But the question, my honourable pro-government colleagues, is how much of the railway lines that were once closed have been reopened and how much money has been spent on the development of the Hungarian railway sidelines, the railway wing lines. We all see that almost nothing has been done since 2010, so you have done nothing to improve the railway sidelines, apart from criticising the mistakes of previous governments. I would add that during the coronal virus epidemic, you have, in the case of more than 20 railway tributaries, taken the frequency of flights to almost zero on the basis of the epidemiological agenda, which has also caused enormous damage to the railway infrastructure that is very important for the countryside. I would like to refer to one more point here from the speeches made. President Vejkey and Congresswoman Czunyi also spoke about the tasks of the judicial government. My question is that here, in the great heat, the Justice Committee considers it its task to face the activities of the executive mafia, to stop it and to stop the enormous damage they cause to Hungarian society. Now none of the pro-government representatives are present, but I would ask them whether they have an opinion that György Schadl, who has been in custody for more than six months, may continue to be president of the Hungarian Executive Faculty of the Court of Justice and who we know has taken hundreds of millions of HUF bribes from the executive mob, and he himself has corrupted your former Deputy Minister of Justice by more than HUF 80 million. The other day, I asked how this could happen, that this György Schadl is still president of the Executive Faculty, and how it can happen that he makes hundreds of millions of dollars from prison. I would have expected the answer from Secretary Judit Varga a few weeks ago, so I didn't get an answer, but now we can see from the news that Pál Völner of Fidesz, the lawyer of your former Deputy Minister of Justice, initiated the interrogation of the Minister. Perhaps, if this is done, we will learn more about this merger and how this is one of the most serious corruption cases in Hungary. (Dr. András Aradski takes over the notary seat.) Turning to the proposals for amending the budget, I criticized it for a long time yesterday, and I feel that, with sufficient foundation, the budget presented, and so on, the value choice that you considered important, and this brutal austerity budget, and I have drawn attention to the fact that this government is very important, that it is simply not fit for the public tasks that are important to the people, but it has apparently given up these tasks. It would be interesting to know, let us say, the opinion of Congressman Nacsa, what a value choice is when the government renounces the maintenance of the drinking water system, abandons the water utility sector, or just what kind of value choice is it when it does not provide resources for the implementation of the Community transport reform announced with great momentum, or what kind of value choice is it when the rural road network has been abandoned for a long decade now, and every year the problem is growing, and it does not provide sufficient resources in the budget to develop an important basic infrastructure for the countryside. A number of amendments were tabled yesterday, before the deadline, and one of them was the abolition of the utility tax. We know that the legacy of previous governments was difficult, and obviously, pre-2010 Balliberal governments did not pay enough attention to the need for the water utilities sector to receive adequate resources. But it is clear, and based on the figures, it has become much worse during your governance since 2010. So since 2010-2011, since the statistics have been in our hands, the number of failures in the water utility sector has doubled. Today, the proportion of water systems with an adequate rating is below 20 per cent, between 25 and 30 per cent the experts place network losses, so this is the proportion of drinking water produced, and the sector would need about HUF 3000 billion in the medium term for the maintenance and replacement work of pipelines. In comparison, Mr Secretary of State spoke yesterday in his reply to my speech about the fact that it would certainly be better to translate more into it. Dear Secretary of State, When, let's say, in such a fire-fighting way, 200 billion forints should be added to the maintenance and replacement work of the water utility sector compared to your plans, I think that, in addition to the 3 billion you have planned, it is relatively unfounded to say that it should be spent more. It should not be more, because the 200 billion, let us say so, in the lower voice and between the 3 billion, I feel that there is a very significant difference, but that sufficient funds should be spent to ensure that the most important infrastructure for the Hungarian people remains operational. By abolishing the utility tax, we would help the sector with a EUR 15 billion, but we also submitted a proposal that would at least provide appropriate support for the first time not only for public but also for regional water utility providers. We proposed an extra 10 billion for the protection of our natural waters, for the purchase of electric buses to the rural county legal cities, which are not supported by the government at all 10 billion surplus, we proposed an additional 5 billion for the municipalities to eliminate illegal landfills, we want to add 10 billion to the budget line for environmental and nature conservation tasks, and we propose HUF 50 billion for the green development of rural cities, for the purpose of sustainability. Of course, we have also presented budgetary amendments to my narrower country, Pécs and Baranya, and I would also like to talk very briefly about them only at the level of the list. In support of local public transport, I proposed HUF 3 billion for Pécs and Baranya. We know that a fidesz corruption case has put the city in a difficult position. This case is already in court, I filed a complaint many years ago, and we have now come to the point of hearing a former and a current Fidesz MP in this corruption case. But it is a clear responsibility of the government to support local community transport in Pécs by at least HUF 3 billion. In the previous budget, we proposed HUF 2 billion for the reconstruction of Karolina, one of Hungary's largest industrial landscapes, with a total of 450 million for the water utility reconstruction, 5.7 billion for the Pécs municipality due to the crisis, HUF 500 million for the abstract vehicle tax to compensate for Pécs 480, the town of Komló 50, the town of Kozármisleny 27 million for the development of the common public transport system in Pécs-Baranya, the recultivation work of the former uranium mine, and HUF 3 billion for the development of the lower road network of Baranya county. I very much hope that the Fidesz Members of Parliament in Pécs-Baranya will help the majority to support these amendments, because my narrower country desperately needs these resources. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-24-32	Our next speaker is Imre Ritter, a national representative. There you go. I'll give you the floor.
u2022-06-24-33	[[???Köszönöm. Sehr geehrte Frau Vorsitzende! Sehr geehrtes Parlament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten meine vorgestrige und gestrige, 20-minütigen Reden bezüglich des Gesetzentwurfs Nr. T/152 über den ungarischen Haushalt 2023 im Zusammenhang mit dem Nationalitätenbedarf zu Ende führe.???]] [[11.00]] Madam President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Allow me to finish today, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, my comments on the nationality needs of the draft central budget law of 2023, the 20-20 minutes before yesterday and yesterday. Yesterday, in the second half of my speech, I dealt with the systemic problem in the relations between the local and regional authorities, as well as with the local ethnic and regional minority self-governments. In particular, the law on the rights of nationalities renders the financial, accounting, taxation, internal control and other tasks of the hNEs the responsibility of the municipal and county authorities, but does not provide a norm for them in the case of self-employed municipalities, while, in the case of the common offices, it is now outdated with a minimum multiplier and provides only staff support, which has not been modified for at least a decade. I would also like to emphasise now and again that this systemic problem of legislation and financing technology, which is now 30 years old, would exist even if the total revenue of municipal and county authorities were three times today, or on the contrary, one third of today. Therefore, I respectfully ask that no one tries to use this for political purposes. I concluded yesterday's comment on what would be the real direct and directly accepted headcount correction for municipal and county authorities, and how much the specific cost of this would be in different categories, with a total amount of support needs at the annual level. I will talk about this today, and I asked everyone to devote the intermediate day to rethinking the initial situation and resolving this problem and to possible solutions. Today, I can close the question short, because, of course, we have a complete record of 2165 local minority self-governments, we have a complete record of the 711 joint municipal offices and 529 self-government offices. However, we do not have a database, a query from any ministry to determine how many of the joint municipal offices currently belong to the different categories, and how many hnös, b) we do not have any information on how many and how many hnös are connected to the 529 self-government office. This is not surprising, because in all the areas of nationality that we are dealing with for the first time in detail, we are generally confronted with the fact that there are no targeted nationality queries in the systems. We have carried out specific surveys in separate and joint offices, in different types of work, on the amount of work needed. We have specific data on the number of eligible numbers or direct specific financial amounts required. If we can receive the missing aggregated national data from any ministry by next Thursday, we will present our specific numerical amendment proposal next Friday. If we cannot obtain such national data, we will keep this issue on the agenda again in the autumn, we will push for the necessary queries with the relevant wallets, and we will present a legislative proposal to the Central Budget Act of 2023, which will be adopted this July, with the necessary data. One thing is certain: until this anomaly can be resolved and resolved, we will keep it on the agenda, because I think that after nearly 30 years, it is time that this fundamental problem, which has been in place since the beginning, continuously poisons the relationship between local and local minority self-governments, should be resolved at least partially. But I hope that there will be an opportunity for an amendment by next Friday. At the same time, there are a number of issues where we already perceive that we are having serious difficulties, and there will be. I would like to say these already, by surely finding a solution during the autumn session. These are the main areas; firstly, the cost of eating ethnic public education institutions. We have already had difficulties with the lack of resources for the children's meals and free meals of public education institutions maintained by the HNEs. Among other things, we insisted on establishing an additional operating support framework for public education institutions with a budget of HUF 350 million, maintained by the HNös, for the purpose of managing this standard deficit. At the same time, it is likely that in today's war and inflation, this additional support will not be enough to address the problems. I am aware that the government is working intensively on this and is planning comprehensive measures for the national management of this area, so we do not want to make any amendments to this area now, but we need to return to this in the autumn. Secondly, despite the measures taken to keep energy prices in check, it can be said that in the vast majority of public education institutions with a nationality self-preservation, in addition to today's support system, the current norms will not be able to achieve the year 2023. As in catering, we believe that there is no point here, but it is estimated that there are already additional demands to be put forward. We'll wait for the year 2022 to happen. However, in relation to these issues, I would also like to point out once again and draw everyone's attention to the fact that, in the case of public education and cultural institutions maintained by national authorities, local self-governments do not have their own income, only a flexible complement to and correction of state aid can cover the treatment of unexpected problems. This has not been the case in the past, because the national authorities were not institutional supporters. But these are the tasks taken over from the state, so it is the duty of the state to provide the source of these. We therefore need to find a solution together, solutions that can be used to manage this effectively and flexibly. Obviously, under normal, predictable operating conditions, this would not be a specific problem, but in addition to the pandemic, the war, the energy crisis and everything else, we must resolve this. To do this, I ask everyone to help us now and in the future, to think together, because we have more than 15,000 children in our hands. In the remainder of my comment, I would like to say a few thoughts on the situation in the education of national teachers, as I have already indicated in my comment on Wednesday. I spoke in detail on Wednesday about the fact that we were able to achieve significant results for us, on the one hand, by raising and differentiation the national minority allowance fourfold, in order to keep up with national teachers, and, secondly, by developing and introducing a national education student scholarship system, which has led us to contract with nearly 500 national teachers. At the same time, I have already indicated on Wednesday that, in terms of our efforts to improve the quality of national education, and especially their results, we are still at the beginning of work due to the pandemic situation, i.e. two years lost. Significant progress has already been made over the past year in improving and ensuring the legal background, provided that, on the one hand, the 2011 CCIV on national higher education was identified in the context of the maintenance changes made by higher education institutions last spring. Law 73. Since 2013, §2 of the Act requires the competent minister to consult and obtain the opinion of the National Council of Nationality in decisions taken in higher education regarding ethnic education. The only problem was that the competent minister didn't know about this either, so the opinion purchases didn't happen either. [[11.10]] In any event, during the change of model, T/15728/2/2 was submitted on 12 April 2021. My amendment, which was accepted by the Parliament. In addition to this minister, the obligation to give an opinion, the request for minority opinions, has been extended to all maintainers. Therefore, I would like to draw the attention of both the new Minister for Higher Education, János Csák, at the Commission's hearing before his appointment, to these consultations, so that both the minister and the maintenance public foundations as well as the maintenance churches have to obtain the opinion of the National Nationality Council in advance for their decisions on ethnic education in higher education. Such decisions are, of course, also the decisions on the budget for the education of national minorities. Let me bring you up to speed. At the University of Pécs, the support of the German Foundation Department was always targeted in the budget of the PTE. Three years ago, saying that in order to make the budget easier to see, which would in principle be acceptable, this named line was omitted and the budget of the PTE was significantly increased in parallel. Despite this, the PTE considered that the Ministry was no longer in favour of the German Foundation Department and wanted to terminate it. It took several years to save the department, but unfortunately, we couldn't keep the head of the department in the process. I would like to stress that we talked about only HUF 15 million in the case of a large university with an ICS billion budget. The parallel is spookily similar to the situation of former municipal authorities versus national authorities. Although the university's budget is raised by 50 to 100 percent or even 150 percent, if there is no targeted framework for ethnic education, then the nationality department will be terminated or the ethnic education will be reduced. That is why we ask here, as in the municipal system, that the support provided to carry out the tasks of nationality should always be targeted, clearly, clearly, separately, not in the big hat. Another major amendment to the law is the government 63/2021. [[CHAPTER XII 29.]] In German nationality educator training, it required that at least 50% of the training be carried out in German instead of only 15-20 percent so far, and from 1 September 2022 German education for children and children of nationality can be launched. In order to ensure the necessary physical and personal conditions for this in the short term, we are now providing a target of HUF 50 million of the residual amount of the national minority funding to the defining six training sites. From September, we will sit down together with the Ministry of Culture with all universities and colleges involved in ethnic education, and we will try to clarify clearly the extent and amount of funding for national education courses from the significantly increased grants. After all, increasing the quality of training, in particular the substantive improvement in the language competence of nationality, requires a series of significant changes. This requires objective language measurement and those who do not have an adequate level of education in the language of nationality must complete a zero-state-funded course focusing on language training. The percentage of education in nationality languages should be higher than or equal to 50 per cent. Objective output measurement should understand language exams so that all graduates of ethnic educators speak their ethnic language at upper levels. Of course, every such step has a significant, smaller or greater budgetary impact, so it is important to clear these with training places and to include in their budgets the support of ethnic education in a targeted, clear and verifiable manner. I hope that, together with the National Council of Nationality and the Ministry of Culture, these meetings with training places will be successful in the autumn and can be resolved from the current and future budgetary framework of universities, so we are not making any budgetary amendments to this. In summary and in closing: the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary supports the bill, taking into account our proposals for amendment, and recommends that this House take part in the T/152. adoption of the draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2023. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit! [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-24-34	We now have two-minute speeches. First, I give the floor to Congressman Péter Ovádi, the representative of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2022-06-24-35	Madam President, Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday, I did my job in my constituency, but I heard that in the budget debate, Rebecca Szabó spoke and examined what had happened in the field of animal protection over the past year and a half. He said it was nothing. In fact, he may have talked about his own work, since he was the animal protection ombudsman of the capital city. As far as I know, nothing happened in the capital in the field of animal protection, but if you begin to mention them in your next speech, I would be very happy to hear them. But in the past year and a half, the government has done its job, and let me just say what we have managed to achieve in the past year and a half: the National Veterinary Council, the Animal Protection Centre was established at the University of Veterinary Medicine, 262,000 people have said their opinion in the online animal protection consultation, the legislation on the fur use of meat-eating fur animals has been tightened, 67 NGOs have received extraordinary support in 2021, more than 600 municipalities have received support from the HUF 500 million of the Hungarian village programme, and this application was enough for the breeding of 14 thousand dogs or cats. The legislation on animal protection was adopted unanimously by Parliament, which is one of the strictest animal protection laws in Europe. In December 2021 more than 200 non-governmental animal welfare organisations received aid, and 500 kg/civil organisations received food donations. We have a government decision that aims to increase the effectiveness of state action in relation to animal protection, so it must be prepared by 30 September. We have a government resolution of one and a half billion, and perhaps the most important thing is that there is still a HUF 500 million budget for civil society organisations, and allatvedelem.hoi.hu can be submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-24-36	State Secretary Péter Benő Banai has indicated his intention to make a statement, so I will give the floor to the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2022-06-24-37	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Dear Parliament, Allow me, after the first round of speeches, to respond briefly to some of the points I intend to make. The first sentence, which specifically struck my ears, was the sentence of Mrs Gurmai Zita, who said that those who reviewed this draft budget law or the foundation bill would certainly not vote for the government who submitted it. And he told me that poverty was growing, that the masses of people were breaking down, that the government kept a significant number of employees in a state of insecurity, and that everyone was in this circle. On the other hand, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári has already said numbers, but as far as the downfall is concerned, let us say that not only the number of people employed is now about one million higher than in 2010, but wages have also increased significantly. So more people work and make more money. [[11.20]] We all know what situation the government had to put economic processes in order after 2010, we know what significant debt reduction had to be done, and the first round of measures not only resulted in fiscal consolidation, but, for example, economic policy focusing on employment has also resulted in economic growth. 2013 is the year of the turn of growth, after 2013 net wages increased by an average of 8.21%, and again, this is the average annual net wage increase; in the same nine years average inflation was 2.1 percent. So what we can tell you is that over the last nine years, based on the figures, net average real earnings have increased at around 6 percent. Now, within these average wage earnings, the income of low-income earners has increased significantly in recent years. A tripartite agreement was reached on the increase in the minimum wage in 2016, before which the minimum wage increased, and at a higher pace after the 16-year agreement. Allow me to say that the net real earnings of all persons who worked at minimum wage and do not have children have increased by 84 percent compared to 2010. If they were to have children, their net real earnings growth was even greater, an increase of 158.4 percent in the three - child population, i.e. two and a half times the real value of their income. I therefore commend this to everyone who considers the matter of catching up important and considers it important that having children should not be the same as being poor. Here, I note factually that those employed at the minimum wage who also had children had to experience the loss of their real income before 2010. The second thought, which was recurring among opposition contributions and which was also expressed by Mr Lóránt Keresztes, is brutal austerity. So, on the one hand, it is peculiar that the Member mentions a brutal austerity, when we know what fiscal adjustments were after 90, what kind of instruments were followed by the government, and we know, then, what kind of political parties the alliance that tested itself as a left-wing alliance in 2022 was, and what kind of measures these parties had taken in the government earlier. But again, factually, if we were talking about brutal austerity, I do not know how it would describe the process that would have taken place, for example, in the event of the abolition of the reduction of the rent. I don't really want to be political, but I'll tell you factually that the candidate for Prime Minister of the common opposition criticized the reduction of the rent. How would we describe the expected processes if the reduction was abolished? On the other hand, next year's budget will focus on keeping the population's low overhead costs. In terms of overhead, the local authorities will indeed have to pay a higher price for electricity and gas, this is the one point that MEP László Keresztes has adopted as a brutal austerity. However, let me say here that, in addition to attacking the proposal of the candidate for Prime Minister supported by the Member, municipalities will not only have to face additional costs in terms of electricity and gas, but will also be able to account for additional revenues. Why do I say that? On the one hand, the proposal for a budget law before you contains an amount of HUF 95 billion greater than the number 2022 in support of local governments. As a second item, I have to say that small and medium-sized enterprises will tax with a normal key, which will also mean additional revenue for municipalities in 2023, and we hope that economic growth will bring additional revenues to municipalities, and this will also provide additional revenue to municipalities, taking into account the obligation to pay solidarity contributions. On the basis of the local government's own accounts, the sum of the funds in the sovereign debt and commercial bank is by far over HUF 1200 billion based on the latest report in the first quarter of 2022. I therefore think that, yes, the municipalities must also bear a burden from the economic policy that focuses essentially on economic growth and the preservation of so far's values, but the municipalities are in a stable financial position and, I repeat, they can calculate additional revenues against additional expenditure. And the municipal data of the past period, in my opinion, indicate that the economic policy that focuses on high employment and growth is favourable to the municipalities. Between 2014 and 2019, the main revenue local business tax increased by 50 percent annually. Mr László Keresztes stressed the importance of public transport, mentioning the railway as an important transport sector. Let me tell you that next year's draft budget law before you will give you 219 billion forints more resources in the field of rail transport and services. As regards the comments made by Mr Ferenc Dávid on economic matters, I fully agree with the Member's first sentence, the Member said that improving the productivity of SMEs is an important element of economic growth. I fully agree with this Member. I do not agree that the government will not take measures in this respect, and that next year's budget will not include additional opportunities, I am thinking of the Széchenyi Card Programme, which, I think, is a particularly successful initiative, and for small and medium-sized enterprises it means not only that they have access to credit, but that they have access to cheap credit. These schemes can be achieved at very favourable interest rates for investments, in addition to the numerous proposals available from EU and other domestic sources to improve the efficiency of small and medium-sized enterprises. If the Member sees that many small and medium-sized enterprises only travel to these aids and has a specific proposal on how to narrow down and take action against abuses, then concrete proposals, I think we will all be thanking him. As far as the global minimum tax is concerned, I recall that when the government reduced the corporate tax rate to 9 per cent, it was strongly encouraged by employers' organisations, and if the Member disagrees with this, perhaps he agrees that if the global minimum tax was to be introduced, for example, the key to the output could be put on the agenda, so the key to the output, which is an important element for medium-sized enterprises, could be called into question. With regard to the tax called kata, we always say that, yes, it is a tax which, in addition to a very simple administration, preferred the assistance of the smallest enterprises, and this was an extremely successful measure. But in addition to success, there were companies, there were organisations that not only lived but abused the opportunity given by kata, many businesses forced their normal employees into a business form [[Dr. Ferenc David nods.]] I am pleased that this is recognised by the Member, and this was, in effect, a means of excluding profits. I therefore believe that abuses must be eliminated, tricks must be excluded, and that a responsible government should not only monitor the 450 thousand people, but also the more than 4 million other workers who pay taxes into the budget and who have a greater burden on their shoulders if people escape normal taxation. Our aim is therefore to ensure that small businesses that operate fairly continue to have a favourable tax option, but to eliminate loopholes and tricks in the future. In this respect, we also thank businesses and business organisations for their proposal. Finally, the minimum wage. On the left, many people say that catching up is an important issue, I fully agree with it, the measures that have been taken so far, I think this has been helped, and the minimum wage increase can help catch up. The Member said that raising the minimum wage is a burden for businesses, but I would like to recall the 2016 agreement, where both employees and employers' organisations have said that this is a step towards improving productivity and efficiency. [[11.30]] If this step has been successful in recent years because productivity has increased in Hungary, then I think that it can continue to be successful in the future. Business productivity can be improved by raising the minimum wage and, in addition, by raising workers' income. Of course, the balance between the survival of businesses and the growth of income must be found as a golden medium. As regards family policy, we said that, compared to catching up, the maximum amount of family tax relief is now available for three children in the case of gross income of less than HUF 310 thousand. So this measure alone helps the widest possible layers to benefit from family tax relief, but in addition, if we combine all family support, then, I repeat, next year's draft budget law contains some HUF 450 billion more resources than 2022. In that, I fully agree with Vice-President Dóra Dúró that perhaps the most important issue is the question of the survival of Hungarians. The issue of national strategy and economic policy is whether the nation runs out or not. Therefore, it is worth looking at how the amounts of family support have evolved, and I think it is worth focusing on the fact that, yes, one element in the family policy support system may not change from one year to the next, there may be elements where a correction with inflation can be considered, but there are elements where all the aid increases above inflation. Therefore, if we look at all of the family policy measures, I think that the increase in fertility highlighted by the Vice-President and by Mr Dániel Z. Karpát can continue in the future. Here, it is worth observing the long-term trends, and here there was a trend turn, because before 2010, exactly until 2011, fertility was reduced and then increased. This was a trend turn, and I hope that this will remain in the longer term by the fact that having children is, of course, an individual decision, the government is trying to ensure the conditions for childbearing not to be the same as poverty. For example, the programme as a whole includes the continuation of nursery development. And I would also like to point out to the Vice-President how many cradle seats there were five to ten years ago, how many there are now, and I think that the programme can be regarded as a success with the growing cradle number, and we will continue. There are also funds available for this in next year's budget law. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-24-38	We are now continuing the debate with the speakers who have been announced. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt V. Németh of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2022-06-24-39	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The most common words in the budgetary debate must have been growing, falling, growing, narrowing, but in addition to these discussions, peace and security were the two words that may have been spoken more often than these. Peace and security, let us say both words with great naturalness, but let us admit that these two words are like air or water, that we appreciate it when we feel its absence. Think back to the pandemic, how much different importance health had, or as usual in Transylvania, for the health! A greeting to a young man, or under Covid, for this word, when in our environment we saw people getting sick and even dying. The weight of peace and security has increased in recent years. I think there are a lot of us who start the day by listening to war coverage on the news, on the radio, among the first to be heard, clicking on the online platforms for the first time on war news, because they know very well that our fate, our future, our near future, depends on it. It depends on how this war conflict closes and when it closes. [[Péter Benő Banai is leaving the meeting room.]] I believe that the budget should also be treated as traditional values and values in a traditional family. There, too, if we put our plans on buying cars, renovating the apartment, on vacation, it will change in one stroke when we get into a crisis, such as illness, and in this situation, we look very strangely at the family member who reminds us that life should go on as before, as if nothing had happened. So I think that it must be emphasised in particular how important it is that this budget wants to ensure peace and security, because it is also necessary to have a good time in our skin. There's more. For example, honor. Appreciation, even within the family, is an honor in the workplace. But I'd like to add self-esteem to that. Self-esteem in different dimensions, at national level, at municipal level or even at individual level. At national level, being Hungarian can suddenly change, for example, after an English-Hungarian, after its success. It is obvious that it is good to be Hungarian at the same time. Or when we see the effect of the invention of a Hungarian person, such as Katalin Karikó's invention, on the whole world. Therefore, in the context of the budget, I also feel it is important that the not-so-large items which aim to strengthen our identity remain in the budget and that we can conclude that there will continue to be funding for this, because it is at least as important to have a good time as the existence of one or two investments or the provision of operating costs. Let me highlight some elements from this circle, and let me mention the aid scheme under the law on Hungaricums, which was created 12 years ago. Then we set up a value pyramid at the top of which there are the Hungaricums, the outstanding national values below it, and then the county values, the values of the cross-border national parts, sectoral values, regional values, and I deliberately do not say, finally, that the urban values at the bottom, but I say that they are on the pedestal. After all, these are the local values, which are also elements of identity, which not only ensure that I quote from a recent article that gives us a debate, that we have to justify that being Hungarian is the best thing in the world, and I believe in this, but that is also how we can prove that it is often said, because it is good to be the best thing in the world to be iron-var, sporks, mountain-backs, and the rest. The first task of this law was to ensure the cross-border unification, as it is easy to see that the peculiarities and character elements of the Hungarians, if you will, cannot be divided into Transylvania, Muravidék, Felvidék or the South Country, but these together draw the values and character of the Hungarians, and I could even say that the Hungarian people's souls. The second time, however, this law, its possibilities, especially during the pandemic period, pointed to our Hungarian options, not only our food, drinks, but also the Hungarian tourist destinations. How important it became during this period when we could not go abroad to explore the Guard or other parts of the country. And how timely it is today to forget identity, identity policy, let me quote Imre Kovács, an excellent sociologist, researcher of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, who wrote that the resewing of identity is taking place in Hungary. Be aware that one of the great successes of the governing parties is in this regard. [[11.40]] What we see all over the world is that with respect to tradition, peoples and nations choose a vision of the future for themselves, not only a vision of the future, but also a form of attitude or a way of life related to it, because we can effectively counter this effect with programs that appear in the Sándor Csoóri program, which have an artistic aspect, but also another element related to the lifestyle that strengthens our character, and the craftsmanship that supports us through this program. Or it may also be the site of the renovation of the landscape houses, the folk-building program, but it is also the element of identity enhancement that is important here. Self-care appears in the closed garden program, which requires resources even across the next year, but this, in addition to the fact that the program is a landscaper, is aimed at maintaining and strengthening the unique Hungarian lifestyle, but I could mention the folk college program, of which 60-70 percent are all related to the lifestyle. In the last ten years, HUF 6.7 billion has been spent on 2627 beneficiaries under the Hungaricum programme, whether it was the presentation of the Hungaricums, or the program "Traditions in Fashion" in order to mention another, and we are pleased that the amount of HUF 1.3 to 1.4 billion in the next year's budget will be available in the last three years. It will be ensured that we can feel that it is good to be Hungarian and feel that it is good to live with our peculiarities, characters, even in the smallest settlement in the country. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-06-24-40	Our next speaker is Congressman László Kordás of the Democratic Coalition. I give you the floor, please.
u2022-06-24-41	Thank you. Madam President, Dear fellow Members, It's not unusual for me to use the employee's glasses to interpret the budget that you have submitted and put down, and I see that the budget of 2023 is austerity and the budget for the Orbán package, which takes more money out of families' pockets than ever before, and leaves as much money in the pockets of the oligarchs as possible. Next year's budget proves what the Democratic Coalition knew and predicted before the April elections: if Fidesz wins power, Viktor Orbán becomes Prime Minister of Hungary again, then there will be brutal austerity. Even though Fidesz denied it, we predicted it. But let's not be unfair. Your budget is not only a budget for austerity, but also a budget for families. The problem is that the budget of the Orbán, Mészáros, Tiborcz, Garancsi and NER Olympics is not the budget of Hungarian families struggling for their livelihood. I believe that in this environment, when there is such an economic situation, it is very important that these businesses also pay into the Rehabilitation Fund or the Defence Fund. However, what we see in this budget is that these businesses are not really burdened, and they are actually beneficiaries of this budget. Unfortunately, your budget for 2023 appreciates the work of the Hungarian people as much as the Fidesz government has estimated the work of the Hungarian worker over the past 12 years, i.e. nothing. Sadly, therefore, it is clear that they did not even think about educators' wage increases, the decent wage increases of nurses, elderly caregivers, tens of thousands of people working in the human sphere. The budget for austerity is therefore not the budget of Hungarian workers, but the budget of the government that drains Hungarian workers. The budget which does not allocate resources to raise salaries for civil servants at the minimum wage can only be called insufficient, even though we have known since last week that there will be regulation of the European minimum wage. It will be an EU obligation to increase people's standard of living in addition to the success of the political community of the Democratic Coalition and the DK MEP, Klára Dobrev, and to impose obligations on the government. For you, the era of knowingly keeping the wages of Hungarian workers low was over, so that they could be served to large companies. It is precisely your carelessness that shows the need for minimum wage regulation in Europe. And for you, whether you like it or not, it is time to provide resources to raise wages for the lowest earners. You know, it is unbelievable that, on the basis of next year's budget, the government still believes that the gender pay gap in Hungary is one of the highest in the European Union. According to Eurostat, the average gross hourly rate for women is 18.2 percent higher than for men. [[Sic!]] You know, it is quite incredible how it can happen in the heart of Europe, that a government is constantly spending more on operating public bureaucracy, such as education. In 2022 this is the case again in Orbán Hungary! Public funds spent on education represent 3.4 percent of GDP in next year's budget. This is far from the EU average, even though it is slowly not going to be a teacher in classrooms. The teachers' unions calculate that 12,000 full-time teachers are missing from the classrooms. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, You are the weakest points in Hungarian history. [[Intercoms from the benches of the governing parties, including, "Woe! Wow! Applause in the same place.]] You are responsible for the weakest forint in Hungarian history. Remember how many times you and György Matolcsy said that the MNB does not have a price target, and here we feel the effect on our skin. If the Hungarian central bank does not have an exchange rate target, it means that it does not protect the value of the forint. And if the Hungarian central bank does not protect the value of the forint, it will be devalued. It is that simple; we see it now in practice. This weak forint has three winners. First: multinational companies that pay wages in Hungarian forints, but sell their products and services for euros. The second winner is the National Bank itself, as he spends the money earned at the weak forint rate on himself. This has become a luxury carpet, real estate, luxury car, and everything else we can read in the newspapers. And thirdly, of course, its winners are the Fidesz companies that receive EU applications, because from the resources they receive, they get more every day without putting any performance on the table. And before they begin to refer to war, external reasons and other matters, that inflation is not the result of Hungarian economic policy, but the result of some external cause, we know well that the Polish złoty, the Czech krona or the Croatian kuna were not so weakened during the same period, only the Hungarian forint is on the death list. Only the Hungarian forint could weaken so much in the region. I would also like to remind you that the prices of certain foods have experienced 20-30 or even 40 percent inflation in recent years. If something is really dangerous for families, then that's it, your weak forint and rising inflation. If families were a little bit important to you, you would stop the food price increase, accept DK's proposals, and reduce the VAT on basic foods to zero by the end of the year, and then not raise it to more than 5%. If families were even a little bit important to you, they would provide a minimum of HUF 100,000 in support for families raising children to try to compensate for the brutal increase in food prices that they have had to suffer in the past period. To sum up, the budget of 2023 is austerity and the budget of the Orbán package, which takes more money out of the pockets of Hungarian families than ever before and leaves more than the fidesz oligarchs. [[11.50]] With this budget, the government does not protect the weakest, abandons pensioners and does not solve the problems of education and health. With this budget, you do not serve the Hungarian people, but serve them. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2022-06-24-42	Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2022-06-24-43	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Perhaps if you were a little less blinded, there would also be some credibility in your speech, honourable Member. Please do not mention that there were no wage increases in Hungary, when we started this year with a 10 per cent wage increase in kindergarten teachers, a 10 per cent wage increase in teachers, a 20 per cent wage increase in daycare workers, a 38,5 per cent wage increase in doctors, a 21 per cent wage increase in nurses, a 10 per cent wage increase in cultural workers, a similar increase in wages in law enforcement workers, a six-month wage increase in law enforcement workers, a full payment in the 13th month pension for pensioners, and I could continue this line with university teachers and others, honourable Member. The next year will also be wage increases in health and education, as the government has already decided on a continuing wage increase for doctors and a wage increase for teachers. Even in the following year, the government decided to raise ten to ten percent. [[Andrea Hegedüs: That's not 50 percent!]] After that, don't you claim in Parliament that there will be no wage increases. As regards the minimum wage, honourable Member, when you were on the government, you know very well that the minimum wage was raised by HUF 23 500, and this government was raised by HUF 126 500; 23 500 versus 126 500. When they had the chance to raise their wages, they didn't. When they are in opposition, they speak out loud about it when they are on the government, and then they sneak around, lay low, don't raise minimum wage, don't raise the wages of people with the smallest money to serve the multinational companies. You've done your part in this. As regards the difference between the wages of men and women, honourable Member, in recent years, thank God, these scissors have managed to close a little. Women's employment is at record height, rising from 59 percent to 75.5 percent. You are attacking the employment of women in Hungary when it rises from 59 percent to 75.5 percent, honourable Member. [[László Kordás: I wasn't talking about employment, I was talking about wages!]] I think we've made progress in this, too. Which means the value of forints and salaries, honourable Member, if you really wanted to do something to make people's money worth more, then perhaps the left could have supported the reduction, which you haven't done in ten years, but you're always attacking. Ferenc Gyurcsány also attacked the reduction of the rent with the most decorated ciradas. You just said there's gotta be a deal, or the world won't collapse in ten years. You didn't support the gas stop, you didn't support the food stop, and you didn't support the interest rate stop. But let me ask you a few riddles, since you've raised the question of VAT. Who closed the zero-percent VAT rate in 2003-2004? The left-wing government. Who raised the reduced rate from 12 percent to 15 percent at the same time? The left-wing government. Who raised the tax on electricity from 12 percent to 25 percent at the same time? The left-wing government, your government. Who closed the 15 percent reduced VAT rate in 2006? Left-wing government, 15 percent to 20 percent. And who in 2009 raised the general sales tax from 20 percent to 25 percent after the election? The left-wing government. Honourable Congressman, You should not talk about VAT reductions if you have never practiced what it is, but the VAT increase has been practiced regularly. I've listed this for you here. What you demand, what you have eliminated, you have raised the VAT constantly, from two years to two years. [[Sic!]] under their own government, making it difficult for people to make a living. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-24-44	Mr Attila Barcza from the Fidesz Group will be speaking. There you go. I'll give you the floor.
u2022-06-24-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will address the budgetary debate in relation to the development of tourism in Hungary and its aspects concerning the tourism part of the budget. The 2023 tourism budget is adapted to the changed objectives of the sector. After the investments, it is now the era of operation. With the completion of the development projects started, the focus will be shifted to targeted, data-driven marketing and marketing activities in order to fill the renewed Hungary with guests. Only the tools have changed, and the goal remains unchanged, namely that by 2030 Hungary should be the most popular tourist destination in Central Europe, which accepts 20 million guests every year and accounts for 50 million guest nights. It is important to look back a little bit to see behind this year's planned budget figures, how tourism has evolved, in the last few years there have been very big changes. We can say that we are talking about one of the leading sectors of our economy. In 2019, more than 13 percent of GDP was given and 400 thousand people were employed, 13 million ven-düss and 42 million guest nights were booked. This was the absolute record of Hungary's history. However, the pandemic hit the sector very hard and in 2020 only 8 million guests arrived for 22.7 million guest nights. The government responded immediately with the Hungarian Tourism Agency and we were able to help the sector. The aim has always been to keep jobs and to keep professionals on track, but thanks to the tourism sector in Hungary for being very well placed during the Covid epidemic. In 2020, the government spent an unprecedented HUF 800 billion on tourism aid. I highlighted the tourist development program Kisfaludy, which has completed 17,000 developments out of more than 300 billion forints, 40 new hotels, 114 beaches, 14 thousand private accommodation rooms and nearly 600 pensions. It is important to see what happened last year so that we can get closer to this year's budget in tourism. In Hungary, the recovery of the Covid epidemic was a little faster than at global level. Tourist arrivals have increased by 4 percent worldwide, according to UNWTO data, this could rise by 46 percent, so the Hungarian recovery is ten times higher than in the world. Domestic tourism closed the most successful summer of all time in 2021. Of course, one of the main reasons for this was that the Hungarians were able to take foreign trips under difficult conditions and the role of the SZÉP card was unquestionable. In particular, we must now take into account the challenges of the Russian-Ukrainian war in the first quarter of 2022, following the outbreak of the Crown Virus. Tourism is the peace industry, and any armed conflict, health conflict, we know that tourism is affected very quickly and vulnerablely. It is also important to say that more efficient use than marketing sources can already be demonstrated in the budget that the National Tourism Data Service Centre in Hungary receives the daily statistical data from more than 45 thousand hotels, and the connection of catering and tourist attractions to this data centre has also begun. I think that we can expect the Tourism Agency to develop a system that can be undertaken for the sector, and soon the largest real-time big data file will help data-driven decisions in Hungary, and we can plan the budget so that we can make tourism decisions, not based on intuitions, but based on data. The 2023 budget provides operational resources for the active government commissioner for Hungary, and even though it is smaller than last year, it also provides development resources. I think that Márius Révész and his excellent team of employees have done a great deal of work in recent years, so let's just think about the achievements that can be felt in every corner of Hungary, travelling camps, tourist houses, biking and roller parks, running parks, climbing rooms, active centers, plastic and regular ice rinks, 150 water-touring stops, 20 holiday boats, a thousand-mile bicycle route planning, and I mention only two events involving the organisation of Tour de Hongrie or Giro d' Italia. So I think that the government confidence responsible for active Hungary has been able to bring a visible, tangible dynamic into the development of tourism in Hungary. It is important that the conditions for operation and development continue to be ensured by the Hungarian budget in this difficult situation. The management, deputy directors and staff of the Hungarian Tourism Agency, I think they are excellent professionals whose performance can be confirmed by data. The direction is very right that the Hungarian Tourism Agency, as the top institution of domestic tourism development, develops tourism in one hand. This was absolutely necessary, and the development of tourism in recent decades has shown this. In addition, we have now been able to fully switch to destination-based tourism development in Hungary, acceptable to everyone, instead of point-like developments. [[12.00]] And the budget figures, the development lines, are also adapted to the fact that not the point-like tourism developments, but the networking, cooperation and destination-based development parts are supported. Finally, I think it is important to say that I consider the work of the workshop in the Hungarian tourism university research network, the centres of higher education, is of particular importance and it is good to see it, and the cooperation of the Hungarian tourism university research network and the Hungarian Tourism Agency should be further strengthened, and it would be important in time to ensure that NTAK data is accessible to researchers. The transformation of higher education and our university world, the results of foundation universities and the increased higher education budget are already seen in this. Finally, I would like to say that both the "Modern Cities" programme and the "Hungarian Village" programme, which, I think, can be called the success programme for the development of settlements in recent years, contain a lot of tourism-related developments. While we can also name the tourism aspects of the sidewalk development, playground development, urban art development, and the program "Modern Cities" in Hungary, the leaders of the county-righted cities have decided in many places to implement tourism-like developments. So we can say that Hungary's budget also provides a very significant amount of tourism-enhanced funds through the programme. Modern Cities. Overall, what I see is that the planned figures of the 2023 budget ensure the impact of Covid in the changed tourist situation, taking into account the negative effects of the war, taking into account the difficult economic situation of further development of tourism in Hungary, so that all areas of development and all areas of Hungary can develop as wonderfully as Sopron and its region, if that is all I can say in the end. Thank you all very much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-06-24-46	Now it's time for Congressman Endre Tóth, representative of Momentum. Here you go.
u2022-06-24-47	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Dear Parliament, My fellow members of the Government. Let us be honest with each other, you will continue to punish Budapest with this budget and continue to punish the municipalities. I can almost see the scene that took place in the autumn of 2019, when Viktor Orbán and István Tarlós looked up on the Gellért Hill with a horse and looked down at the city, and Viktor Orbán may have just said: this is a guilty place, this is a sinful city. In the autumn of 2019 Budapest chose a new opposition leadership along with many rural cities, and now Budapest has sent opposition representatives to the National Assembly almost without exception. Therefore, it seems to you that he should be punished and punished by a large number of rural settlements. Your government does not seem to tolerate political and other actors independent of the government on the ground, but instead of cooperating with them, they use the tactics of grinding against them, and this tactic is also suffered by the millions of Hungarian and rural citizens living in these settlements. They are collateral damage, civilian casualties, and it seems that not only Russian troops are targeting brutally inaccurate missiles, but you, too, have been targeting brutal local government restrictions for years. So far, they've referred to the pandemic, now to the war, there's always a reason why they can take what's due to the municipalities. The solidarity tax will therefore be raised harshly again. Three years ago, only HUF 10 billion had to be paid into the state register to the capital of István Tarlós, now this amount has increased to more than five times, to HUF 56 billion, as the Budapest leadership became opposition. In addition, government thugs throw local governments out of their rent cuts. Thus, the patient situation is that the state supports the pool heating of new-rich people, but kindergartens have to pay the rent at market prices. And busloads are more expensive than those BMW guys in front of them. So much for sustainable transport. In the shadow of government austerity, the opposition and the Momentum faction formulated their own proposals, Momentum came up with a Budapest 2.0 package of proposals, as well as a package of proposals by the representatives of the capital, which I would like to present. South Buda, my district, is suffering the government's criminal policy. Many residents come to me with road renovation issues, such as XXII. Due to the intolerable state of Subotica Street in the district, but due to the bleeding of the municipalities there is no framework for the renovation of these. However, the state of the roads should not be the subject of political games. That is why, together with my fellow Members in the capital, we propose that the motor vehicle tax be returned to the districts, and 25 percent of the excise duty should be applied to the municipalities so that they can renew their roads from this framework, from this source, as it is unthinkable that, while the maintenance of roads is a municipal task, the municipalities see no revenue from a large part of the various taxes on motorists. In Budafok-Tétény and Újbuda there are many pedestrian crossings missing, and in the absence of them, crossing many roads is life-threatening. Last year, for example, there was a hit-and-run near the doctor's office on Gador Street, unfortunately, where there was no news or ashes of a zebra. But the Ady Endre road could also be mentioned, also in Budafok, where a bike park was built, but there is no pedestrian crossing anywhere near it. Therefore, on the basis of my proposal, the Budapest 2.0 package has included a safe cross-over programme, which would make the roads of large cities safer. But there is also a huge need to improve public transport in South Buda, as this southern corner of Budapest is developing at a huge pace. In NewBudan whole new parts of the city are growing out of nowhere, growing out of the earth, and therefore it is particularly important that the government provide a source for the extension of the spinning tram by Budafoki road and involve these newly built areas in the circulation of public transport. But besides the municipalities, the South Buda school district is poor as well as the church mouse, so the educational institutions of the part of the city often wait for a necessary development in vain for years. In the autumn of 2019 I spoke to the director of Árpád Street Elementary School as a freshly elected member of Budafoki, who mentioned many long-needed developments to me, including parquet renovations and other interior construction works, which have not happened since three years ago. But I could also mention that perhaps we can all agree that it would be very bad for the electricity to shake the teachers or students of a school, and that at Kempelen Farkas High, this is what threatens to happen, because the electrical system is so outdated. The expert has revealed a lot of errors in the system, but there hasn't been a framework for renovation for many years. There's a new handball hall they want to set up in the school yard against the will of the school board. But kindergartens aren't all right in South Buda either. There is, for example, the Green Mouse Kindergarten on Jacob Street, where the workers have been waiting so long for the renovation of the roof, that the many generations of preschoolers have left from under the leaky roof. (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.) But perhaps they have been waiting for a longer time to be resolved by the people living along the Lake Végrét, who have been under constant flood threat for decades. In 2010, there was such a huge flooding on the creek that the track of tram line 41 running along the river was flooded, and the water reached the waist level of the Card Street in Budafoki, flooding a garage, from which a considerable amount of oil was poured into the water, causing environmental damage. Moreover, since the tramway runs near a stream, the flood and the stream flow constantly undermines and weakens this charge, so the BKV indicated that if this situation does not change and the flood protection settlement does not take place, then it is possible to stop or even crash in bad cases. Why should we wait for a re-energisation, damage to the public's property, and even an accident to happen? Let the flood protection work begin! But let's also talk a little about health care, because although it is a modern children's health centre established in the framework of the, Healthy Budapest, but because of the design flaws of the former management, it is only a one-armed giant without supplementing it with the diagnostic centre, in which CT and MR equipment could be installed, so I suggest that we complete this child's health centre with this development. [[12.10]] Finally, in addition to criticism, we could also talk about our common affairs, in which the party sides agree. In the election campaign, I argued with my Fidesz opponent, Zsolt Németh, but there were two things that we agreed on. One of them is the Russians, home! It was a cry, which caused a major disruption in pro-government benches, and I could completely agree with it in relation to the war and the chapters of Hungarian history. But there was another common point, which we both represented in the campaign, which was the green development of the Danube coast. I hope that the governing party is ready to accept the proposal of its own representative, and that this development can be launched, which is also part of the Budapest 2.0 package of proposals, and that important developments such as the construction of the Danube promenade in New Buda, the mederkotra of the Bay of Haros or the complex development of the Danube bank in Budafok-Tétény. To sum up, my fellow members of the Government, I ask you to give up your criminal policies affecting Budapest and the municipality, rather than support the Momentum faction Budapest 2.0's package of proposals and the joint proposals of the representatives of the capital. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-06-24-48	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Elias Boglarka, Fidesz Group.
u2022-06-24-49	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, allow me to thank the staff of the Ministry of Finance, Minister Mihály Varga, Minister of State Péter Banai, for drawing up the draft budget for next year as soon as possible after the election in order to ensure predictability and adequate preparation time. The self - evidentity of this fact may become clearer if we recall it. It was under the governance of the left when, even though there was a lack of time, the House discussed the budget not in June, but in November. Yeah, that's what characterized the left-wing cricket policy. Thank you for having at least three million arguments in favour of Hungarian people knowing that. That is why I am moving to the budget and its lines concerning our foreign affairs. I looked at the budget, as I did before, on five aspects this year. criterion 1: is it the same, reflecting the commitments under the government programme? aspect 2: do you reflect on the challenges posed by the war next door? Option 3: Do you maintain priorities despite the difficult situation? 4. Will it provide the necessary resources to achieve the objectives? 5. Are the resources assigned to the right tasks? With regard to point 1, it can be stated, even if the budget as a whole, even if I take the external economic and external lines on the basis of the fact that the governing party fully meets what was promised in the election campaign. The budget of 2023 is clearly aimed at ensuring the peace and security of Hungary. Just as in times of crisis and danger, it is not negligible for the national government to ensure the care and exercise of our Christian culture and traditions, and therefore to meet the criteria of social responsibility and solidarity. I believe that the coming period will also be decisive in this area. It is not only the question that we can preserve our Hungarian culture and thus our European culture, but also how we can become a model and an example to follow against neomarxist forces. Let us not forget that Hungary's Government first recognized that the response to the crisis caused by the migration crisis is to promote the prosperity of those living in difficulties in their homeland, through the support of Christian communities who consider the creation of peace to be a task of their moral duty, life as a mission, and the prosperity of their homeland. This is what the Hungarian Helps program is all about. It responds to the emerging needs in a place, in cooperation with civil and religious organisations, to solve the problems, the results of which speak for themselves; let us talk about the reconstruction of schools, which often provides more than knowledge to children fleeing Islamist attacks, appropriate circumstances, attention and shelter, or even about the classrooms and workshops built in the poor quarters, where the profession can turn not only young people, but also the future of society in a better direction. But we are not only supporting young people with buildings, creating the conditions for knowledge transfer, but also with a scholarship programme. The scholarship programme for the Hungarian Helps program offers the opportunity to conduct higher education studies in Hungary, for young people between 18 and 30 years of age who are persecuted by religion in their own country, whether directly or indirectly. As a result of the scholarship programme, hundreds of African students have arrived in Hungary, returning to Africa after completing their studies and supporting their local community and homeland with their knowledge. But the help doesn't end in education, because if we need food donations, hygiene products, medical supplies, drinking water wells, or grain milling mills, we've been there, we're there, and according to budget 2023, we're there. Dear House, The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. In today's changing world, it is important to take care of our needy fellow human beings and to prevent humanitarian disasters by immediate assistance and, if done, mitigate their effects. The programme therefore brings help to the right area, not the problem, where there are also challenges to be addressed locally. The Hungarian model works, because over half a million people in the last five years have been able to choose their homeland instead of migration, and many have even been able to return to their homes. In this way, not only are crises healing along support and assistance, but we can also alleviate the root causes of migration. I believe that everyone has the right to prosper in their homeland and to exercise their religion freely, and to preserve the values of their community. Therefore, I consider it appropriate to use the funds allocated to this purpose in the budget. Hungary Helps is also supported by a 100% state-owned agency, which carries out the programme's support management tasks and the monitoring of projects carried out as a result of donations, as well as the involvement of external funds. This will allow cooperation with non-governmental actors and their presence in the civil sector, but also improve the speed and effectiveness of bilaterally based development activities, as well as direct and immediate assistance activities. It is therefore important that we can provide the necessary resources for the Agency's professional tasks in 2023. Let me also mention cultural diplomatic projects, as Hungary's support for this area is also of great importance. The Gül Baba Türbéje Heritage Foundation serves the protection of a monument that is not only part of our history, but also one of the oldest architectural monuments in Budapest. The unique historical monument and the related garden, as well as the operation of the centre, are all the functions of the Foundation. Thanks to the activities of the Foundation, visitors can visit the monument in an environment appropriate to its artistic historical significance and in a manner appropriate to it. The support of the Centre for Democracy Public Foundation is also published in the budget. The public foundation was founded in 2005 by the Government of Hungary with the intention of using it to establish the scientific knowledge of our country's institutional relations on the basis of the values set out in the international documents and principles of modern democracy. It will process and publish experiences gained during democratic transformation, as well as inform national and international public opinion. Tom Lantos Institute and the Institute of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs are also involved. The Tom Lantos Institute is a research institute, an intellectual workshop, whose main research area is human and minority rights in the Central and Eastern European and Western Balkan regions. However, the Institute will, if necessary, carry out projects in wider regions in order to promote democratic processes and to enforce fundamental human and freedoms. [[12.20]] It carries out an international activity that serves the citizens of both our country and the neighbouring countries, in a broader sense, the European Community as a whole. The Institute of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs covers Hungarian foreign policy priorities and also carries out research activities that are useful for our country. He prepares studies, analyses and professional materials, which, in addition to scientific life, help the key actors of Hungarian foreign policy and the foreign economy. He acts as an active actor in professional public life, including access to the wider public. This mode of thinking benefits the country in many ways. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I think we can say that the budget for 2023 is the same, it reflects the commitments under the Government programme, it has put Hungary's peace and security on its flag. The Defense and Defence Fund reflect on the challenges posed by the war in our neighborhood. Despite the difficult situation, it preserves priorities, protects the country's security, reduces the costs, jobs, pensions and families in a prolonged war situation. It provides the necessary resources to achieve the objectives, including a contribution to the protection of the country for those who, on grounds of extra-profit, can make the least losses. It allocates resources to the right tasks, reduces the budgets of the ministries and preserves the former grants. And perhaps more: the chapters of the budget prove the Hungarians' love, solidarity, and guarantees that the Christian culture of Europe will survive, be successful and set an example for the world as a whole. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-24-50	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Vajda, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2022-06-24-51	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Thus, in the debate on the budget, which was only the first debate for me, Lajos Kósa proudly indicated yesterday that he had already had his 33rd debate, so, to this extent, the standard of his contribution, but returning to me and apologizing for this half sentence, this is the third opportunity for me in my first debate to comment on the debate. I was able, as lead speaker, to state the position of the opposition and, in particular, the MSZP fraction from there on the pulpitus, and yesterday, on behalf of myself, I said why I did not think this budget was timely. I called this a fictitious budget, because in summer we are negotiating in an international environment where everything can change dramatically for next year. I explained why I did not think it was in the interests of the Hungarian people, what brutal and terrible restrictions it contained, and I also talked about why it was not in the interests of the people of Budapest, why it was not usually in the interests of the local authorities, and why it was not in the interests of the people of Budapest. I would like to use today's comment on the fact that from the point of view of my constituency, Budapest is the 13th single mandate constituency, in particular, this is Budapest XVI. The district and the inhabitants of Zugló - Alsórós should be informed of the modifications I have submitted. I would like to briefly sum up more than one and a half dozen amendments to this House, which are the amendments that I am trying to correct at least the part of the budget on which it is very important for my constituency to change, so, if you will allow me, I am going to present them to you in particular in the next few minutes. There's no particular logical line to how I'm going to present them. As I have tabled the amendments, I will briefly give them your address and a summary of their content in a few words, and thank you for your attention. My first amendment is about the levelling renovation of the intersection between Szabadföldi út and Ostros út. Here we calculated an estimated value of HUF 10 billion. Our amendment is about the transformation of the road passage next to the HÉV station in Azintota, a decade-long problem. Traffic is huge, HÉV traffic hinders the interoperability of the intersection, thus confiscating the traffic of Kerepesi-Vajda Péter-Szabadföldi út. Permanent congestion increases the nature-damaging effect of transport and has a reducing effect on economic performance. That's what one of my amendments is about, the remodeling of this intersection. My second budget amendment, which also serves the interests of residents in the district, is to create closed and secure bicycle storage facilities and bathing-room buildings in Cinkota at Mátyásföld airport and Nagyicce HÉV stations. We propose to put HUF 2 billion into the budget, as we need to support cycling to reduce the environmental burden of local transport. However, in order for workers to be able to access work, it is necessary to provide storage facilities at Community transport contact points and cleaning facilities where necessary. Therefore, that is what my next amendment was about. The third in this regard is to establish bicycle routes and cycling lanes leading to the above stations on or in parallel with the main routes of the district. In order to reduce the load on the local transport environment, we need to support cycling, and this requires the development of cycling routes and multimodal nodes at the HÉV stations; we propose a total of HUF 5 billion. The next thing is still about the HÉV, we have to build public toilets, according to our belief, at all the district HÉV stops and in the denser places visited in the suburbs. In areas designed for nature conservation, sport and relaxation at the HÉV stops, it is necessary to set up facilities for health reasons. There are also many catering rooms in the suburbs; the pavilions set up are not suitable for such use. This proposal can also be implemented on a scale of HUF 1 billion. My next two proposals are connected. It concerns the protection of the green surface of the Csobaj mine in the district, where a district plans to relocate an elderly home. We also submitted two alternative recommendations to the budget, one worth HUF 5 billion and the other HUF 7.5 billion. The first alternative is to allow a small background to say in this connection: we started planning an elderly home in the area of the Csobaj mine, and a second round... because the first round received a high bid, and the state did not provide adequate support for this, so we had to take the establishment of the park out of it, and we left only as an option in the second round invitation to tender. So this has not yet been applied for. Our first option proposal is that, as there are huge price increases and labour costs in the construction sector, and because of the extra profit never experienced in the construction sector, even without the establishment of a park in the second round, it is expected that the price will be much higher than the value of the building, and therefore the current tender will most likely fail, and the government will not provide enough resources for our local government to invest. It is therefore proposed that, due to the high price increases in the construction sector, the State should provide further support to our district municipality in order to implement the project and provide funding for the renovation of the green areas of the Csobaj mine, for the establishment of a park and for the protection of the environment. In this connection, we have a second option or another alternative, which would be about the construction of the old-age home planned for the Csobaj mine with state aid, in the area of the currently privately owned beach in Zzinrota, and the Hungarian state also provides a source for the complete renewal of the Csobaj mine on the green surface, for the cleaning and restoration of the green surface. With this, two of our today highly contaminated green surfaces can be renewed and the long-awaited, long-awaited nursing home can also be implemented. The acquisition of the territory of the beach in Zinchota is subject to the following conditions: One and a half billion forints, the restoration of the area of the Csobaj mine, the renovation of the green surface, the protection of the green surface, the creation of an additional HUF 1 billion in size, and the protection of the park and the green area on the beach are approximately HUF 2 billion, so we are proposing a total of HUF 7.5 billion in this respect for the Csobaj mine. Our next amendment could be interpreted in a broader sense, with the title of Zuglói and Budapest XVI. district authorities' budgets should be added to the level of government withdrawal in order to carry out local tasks. The management of district authorities has become critical with huge and continuous withdrawal, and the performance of local tasks is impossible. Our next amendment is about rent building in Budapest XVI. in the district of Bökényföld út, to support local housing needs. To explain this, I would just like to say briefly in an enlarged sentence that the number of apartments has been reduced to a minimum since the change of regime, and private building cannot replace the rent demand in addition to increasing inflation, so it is necessary to provide a source for this, in this case our specific municipality. [[12.30]] Our next amendment, worth half a billion forints, worth 500 million forints, is about early development support with an on-site and professional background and education in Budapest XVI. in the district central location, to support such activities of local and local kindergartens and schools, to help local businesses. As a background, let me just say that the need for early development is constantly and increasingly emerging in the course of pre-school education for young children. The compulsory schooling of children at the age of six assumes a level appropriate to the maturity of small children, starting early in kindergarten. In order to carry out this activity, it is necessary to support the premises, studies and screening of the kindergarten age group in the context of business development that the above-mentioned budget is required. My next amendment is the transformation and modernisation of an existing institution worth HUF 1.5 billion. We would like to make better use of the construction of the Sashalmi Market, because the market that is now in existence, which has been recently built or renovated, may have been visited very poorly due to bad planning, due to the difficulties of the weather, is less visitable, very hot in summer, very cold in winter, so it would be necessary to turn at least some of it into an indoor hall. Our next amendment is the energy modernisation of the institutions owned by district public institutions and district government, the total value of our amendment is HUF 1.5 billion, because the energy crisis has an impact on the local government budget and it is very burdensome. Therefore, we would ask that Article XVI be amended accordingly. In the district, in order to improve the energy efficiency of institutions owned and managed by the municipality, provide a framework in next year's budget, such as the electricity saving and heating modernisation of the swimming pool. The next amendment, worth HUF 4 billion, is Budapest XVI. Districts and XIV. Between the district, the Öv street, the Szugló circular railway line and the XVI. on the side of the district, at the Körvasztó line, the building of a noise barrier wall, where not only the railway, but also the factories from the Zugló side make a lot of noise, so the XVI. in the district area, residents live in continuous train and work noise. Our following proposal, which I will briefly summarize, is worth one billion forints: the XVIth. the provision of a tender framework for the energy modernisation of district housings as part of the 16th anniversary of the 16th anniversary of the 16th century. In the district, it is still a problem for many people to heat with wood and other waste. This is why we would ask the municipality's budget support for the application for investments and renovations in favour of energy efficiency and environmental protection in the case of private residents. Our next amendment relates to the jewelry box of our district, the Mátyásföld airport, with a total value of HUF 4 billion, which is about protecting, renovating and protecting the green surface of this wonderful area, and protecting, cleaning and operating the area well. We have also tabled an amendment to this support. Our next amendment is the complete renovation of the Csömöri út-Fogarasi road overpass, with an estimated budget of HUF 10 billion in scale, as for years there has been only repairing the overpass, which is now fully renovated. Corrections increase the risk of accidents because the road is single..., the unevenness of the road seems to be a difficult word for someone else to operate it at the moment, it needs complete renovation. The next is the raising of the highway at the level of the Rákosi út-Füredi street crossing, the construction of the overpass, worth HUF 20 billion in the order of magnitude, because crossing the rails is an increasing problem in the morning rush hour, as more and more people choose this route from the aglomration. In view of this, we have tabled this amendment. The following seems to be a large item, HUF 50 billion, but a topic that has been here for years before the House, and in essence no progress has been made in this matter: we have tabled an amendment to speed up the connection between Gödöllő, Csömör HÉV and M2 metro. CHAPTER XVI State aid is needed by the district municipality in order to ensure that Article XVI of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is implemented. Bedroom P+R parking houses are available next to district HÉV stops. Our next amendment, worth two and a half billion forints, relates to the settlement of the situation of the Azinrota beach, to the arrangement of the area so that we can take ownership of the local government and develop infrastructure there. At present, this area, the beach in Azinrota, is privately owned, neglected and used as a dump. Restoring the area and exploiting the green area would be important for the inhabitants of the district. Our next amendment, worth HUF 1.5 billion, is the 16th amendment. the transfer of the management of roads in the administrative area of the district XVI. support to the district municipality and the maintenance district owner for the renovation of the rainwater canals and the construction and management of rainwater collectors. There is a continuous debate between the metropolitan districts about what constitutes road maintenance and handling and who is responsible for the roads. In order to clarify this situation, it would be necessary for municipalities to maintain the entire road network in their administrative territory and to receive specific resources to manage it. The management of roads requires efficient drainage and management of rainwater which has recently fallen in large quantities. The following amendment, which I would briefly sum up, is worth one billion HUF, a specific location: it is necessary to establish a traffic light intersection with the XVI. district Pálya utca and Rákospalota border road, Rákóczi út and Rákospalota border road, József utca and Rákospalota border road, as well as at the intersection of János utca and Rákospalota border road. At the intersections of Pálya utca, Rákóczi utca and József utca, this is mainly due to accident prevention, and at the intersection between Késmárk utca and Rákospalota border road, the need to resolve the increasingly impossible traffic situation. Priority is the intersection of Rákóczi út, Rákospalota border road and Késmárk street. [[Péter Benő Banai returns to the Chamber.]] I would also like to say two more amendments very briefly, and I would also like to welcome the Secretary of State for his arrival. For a stand-alone fire station in accordance with Annex XVI. It's necessary in the district. We propose to transfer HUF 4 billion to this, because we need a separate fire station for the 16th century. in the district, so that the firefighters in Zugló don't take care of the XVI. Circuit fires, they're gonna have to cover a lot of ground. This is a very long-standing problem, for the establishment of the fire department, for the purchase and maintenance of appropriate equipment, a one-time and annual framework for maintenance in the budget for the implementation of Article XVI of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. for district municipality. Finally, we submitted it as a separate amendment, worth a billion HUF, to create a maintenance framework for the efficient supply of the growing residential area from the point of view of the fire department and to ensure this. These are the amendments that we have tabled to this House, and I trust that first the committees and then the Parliament will be able to support this in plenary. Let me indicate here, by the way, that I have written a letter in this regard to Kristóf Szatmáry, who is only a district resident, but who does not represent the district, yesterday, and I asked for his support, because he still lives in the district, and in this respect he can act in the interests of the district. I asked him to support and convince the Fidesz faction that they could support them, because they are common interests beyond party interests. So I'm hoping that I can get his support in this, that's what I asked him in the letter. Finally, I would like to say to you and to all residents, whether in our district or elsewhere, that, in the case of any type of development that we receive, or those that I have just listed in relation to the modifications, or in connection with road constructions or any infrastructure improvements, we will never allow a politician to thank you for this. Never! If a politician in a campaign is campaigning to see what kind of development money he brought to a district, he's in a total blackout. Every development comes from our common money, it comes from EU, Hungarian and district taxpayers' money, so it's always just us and each other that can be thanked for this kind of development. Therefore, never thank any politician for this, nor should the politician be expected to be thanked for it. However, thank you very much for listening to me, these were my district amendments, which have now been given the opportunity to say in front of this House. Moreover, I maintain my position that there are serious problems with the budget as a whole, but at least with these amendments I have tried to represent the interests of the people of the district. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the opposition ranks.]] [[12.40]]
u2022-06-24-52	Thank you. Dear Parliament, A speech will be made by Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, Fidesz Group. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2022-06-24-53	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, In advance, let me respond to the end of my fellow Member's speech: I agree with that, thanking Members cannot expect voters to do so. But it is very important that the electorate nevertheless gives an opinion on the work of the Members and the Government, as they have done now with a two-thirds mandate. [[Zoltán Vajda: That's why I won!]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 2023 budget is a budget for the reduction of overhead and defence. But we can also say that it is also a family budget. There are a lot of important tasks, but the most important of these tasks is to preserve Hungary's peace and security, to ensure the country's energy supply and also to protect the cost reduction. We also protect the country's security in a prolonged war situation, protect the cost reduction, protect jobs, pensions and families, and do not give up support to families in the economic crisis caused by prolonged war and energy sanctions in Brussels. This is reflected, ladies and gentlemen, in the draft budget for 2023. Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary spends the most to support families within the European Union, and this remains the case in the light of next year's budget figures. That's something we can all be proud of. In the following year, the 13th month's pension will remain and pensions will continue to rise according to inflation. In addition, the budget also prioritises support for Hungarian families, childbearing and child rearing in these extraordinary times. Tax incentives for family tax systems, the personal income tax exemption for women with at least four children, the retirement of the 13th month pension, the personal income tax exemption for persons under the age of 25 will continue to contribute to the maintenance of the purchasing power of families. The combined amount of family policy spending and tax relief is increasing by nearly HUF 450 billion compared to this year, to HUF 3225 billion. The tax and contribution allowance for families with the benefit of the first married couple is expected to exceed HUF 370 billion next year. Next year, HUF 155 billion will be spent to ensure that people under the age of 25 are free. Since the introduction of the family tax system, i.e. from 2011 until the end of next year, there will be a total of HUF 3620 billion in Hungarian families, i.e. they did not have to pay this to the state budget. The budget will provide more than HUF 490 billion for the continuation of the home creation programme next year. Compared to 2010, the government increased the amount of housing subsidies by nearly three and a half times. Next year, the amount of child food support will continue to increase, with nearly HUF 100 billion available for this purpose in 2023. This is about HUF 67 billion more than in 2010. The free textbook supply has become full since the 2020-21 academic year, and we will continue to do so. We will spend more than 13 billion forints on this goal next year. In 2023 we spend a total of HUF 3225 billion on families with children, together with a 5-percent discount rate of HUF 3665 billion on families with children. Compared to 2010, this is three and a half times more than it was during Balliberal governments. Within family-friendly cash benefits and tax benefits, the percentage of work-related benefits has already reached 73 per cent, i.e. compared to 2010, the share of benefits with the right of the person was still 76 per cent. Compared to 2022, the provision of family support services such as kindergarten, nursery, children's meals, camping, protective service will grow to HUF 566 billion, or 15 percent next year, of which only the nursery will grow by nearly 40 percent. For housing subsidies, CSOK, home renovation aid, tax refund aid, mortgage credit reduction aid, housing savings banks, interest rate subsidies on preferential loans, we spend HUF 495 billion, and we spend 28 percent more than this year's amount. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to this word, "more." In other words, we are not lost, even in this economic situation, when a global economic crisis unfolds before our eyes, we also keep to the promise that we will continue to help people and families in all areas. Today, it has also been said about the Women's 40suffering pension, that every year somehow Balliberal forces or powerlessness, I don't know how to put it, believes that the Orbán government always wants to eliminate it. Now, we created this, we haven't eliminated it yet, and you can see in the budget for next year. This is also rising by 12 percent in the draft budget. Family-friendly tax and contribution benefits such as family benefits, first-married benefits, under 25 and four- or more-children's tax exemptions will also increase by about 6 percent next year. The specific amount of wage support will increase further from 2023 in support of the nursery, the mini-cradle. Ladies and gentlemen, Family policy is a Community state policy, which is considered to be the core of the national community. We need a system of relationships that protects and serves the basic unity of society, the family. The most important objective of family support systems and policies is that people are free to make decisions about the founding of their families and the children they undertake; it is very important that families can feel the attention of the community, the state and society without harming personal and family intimacy. We have been working for these goals since 2010, constantly expanding the range of family support. This family policy has provided a stable basis for Hungary to emerge from the economic downturn caused by the Crown Virus pandemic. We believe it is important that we stand behind families during the global economic crisis that has developed as a result of the prolonged war, so we continue to promote childbearing, supporting families raising children and improving their quality of life. We continue to help create and renovate our own home, recognise the extra efforts of families, and encourage complex development of small settlements with a number of measures. The central element of the family-friendly building of Hungary is the family protection action plan, which is also covered in the budget of 2023. Ladies and gentlemen, From what I have said, it is clear that the government has prepared and presented a bill to us that protects the results so far that ensure the safety of Hungarian families and that it is able to keep the economy on a growth path, even in this very difficult, war inflation. [[12.50]] The draft budget for 2023 is for the benefit of families and I therefore propose to this House that it be adopted. Thank you for your attention, and allow me to express my own thanks to the Government and the Specialist, Mr.Secretary of State, his colleagues and Minister of State, because in this situation, it was no small task to draw up a draft budget based on the values so far and on family policy to keep them. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-06-24-54	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2022-06-24-55	Thank you very much for the floor. I'll try to be brief, one minute at my disposal. We have seen from the left what they are proposing to Hungarians next year: they are attacking the extra profit special tax, as they say that these companies should not pay, while introducing climate taxes and a global minimum tax, at the end of which people would pay more. On the other hand, as much as the war period is, as much as there is war inflation in almost every country in Europe, we are trying to give more and more to the most important welfare sectors: for health purposes, HUF 2670 billion, which is 1470 more than we started our government; for education costs 2378 billion, which is 933 billion more than we started our governance; for social and welfare expenditures, instead of 325 billion, it is 964 billion, which is nearly three times the original amount; for law enforcement, it is nearly HUF 964 billion, which we can spend on law enforcement, in order to ensure that Hungarians are safe and safe in the coming year. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-06-24-56	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi, LMP Group. Here you go.
u2022-06-24-57	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I don't know where to start. It was said in a previous speech today that the opposition was a neomarxist, on which I smiled remarkably, because, of course, a pro-government representative called all of us neomarxist, because of the neoliberal position from which this budget was planned, it might be possible to think so. Let's just think about it, because I don't want to hurt the government, but the government plans with HUF 7100 billion in VAT revenue, plus 4,000 billion in income taxes, with excise duty, as I recall, $1,500 billion, while the corporate income tax is less than HUF 800 billion. This means, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, that companies producing profits in Hungary are practically not involved in the budget. This is not a big surprise to me, I must admit, because if we look at the 50 largest companies in Hungary, their corporate profit tax rate on average stands at about 3.5 percent, even compared to this 9 percent rate. If you look at those multinational companies, such as Audi, MOL or Richter, you can see that their corporate income tax payments account is less than 1 percent. We have a large company with a higher post-tax profit than its pre-tax profit, obviously due to state grants. So I think that basically this approach should be dealt with, because I think that they are not doing their economic activity for our two beautiful eyes, they are not doing it for gain because of love. And yes, ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that this rate is so favourable, compared to which, for example, the 15% minimum tax that you are now attacking in an extraordinary way is indeed a minimum amount of contribution, which I think would be mandatory at least. [[Bence Rétvári: He wants a tax increase!]] It's been mentioned by the Secretary of State that we're attacking the extra protégé. We don't attack, we don't understand. [[Bence Rétvári: I don't know which is worse.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Tell me what an extra pro is compared to an extra pro. So what profit margin did we start from? What's the average profit rate? So we're counting the extra profit over the average profit rate? I think that this is worth answering, because, for example, if you look at the average profit rate of the mines, you can see that this is about 2 percent in proportion to turnover. I know a mine in Hungary, and I'm sure you all know it individually, where the same profit margin is not 2 percent, but 4-5 percent, so it is double. But that's not what you call an extra profit. I would also like to ask how extra profit can be interpreted in the case of a sector where, in the last two years, companies have accumulated losses because of Covid. Don't get me wrong. I wasn't afraid of corporate taxation. I'm just saying that a fair profit tax must be collected, tax legislation must be made so that the tax liability cannot be avoided otherwise, so that the arctic spicy pays the 9% profit tax on his profits, while, let's say, a MOL 400 billion profit scale does not pay a single penny. That's what we're talking about, Mr. Secretary. I think that we also need to talk about the vision behind this budget for 2023, because if we look at it, we can see that they are making it more difficult for the municipalities. I am convinced that it is a completely conscious and deliberate direction that will further increase the burden on the municipalities. Here I am thinking, on the one hand, of an extraordinary increase in the solidarity contribution, here we are talking about 67 percent, which, by the way, usually affects large cities where you have achieved a weaker election result. [[Gábor Bányai intervenes.]] Yes, that is the case, my fellow Member. The fact is that this is not only said by opposition mayors, but also resented by pro-government mayors. So you don't have to travel far, Commissioner Székesfehérvár will speak to you as a Fidesz Member, and you will say that the fact that the municipalities are out of the budget cuts puts the solidarity contribution in such a difficult position. I'm not saying that the municipalities are going bankrupt. I claim that the resources of improvements will be taken away, otherwise the municipal funding system called task financing will be completely underfunded. Dear House, The fact is that it would have been possible to set up a much fairer, more sustainable budget, where the budget is not close to the government, but to finance truly important and creative activities. And then I didn't talk about the most important thing that a lot of people have talked about before me, the pay for education, the salary for health care workers. I believe everything that's been raised and raised so much. But the thing is, one thing is interesting: you can make a decent living from these salaries, that it's fair that a career-starting teacher earns half as much as a vendor in Aldi, that it's fair that a nurse has to count at the end of the month, because his salary doesn't follow the prognosis you're otherwise trying to show people. [[13.00]] Today's news, Mr. Secretary of State, is that gross average income is 507,000 forints. With all due respect, why don't you find a new teacher who will teach you the next generation, your child, mine, why don't you at least earn your average wage? Don't they deserve it? 507,000 forints is about 300-330 thousand forints of net salary. That's... that's... that's how... that doesn't matter? ! And by the way, speaking of justice, I think it's worth talking about the LMP proposal to make public employees pay inflation-seekers. Then there wouldn't be the shame that, right now, is VIII. In the district, God forbid! God can't find a police officer, there's just no patrols. Let's take a walk in any district or settlement you choose, no police patrols. And the problem isn't that people's sense of safety is reduced, the problem is that people's safety is reduced, not just their sense of feeling. Today, we have no one to turn to who we live in this country. A few weeks ago, a completely shameful event occurred that the driver of a tourist bus hadn't stopped and we couldn't call a police officer; in the end, a lieutenant colonel came out in order to have, by the way, an argument, which was a simple traffic situation, to proceed. The fact is that the reason we are experiencing today is that many people on the street feel outlawed and think that they can do certain things because the Hungarian state does not protect our fellow countrymen who are exercising law, and this starts with the need to raise salaries to a fair level. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] and not be fascinated by percentages and other statistics. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]]
u2022-06-24-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to MEP László Kordás, DK Group.
u2022-06-24-59	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It seems with Minister Retvári... Deputy Minister [[Antal Csárdi: Yikes!]] can't stand the debate. [[Z. Dániel Carpathian: This will be an article!]] 'Cause he ran away from it. I would like to reflect on him when he says that VAT was raised by left-wing governments. Well, that's just not true. The 27 percent European champion VAT was raised by the Fidesz government. This means that practically a working family goes shopping, and otherwise, the Fidesz government takes 27 percent of its shopping basket. What we want with our proposals is to put this 27% back into the basket of working Hungarian people at least for basic foods. That's one of the things I think is wrong with Deputy Minister Retvári's thoughts. The other thing you said about teachers' wages: do any of you pro-government representatives or the government think that the gross salary of a university teacher today is 203 thousand forints, at such prices, can you accept that? I think that's unacceptable. That's why 12,000 teachers are missing from this profession, and that's why young people don't go to educators, because they simply have 150 net forints. [[Sic!]] They can't live, they can't start a life, they can't work on their careers. It's the same in health care. In health care, 9,000 nurses and workers are missing for exactly one of the most important reasons, and that is wages. So what I can say is that where the government is the employer, the Hungarian people earn the least. This is unacceptable, and I therefore do not believe that this budget is acceptable, because this budget is practically not serving the Hungarian people, but you are serving the Hungarian people, providing the Hungarian people with the need, deprivation and multinational companies. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and DK.]]
u2022-06-24-60	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group, for two minutes.
u2022-06-24-61	Mr President, Dear House, We have heard many times how well this budget is sound and how much it deals with families. I would therefore like to draw the attention of the Secretary of State and my fellow Members to the fact that, when looking at the tax conditions of the region, there is an outstanding situation where the citizens are taxed the most brutally in Hungary, and this is our childless Hungarian countryman, who earns about the minimum wage level, where, with the 41 percent tax wedge, we produce a very bad figure. We are interested in the government's plan in this regard, because I would support childbearing on all fronts, but there is a layer that is being taxed into coal and is facing childbearing, so that the fact that it is childless, where appropriate, does not mean that it is childlessness, we may be discussing a young Hungarian child with childbearing plans, but with minimum wage or around it, as the subject of our investigation, and it is possible that, with some help, the childbearing would happen here, too, in a slightly easier situation. It is therefore very important that the government has a programme for this social group. But, speaking of sustainability, there is one subject that is embarrassingly avoided by the government, not only throughout the day, but in the whole budget debate, and that is the issue of sovereign debt and its management. Minister of State, by the order of magnitude in 2010, it was HUF 21 200 billion in nominal government debt, and this 21 000 could go up to 46,000 billion by the end of this year, so we managed to double the debt at nominal value compared to 2010. Of course, we can look at GDP-proportionally just when we can achieve positive movements between 70 and 80 percent, but, Mr State Secretary, new crises are cyclically coming every ten years. So we do not see what the government has planned for sovereign debt management. Please explain this in the next reaction. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and DK.]]
u2022-06-24-62	Thank you. Dear Parliament, As no one has applied for another two-minute speech, I now give the floor to Mr Gábor Bányai, Member of the Fidesz Group.
u2022-06-24-63	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, my fellow Members, Mr Secretary of State, During the 2023 budget debate, dozens of opinions were heard by the representatives sitting in it, the voters sitting in front of the media. It was as if they were listening to the dialogue of the deaf, and we, too, were listening to you, who, depending on your side, deny everything you see or see, right, what is white is black, and you generally think that what is white is black. Of course, because of our position, we defend our own munder, its honour, but you have created a second reality here in Parliament's debates, which is clear to everyone, at least it is clear to us that it is largely not true. And the fact is that a lot of people are listening to this, a lot of people are watching it, and that's how half of the country sees who's right, but that's what democracy is all about. During this period of war, as we did during the epidemic, and we have only and only done that we have implemented and built central budgets that serve Hungary and the interests of the Hungarian people. With these principles, the parliamentary majority that has been governing since 2010 does not break up, regardless of whether I do not like it, I know that there has been an unprecedented economic crisis since 2008, since which times have not been this difficult, these 12 years, and our foreseeable prospects are uncertain, which cannot be planned, of course. The main motto of our 2023 budget is that we have placed both the reduction of costs and the level of expenditure and the budget for defence among the important, key aspects of next year's budget and we support it with resources. These are our most important economic directions now. Of course, you, the opposition, had to blow the war horns and attack, which is no particular problem. I have heard of a brutal austerity package, record inflation, special taxes passed on to Hungarian people, taking money away from families, row by row. But have you looked around the world, see what's in the world? Do you remember what happened before 2010, what the left parties did, what happened since they forgot all about it? And after one of their most serious experts, Ferenc Dávid, sits here, I have a respectful question for him. [[Zoltán Vajda to Dr. Ferenc Dávid: Feri, listen!]] that he now sees what he saw differently before. [[13.10]] The inflation caused by war is affecting Europe as a whole, but we can see that it is a burden on the world as a whole. If we were following or following your policies, what would we expect? Taxes on extra-high incomes, taxes on the highest companies, four-time bills, one million more unemployed, because that's what they were able to do at the time of their current governance. If you were dealing with a crisis, it caused an even bigger crisis. In April, the Hungarian people decided to thank us, and they still do not ask for any of this. If we didn't have a reduction in costs, no interest rate stop, no gas stop, no food price stop, it would really be brutal inflation, as more and more countries in the EU do. You are constantly attacking our measures, but I ask you: would you now want to free the price of fuel, the price of energy, on the market for the Hungarian people? Then there would really be brutal inflation for all Hungarians, and every family would suffer the price. We don't want that. You have been telling me about the release of VAT, but you have not accepted the reduction of VAT on a basic food in recent years. You claim that we will shift the extra taxes to Hungarian people, while you are on the side of companies such as Ryanair, which will increase the price to protect their extra profit, which we will not allow. [[Antal Csárdi: Compared to what?]] I have listened, my dear fellow Member. Why are you protecting the extra profit of big multi-business companies? What's in your best interest? The national government has already proven itself, and your claims are contradicted by reality. The country will have a budget for 2023 that will protect the country and Hungarian citizens. In recent years, we have proven that the country is able to grow stronger and more successful even in the face of global economic crises, and we do not want to be on the side of the little ones, but we want to be stronger. I ask you to support this, and let us build a successful Hungary together. We are not reacting to the crisis by scratching people, tax increases, world market prices for families, as happened between 2002 and 2010, but by strengthening and helping the economy, families and Hungarian people. In 2021, we achieved a 7.1 percent increase due to the post-epidemic reboot. This year, according to the first quarterly data, it was 8.2 percent. I know it's little, but he was here when he fell nine percent every year during your administration. The number of employees has reached a record of 4.5 million people working. We use the resources of the 2023 budget for the purposes that are most important to Hungarian people, that is to say, to support families and not to sabotage them, to protect pensions, to maintain them, to grow them, to preserve the results of the reduction, to strengthen the country's security, to safeguard jobs and to support the creation of new ones, and to keep the economy on a safe growth path. In next year's draft budget law, we will consider the effects of the sanctions introduced, the consequences of the energy crisis caused by the war, the inflation caused by war and the economic crisis in Europe. We therefore want to preserve the stability of the country. We're improving balance indicators. With a disciplined fiscal policy, we will continue to reduce public debt. Hungary was able to pre-empt 2000 billion HUF forint bonds, 430 million USD for foreign exchange bonds last year, and we continued this year. The increase in public debt due to the epidemic has been put on a downward path, and the share of gross domestic product has been improved to 76.8 percent. And believe me, it will be good for you that we will protect our achievements. We're training backup, helping families and businesses. Companies also want to continue their investments. In the bill, the government calculated a 4.1 per cent economic growth and a 3.5 per cent deficit-to-GDP deficit target, 73.8 per cent gross domestic product with declining government debt and 5.2 per cent inflation. [[It's constant noise.]] In the structure of next year's budget, the Rezségvédelmi Fédőség is replaced by two new states, in which HUF 670 billion is added, and the Defence Fund, in which HUF 842 billion will be available. With the Rezségvédelmi Fund, we will ensure that the Hungarian people do not pay the price of the war and the sanctions policy in Brussels. And with the Defence Fund, we will create peace in Hungary, and we would also like to preserve its security. In a few words, I would like to respond to some of the comments that have been made. [[The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2022-06-24-64	Excuse me. Here you go, Congressman, I just asked my colleagues to discuss it somewhere else, not here. Thank you for your understanding.
u2022-06-24-65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Kordás spoke about the support of multinational companies, the fact that fidesz entrepreneurs and oligarchs are acquiring EU funds. I just quickly collected the following. In the Széchenyi 2020, only in GINOP, this economic development innovation operational programme is supposed to be 30 024 entrepreneurs near Fidesz, according to you. In GINOP Plus there are 4960 winners and in VP this rural development programme has been supported by 271 802 producers. If there are so many Fidesz-near entrepreneurs in Hungary, we can relax, because we probably won't have much problems in the elections. But there aren't so many Fidesz members, the number of Fidesz members, as far as I know, is twenty-two-two thousand, so there aren't that many of us. There's something wrong with the numbers. And we have paid thousands of billions of forints of aid that Brussels has not yet been able to channel back to us the subsidies of the accepted and investment clearing companies, which we are trying to cover, in part, against public debt and some of the tax revenues. And what did you want earlier? Well, we were a country of aid, everyone here lived on welfare. Once and for all, let the left-wingers understand, except for our country... [[Zoltán Vajda: We are not all left-wingers!]] They know they're not left-wing, maybe they've met. Well, we all know that the Hungarian government is referring to the work of its support measures, tax breaks, so that we do not build on aid neither on childbearing nor on life. That's why we're going to stay on the side of the job, because that's what the results prove. Here they listed how many things... and they always tell me that, and I can't say I'm happy to listen, but they always come with fidesz oligarchations. This comes from your opposition. But what you need to see is that these businesses, but the other non-fidesz businesses, they're throwing together the tax revenues you mentioned. What Antal Csárdi listed, who said that he was in a hurry and I should quickly say that nearly 4 million of the 4.5 million workers are employed by entrepreneurs. The state employee is around 800,000. Well, from the businesses that have given the Secretary of State a lesson, no one has said that, because from the wages that the company pays its gross extra costs, it becomes VAT revenue, and you know it, it becomes a social security contribution. In other words, the eight hundred and a few million that you lack from corporate tax revenue are also thrown together by these entrepreneurs above it. That's right. How else am I gonna get paid, how do you get paid? [[To interrupt Antal Csárdi:]] I'm sorry, I'll listen to you in two minutes. Think of this position, that we are fighting businesses, that business taxes are low. Well, they're throwing together the $10,000 billion a year in the budget. Even the multinationals! And they always say that we support multi-enterprises. We have already calculated once, with Mr Secretary of State, that the car manufacturers and battery manufacturers have received an additional HUF 500-600 billion investment in large investments. On the other hand, we have reached 10 000 billion over the last 12 years with the support of Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Well, tell that to your esteemed constituents. Yeah, they get the multis. You come here, you bring high-tech, other thinking, more positive thinking, more modernization? , new technologies, and then they say it's bad, let's not support them. But who the hell is going to make this kind of investment here in Hungary, if not them? They get a little quote, they get a tax credit, but they throw together all the receipts that will make your salary, us, others. And here come the questions to say that the Hungarian municipal system is bled out. In fact, they're not allowed to hang out. But do you know how much reserve Szeged has? 21 billion forints. Szeged isn't exactly a right-wing city. The community is a great, beautiful city, we owe a lot to them in South Hungary, but believe me, a city can manage well. Except for Budapest. In Budapest, they made the wrong choice, and in this you were right, Mr Endre Nagy. Weak mayor, mayor, weak city, weak tax revenues, weak everything, everything, everything. On the other hand, Szeged is running. [[Zoltán Vajda: Weak forint, weak government! The president's ringing the bell.]] Oh, yeah, that's a good sentence, too. And after that, they say that the businesses I bring back in my speech, all the revenue that Congressman Csárdi has listed, they are throwing together 90% of the money together. I think we should help them with their work. [[13.20]] We are not punishing Budapest, that was an apology, Mr Endre Tóth said that. In conclusion, let's try to talk about what's coming. In this constrained world, this brutal budget will run with us, also in South Hungary, to start construction of the expected M9 motorway at the end of next year. This basically means that the southern part of the country is finally connected to the motorway network while there is austerity, while everything is brutal, the government is functioning badly, as they say. Besides, it's a big deal for us, and I'm telling you to be happy with us because we've missed all these opportunities. In Kiskunhalas, one of the best medicinal waters in the country is going to start building a spa with an amazingly high quality, high volume investment, which I think might also be important for you, because you will also have to be cured. At last, the northern part of the sandback had plans to start the water supply programs; at the sandback, this is the water supply and water recovery program of the county of Bács-Kiskun, Pest county, Csongrád-Csanád and Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok. Next year, the whole county will have an export plan. What do you mean, it's a austerity budget if we fund it with billions of dollars to make plans for professionals? ! Logistical centres are being built in our area, where the bird doesn't go, where we face the fact that the Hungarian border is still interoperable at some level practically every day. We have several railway lines in South Hungary, in times of crisis. But we're going to go ahead, so we're not going to go to bed and wait for someone to stab us like a pig, so we're going to keep going. And of course, our roads will continue to be built, which I myself, of course, always lacked, but in this country almost every 10 kilometers was useless before 2010, now only half. I would like to say one more thing here: there is this European reconstruction fund, the RRF. But also the other EU funds whose partnership contracts we cannot sign, because your European representatives are constantly pressing charges against the country. I simply do not understand why we are releasing those ten billion euros from the country because you do not like the government. They're making up all kinds of fake problems and what we think are important and, of course, we've put them under constitutional protection, for example, by the Child Protection Act, and that's what they're doing for an entire country, so that you're right, that we don't get any funds. Well, what's in it for you if there's trouble? Explain that to me. I know they don't like us, and I'm shocked to see how rude this is since I got back from the hospital. There would be no shortage of resources if we got those funds. [[László Varju intervenes.]] That's right, Congressman Varju, you have to allow it. It must be said to Mrs Klára that she should be allowed to pay for this Union. We have everything we need. [[László Varju: We protest against lameness! That you can't handle it! You guys suck!]] No, no, I'm sorry. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Congressman Varju, look what those charges are...
u2022-06-24-66	There's plenty of time for everyone. We can react by pressing buttons. [[László Varju: Sorry!]] Thank you.
u2022-06-24-67	We are literally reading back what the Hungarian opposition is sending to Brussels. So it could be said that even though the budget is more moderate on the development side, it covers a lot of things for Hungarian families, and I am convinced that the next year, if we join together or not, the country will be able to endure it. In conclusion, this 2023 budget, which was really built in the shadow of a war, is a vision, by the way, when we accept that we will accept it in the hope of peace. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the lines of MSZP, Dialogue and LMP.]]
u2022-06-24-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give you the floor, Éva Hegedüs [[Sic!]] Madam President, DK Group.
u2022-06-24-69	Mr President, Dear House, So, Andrea Hegedüs, and thank you for the floor. Soon, a wallet will be worth more than the money we have in it, because inflation has turned to pawn-cock speed. We're rushing our heads at the grocery stores, the market, the pharmacy, the butcher's. Everything goes up to a priceless level. Thanks to Fidesz, we don't see the end of expensive. Uncertainty, anxiety, lack of hope, helplessness and hopelessness: this is the atmosphere that dominates Hungary in the countryside. It's no use suggesting inflation through their censored media when it's different. A grocery stop? It's more of a food shock. In the country, shopping is no longer about picking between the products and the forgotten ones. Instead of stimulating our eye-to-mouth, there is nothing left for the eye, nothing for the hand. Many of the regularly purchased products are forced to wear out of baskets. Meat, fruit, vegetables became an unattainable luxury item. Browsing the discount newspapers became the daily reading in the families. The Democratic Coalition has been forward-looking before the elections, indicating in time that if Viktor Orbán remains, brutal restrictions will come. Fidesz explanation and denial, either way, we're right. The most deprived were left unsupported, pensioners can only rely on their symbolic staff, education is the cumulative underprivileged stepchild of Fidesz, health care is at the mercy of incurable patients. The budget of 2023 in Orbán is the Orbán package of austerity. People are making people pay the billions spent in the campaign. They won the election, but they've proven unable to govern. The Hungarian village program, do you know what it means today? Unemployment and penniless, one day on the street. People have learned the high technology of survival, forced to give charity. Work equals exploitative slave labor. Most of the young people in the region live on parental and grandparents' support. Their reserves were expended, no savings. Getting humiliatingly few unemployment benefits is a ceremony. The transfer of stipend will arrive at a huge delay. Today, families have learned to use the Excel board because they keep strict accounts of their expenses and incomes, although there is nothing on the revenue side. Even middle-class families look at the prices in the store. While the comfort of everyday life has so far included ordering ready food or going out to dinner, they can no longer afford it today. Do you know how much a small-town precinct cop earns, a firefighter who takes care of our safety? No. Otherwise, we wouldn't be here. People living in large and small towns in the countryside do not deserve this. Your village program is limited when food costs 44 percent and the decline in money is unstoppable. This budget is of no benefit to the millions of people living in Hungary in the countryside, as it will be the people living in smaller settlements who will be the first to feel the consequences of austerity and withdrawal of funds on their own skin. They will have to continue to travel for hours if they want proper medical care. In their children's schools, he won't be a qualified educator. You do not spend enough on rural road development, on the development of the social system. But they don't have a plan to catch up with the break-down regions either. They don't care about anything that really matters to Hungary in the countryside. For you, the countryside is the playground of the NER landlords. They have one goal, your estate system, apologies, the construction of a county system. They sell and buy moons and have their family members, friends, sign them up for zero savings in their asset statements. Oh, by the way, it's an asset statement. It won't be visible any more, because they're rewriting the property statements. They claim to be Christian, but you're a specimen of the real-world fake Christians. I'm guessing they spend a long time in the confessional booth because they have a confession to make. Many of our Fathers, greetings must be said after all these sins to be absolved. They don't start apologies on themselves, but on rural opposition-led municipalities. And the settlements are being punished...
u2022-06-24-70	Congresswoman, let the churches handle this, if you will.
u2022-06-24-71	I understand, Mr. President.
u2022-06-24-72	Thank you.
u2022-06-24-73	The municipalities will remain unprotected, which will result in unpredictable additional costs and may threaten the existence of more settlements. The principle of justice is not known, and every saint's hand is, so to speak, bent toward himself, but you are neither saints nor have ever been. The budget of a responsible and legitimate government would create conditions for self-management of municipalities and eliminate the re-production of indebtedness. The rural Hungary must receive back the Community transport subsidies withheld by the government, and the law ensures that it is stable for the future. And I can't ignore public education. They have admitted that they have made the work of teachers impossible in all areas of the country. Zoltán Maruzsa, Secretary of State for Education and colleagues, will you send him into the thick of school life to see what is real? [[13.30]] Don't just talk about the lack of wages, the lack of teachers, the lack of vision, don't design online questionnaires, from which teachers made humor on the Internet in their inability to help, but also do it for education. They've become ridiculous. In a village or small-town school, the school trip is not as it used to be, one-day trips are organised in the upper school instead of several days ago, because the offer is unacceptable even after a deal. What about the child living in the countryside who has been teaching mathematics by a Hungarian major for years? Geography, physical education teacher replaces non-existent colleagues and teaches English and physics. I call them ghost educators. How will a high school in the country get a sensible child if he doesn't get a quality education? According to the union, 12,000 full-time teachers are missing from public education. Do you have a plan on how to proceed? As a teacher, I wasn't the type to use a bad grade. Now, if the budget in the symbolic year-end certificate were a subject, the student slang would say I'd give you such a bust, one, and a secunda that it wouldn't fit in their school bag. How long will your national government last? Although I'm not worried about that at all, because if they were to shut down their system tomorrow, we could finally breathe from the yoke of our country. But for the educated heads of the Hungarian people, yes, I am concerned. Will there even be a nation if we go like this? 'Cause if we're on the current path, not backwards, and that's what's going to be spent in the central budget on education, health care, pensioners, social areas, transport, road development, like now, a few years, and there won't be enough teachers, doctors, nurses, social workers, firefighters, policemen, nations. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause on the opposition side.]]
u2022-06-24-74	Thank you. Dear Parliament, It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. Would anyone like to live with that? [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. I now give the floor to Congressman László Varju, DK Group. Here you go.
u2022-06-24-75	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Towards the end of the debate on the Budget Act, I would like to summarize in a few sentences, in a few minutes, what we have received from you and what we can learn in this sense as a lesson after this long debate. We have a lot of experience, no doubt, but I would certainly like to tell you three revelations, and to sum them up, and in that sense, as a lesson to us. These are three, so that there is no misunderstanding: the NER lie on a work-based society, which has been said so much here; the second is the rusty lie, behind which they put a budget resource that they want to restore and correct their own crime; and on the third side, we call this budget, together with its constraints, simply the Orbán package, and then our lives are simpler, and there is no need to explain too much about what it really is. Let's start with the interpretation. They've been exposed, and the work-based NER lies continue. Cheap wage, €350, and from a labour law point of view, completely vulnerable people are being thrown to investors. Once again, 350 euros, which you have, in this sense, said many times, often provide people with a much higher minimum wage. That's what's totally unacceptable. You have been leading the country for ten years, leading it into a trap that basically failed in a cost-based competition. Those countries, neighbouring countries, from Estonia, could go for a long time, where they did switch to the functioning of the knowledge-based economy, by the way using EU funds to do this, you could not do this, and the result is that hundreds of thousands of people are fleeing Hungary. Because if there is a family in whose family someone works in Germany or England and they are told that they work for a minimum wage of EUR 350, as there are over a million people in Hungary, then everyone can face the real situation. In addition, in this process, you have bankrupted strategic partners such as Tungsram; I can even talk about this in detail to the Secretary of State, but I am not doing so now, given the shortness of time. So they have been exposed, this work-based NER lie cannot live, and this is particularly harmful to Hungary. Second, they're busted. Do not deny that for years people have been given gas and electricity more expensively. From this more expensive sale, you could have been the basis of which, by the way, you could now finance the more expensive gas and electricity that are going to cost more on the international market. But you don't do that, but instead you're gonna make everyone pay extra taxes, extra taxes, and you're gonna fund it. So they don't give it to people, but the reality is that you're taking it away from them. The fact is, as it turns out, that everything that has been promised, or rather I say, has been temporarily given to the people in order to preserve their power, now they are all being taken back as additional costs this year, and they want to farm from it. Although I have always said that the political error you have made and the restoration of it is not a political achievement, and that, in this sense, you will surely have to consider it. Moreover, the lie is that the regular spending of households consists only of electricity and gas, of course that is not true. You're raising the rent. It is a complete lie, as travel, food, internet prices, taxation of the Internet, increasing the price of telephone calls are all included in the category that the inflation currently declared by the HCSO as 10 percent is in reality well above 15 percent, and, Mr Secretary of State, they cannot account for this. And so, as I said, all previous family support no matter what you call it, no matter what you say you'll take me back. Here is today's example: they began to drive the petrol cap out slowly, so that people would get used to what they couldn't do otherwise. You can't refuel more than 50 liters, can you, today's announcement, you can't refuel in a small can, so anyone who wants to run the lawnmower should pay 900 forints of petrol. That's what you do. They'll do another one the day after tomorrow. It's your practice to drive something out, nice and quiet, slowly down people's throats, so that people don't notice it in this sense. But of course, the Democratic Coalition rejects all the elements of this brutal Orbán austerity package, not only this one, but also the launch of the petrol stop, and we call on Fidesz not to make people pay for weak forints and the price of failed economic policy. Don't drive a gas stop. A few of them may have had their heads on today's restrictions, by the way, because they can fill up cars within 50 liters, but sooner or later this will happen. But here's the third element. In this respect, you have been exposed to the public, and you have been caught, because there are many restrictions. In this debate, remember, Mr Secretary of State, we were here together when the representative of Debrecen, my colleague Zoltán Varga, informed you of the municipal decision made yesterday. The operation of the city, which citizens use there from public transport through public catering, has been increased in each of its elements. What if it's not an increase in fees, Mr. Secretary of State? That's the story. They lie every minute, they deceive people, and that's what's unacceptable from this point of view. They can't even afford to pay for allergic children's medicine and keep these drugs in schools so that children don't die while they see the risks involved. Within a year, within a few months, he was unable to be saved, and there was a place where he was saved, and I am proud that all this assistance could happen in this sense in Újpesten. [[13.40]] And then you're proud that, by the way, global companies are not taxed on their profits in Hungary? ! Well, what's that for? ! Instead of hurting small businesses, they would be taxed. Finally, in order to face this, Mr. State Secretary, we have found that HUF 54 billion is equal to HUF 54 billion, which means that HUF 54 billion has been taken from the Municipality of Budapest and given to István Tiborcz as a grant, including a fund. Mr. Secretary, what kind of work is this? ! How can you do that? ! So, in conclusion, I can tell you that this is a austerity budget, called the Orbán package, which is smearing people. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2022-06-24-76	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches announced in writing. There will now be further speeches by Members. I give the floor to Congresswoman Éva Sebők, Momentum Group. Here you go.
u2022-06-24-77	Thank you very much. I'm sorry that Congresswoman Mónika Dunai is no longer here, and I wanted to rejoin her. My heart was very warmed when he said that he also thought that there was no need to thank Members for the things created with the taxpayers' money. I would also like you to discuss this with the individual-elected Fidesz representative of the 4th Constituencies of Peace. å Scissor-handed, Norbert is bowing all over the county for rusty nails. [[Depreciation in opposition ranks.]] But that is not why I asked for a speech, and I would like to talk about a much more important subject, namely respect, respect, and love. I think there are few things that this horseshoe agrees with every corner, but maybe it's a question that we're going to talk about today. I think mothers are loved, respected and respected in every corner of this horseshoe. It is a big question of how this happens in everyday life, because I think that both love and appreciation and respect are things that need to be realized over and over again in everyday life, we need to show it over and over again in everyday life, otherwise we are talking about monkey love. I am convinced that this is not happening in Hungary today. In many, many ways, the situation of mothers in Hungary is very bad. We can talk about obstetrical violence, we can talk about invisible work, we can talk about the situation in the labour market. Dóra Dúró also spoke today on this issue: the disadvantage of mothers in the labour market, which is an existing and real phenomenon. We could do a lot for the mothers, the question is that we have the political will. I would like to start from a very small step, and I am sorry that we are so few, because I was going to address a number of Members. Take Békéscsaba, for example. In Békéscsaba, mothers would be grateful if they were darkening curtains. I think it would have been important for Tamás Herczeg to know about this. But we can also talk about Orosháza; yesterday I mentioned that the lack of climate control is a very big problem. But I also wanted to address Sándor Farkas: from the hospital in Szentes, the mothers come out as if they had not been given birth in a European hospital in 2022, but as a three-day fishing trip in Kőrös, at least on the basis of the number of mosquito bites, because there is no mosquito net in the obstetrics of the Szentes Hospital. But we can also talk about Debrecen, where pregnant pathology operates as a sauna, and the only reason the situation is better is because rooms with different beds are the nursery section. I would like to make an offer, not a resolution proposal, not an amendment of the law, but an honest oral agreement here, and I would like to ask the representatives of the factions to respond with a nod or a headshake to accept this offer. It is a very simple small step to make mothers more appreciated, respected, and loved in everyday life. Will the Hungarian political elite undertake to have mosquito nets and darkening curtains on each obstetrician until the end of 2023? If this does not happen, the members of the Hungarian political elite, including all parliamentary representatives, ministers, state secretary, deputy state secretary and party president, undertake not to post social media on the day of 2023, do not buy advertisements in print media, radio advertisements or anything like that, do not publish daily communication by mothers about cuteness. Mother's Day greetings are very sweet and kind, and there's nothing wrong with them, but I think that if we can't accept that there will be a mosquito net and a darkening curtain in every maternity ward, we don't deserve to make that kind of communication. If we cannot fulfil this commitment, then with a single, cross-party appearance, let us all put out the following text on the first Sunday of May 2023. * Dear Hungarian Mothers! We promised that every Hungarian obstetrician would have a mosquito net and a darkening curtain for 2023 Mother's Day. We did not fulfill the commitment, so this year we are not worthy of a Mother's Day greeting other than this disappointed, admitting graphic. We apologize to everyone. Happy Mother's Day. We know you deserve better. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, So, I'm going to ask the members of the factions present, and for the first time I see that our country may not have anyone here, so I'll take it they've made the commitment. [[Defiance.]] I'm gonna ask Jobbik to do it if all the other factions do it. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] The Jobbik...
u2022-06-24-78	Congresswoman, do this in the factions. You have the opportunity to find the factions, create a forum for this. I think it's important what you're talking about, but voting isn't your job in this room yet. Thank you for your understanding. [[Interventions, including Zoltán Vajda: Members' freedom of speech!]]
u2022-06-24-79	Do I see a nod from DK? [[Laszlo Varju nods.]] I see nods from DK. [[Zoltán Vajda nodds.]] From MSZP, too. There's probably no one here from the LMP, so I take it they're doing it. Do I see nods from the Fidesz colleagues? [[Gábor Bányai intervenes.]] Mr. Secretary? You're probably in the highest position here. Secretary of State is still booting. There's no one here from KDNP, so maybe they made the same deal. Then I'll take it that Fidesz refuses to make that commitment. [[Gábor Bányai: I just said absolutely.]] Do you have the commitment? Okay, well, then the honor agreement has been made, so for 2023 mother's day, let's have a mosquito net and a dampening curtain on every maternity ward. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2022-06-24-80	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpat.
u2022-06-24-81	Mr President, Dear House, I promise not to try to get anyone to vote in the next few minutes, but I am very pleased to say that my colleague Gábor Bányai is here in this Chamber, and I am not cynical. We have worked very well together in the Committee on Enterprise Development, and I think that this can be a basis for professional discourse, and I would like to respond partially to what you have said. He may have called the various forms of grants and other forms of support for multi-enterprises a honeycomb, and I would like to argue with that. So what I am saying is that these global groups, which have built networks throughout Europe, do not need to receive up to 200 billion or 500-600 billion so-called honeycombs a year. What I see is that these companies are operating in a very different way, and my diagnosis is exactly what's gonna blow the whistle on the absolute wrong attitude of the Orbán government on this issue. Prime Minister and several senior government members have repeatedly said that they may wish to compete with the fact that Hungarian wages are not so high, we agree with them, and that they believe that the labour code is sufficiently flexible. And I claim that these large companies, multi-enterprises, are not typically coming here because they receive non-refundable support, which is much more interesting to them, it is the built-up nature of the infrastructure, it was also an acute question in your constituency, but I hope that the country as a whole is able to develop in this area, and the other is the predictable legal background and the economic climate within which they must operate in the long term. [[13.50]] This was mainly found in the Fidesz pacts on banking and other matters, that the banking system was often abused in Parliament, and in the background, with the EBRD pact, allowing the transfer of transaction fees to be passed on, they were always allowed to fish these people in confusion. While I would be a big fan of the banking sector special tax, I might even be convinced of the transaction fee if they weren't passed on. So I'm trying to capacitate the government on a completely different competitive approach. Don't compete with the low wages of Hungarians, be prouder! I am a national emotional person, I would place Hungary on a much higher shelf than you do, so not on the bottom shelf of automotive assembly suppliers, but on a significantly higher shelf. What I see is that these affected multi-company companies are essentially getting everything from you, and the Government of Hungary, in a totally self-rewarding way, is laying five carpets on them, so it's giving the multi-company discount in five ways that it shouldn't. On the one hand, it did so with the key to corporate tax, which has fallen to tax haven levels. For Hungarian small businesses, this was a 1 percent discount for multi-business companies. So there's a brutal over-reciprocation going on, and so is Bánai Péter Benő, if he talks to me about corporate income expectations, he'll see about 700-800 billion forints there, as opposed to, say, 7,000 billion forints for VAT revenue, if all is taken into account. The second major pillar is the mass of grants, and that is why I mentioned my fellow Member from Banya. I dispute that these are necessary, and I am scratching the government to abolish the entire system of grants, to reconsider and to open this up to the Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprise sector. I see that the Audi, which brings out a thousand times the amount it receives from Hungary in the form of non-refundable grants, does not need this, but in Hungarian terms they are big money, so Hungarian businesses would be absolutely in need. The third unwarranted discount turned out to be another look back on my colleagues when we went through strategic agreements with the multinational companies. My fellow Members, there are two things that have been completely absent from these: firstly, the approximation of the wages of Hungarians at least in a way permitted by productivity, not the Western European average, including the European average, whether Bulgaria, Kosovo, everyone, should be at least as close to the European average as economic conditions allow. On the other hand, we have not heard a word about strengthening employee interest, although this could have been done here, at the level of strategic contracts. The fourth factor is your consciously weakened forint. Five years ago, it was possible to have a legitimate debate about the fact that the forint is weakening due to various external conditions and spill-over effects, and the difference between 260 and 400 can no longer be explained. It is a conscious process and a process that is equivalent to a special tax, Mr. Secretary of State. According to all relevant calculations, the weak HUF beats at least HUF 1000 billion a year on Hungarian families more than they would pay for various goods and services at a normal HUF/euro rate. I don't mean 260, but even at an exchange rate of 350, the stroller, the baby food, the children's clothing could be significantly cheaper, but when they offer us the Szentesi pepper, and of course I also hunt the quality Hungarian food, I also use the suspicion lawsuit that all the production tools, all the machines used to produce it, are not necessarily made in Hungary. If it was not manufactured in Hungary, then more and more forints must be given for the euro it costs. So this is the fourth factor with which multi-company companies are completely unduly benefited. It hurts me even more that I listed these factors to you at least five years ago, and nothing has changed in this area. The fifth and very, very brutal area, which I would like to talk about in the time frame at my disposal, is the mass import of migrant workers. This is the fifth pillar, where you do nothing but to undermine the interests of Hungarian workers, to their detriment, to benefit multi-business companies. Hungarian labour imports are not only about a shortage of labour and therefore have to recruit workers' hands. If this were the case, you would have done two things for sure: you wouldn't have been idly watching hundreds of thousands of forced emigrations, so at least with a housing programme, a tenement program, and the absence of people under the age of 25 at the time, they would have tried to intervene about when the Austrian and German labour markets were open. But when the British saw that there were more and more Hungarians, it could have been interfering with motivational and motivational means, and you did not do so. The other thing they did not do is that one of Europe's narrowest unemployment benefit systems was not met with a free retraining system. I claim that at least 100,000 of the inactive, but 50 thousand, could certainly be brought back to some profession with the right help, if it were to meet with self-interest. By the way, I'm not a fan of unconditional or aid-like transfers either. Let's give these people training, but what scares me is that in your government regulations, they recruit hundreds of thousands of Vietnamese, Kazakhstan and Mongolian workers into these professions. Many of the currently inactive and unhelpful inactive could fill these. (The President's seat is Dóra Dúró, Vice-President of the Parliament.) However, multi-enterprises have ordered a much simpler method from you: organised imports of Mongolian, Indian and other workers can be achieved by applying increasingly mild licensing conditions to multi-agent and government-accepted temporary workers, and they can carry out mass labour imports that seem to solve your problem, but this is basically migration management. You can hold on a little longer to the fact that these people will go home at the end of the season, or they will only stay a year or two, so it has always started, fellow Members. This is how the Turkish migrant workers in Germany started and look at what Western Europe is doing. Germany will now replace the status of Turkish migrant workers at that time with those poor Ukrainian refugees who are fleeing a war situation and are trying to fill holes in a very, very scarce labour market, where at least the European population continues to decline and the increasingly smaller cake will be re-sliced and re-sliced by these countries. For Hungary, it is certainly not the way to import labour in bulk. We should try to ensure our own reproduction as much as possible on our own. And when we see that, according to 2016 data, the number of work permits issued was less than half than in 2019, we wonder how conscious this process is on the part of Hungary. In 2018, there was a huge leap, with the number of migrant workers tripled in a year. And what we can see on the charts is that Covid caused a break in this, of course, but since then, this quote industry has been powered up by the Government of Hungary, and now it is there that, hidden in a salad law, it has recorded that it has transposed the Easier Labour Import Regulation until the end of time, forever. So basically, these temporary agency companies are not properly controlled, they will not be subject to a fair licensing process. According to the announcement of multi-company companies, it is still decided in which industries they believe there is a shortage of labour, but this is not examined by the Government of Hungary with perfect deep drillings, but by multi-company companies. It's pretty amazing. Where is the national interest? And when foreign workers arrive in bulk in container cities, barracks, workers' hostels, there are two things that will surely happen: employers often start threatening the Hungarian worker: listen, if you don't do this and this, then the foreign worker will do it much cheaper. The other thing that can be guaranteed is that if the Hungarian employee then stands up for his rights, his interests, his family, his children, they will say again: do you want wider powers? Well, they're coming from the third world for you, what do you think? Unfortunately, this is the case, and this process is strengthened by the Government of Hungary. On the other hand, in the whole budget debate, we presented a programme of prosperity in the homeland, with VAT on basic foods, child-rearing articles, a rental program and a fair vision system to support the prosperity of the homeland on the front of housing. We therefore call on the Government of Hungary to at least consider these proposals. I know that the amendments are voted off in packages in the committees, but be prepared to fight for every proposal voted down, whether in social media or in the wider public. We will not allow hundreds of thousands and millions of Hungarians to receive articulation so that their voices do not reach Parliament. We will, therefore, fight hard for each of our amendments within the professional circles. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2022-06-24-82	Dear Parliament, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. [[14.00]] On behalf of the rapporteur, State Secretary Péter Benő Banai responds to what was said in the debate and has a 30-minute timeframe. Here you go.
u2022-06-24-83	Thank you very much, Madam President. Allow me to respond in two parts. Before I say the 30-minute term, I cannot go without saying that the two representatives of the Democratic Coalition have said words that you lied every minute, lie, deceive people, make people pay the price of economic policy, and encourage Members of Parliament and representatives of the government to confess. (In the notary seat, Sándor Berki Z. Kárpa is replaced by Daniel.) Forgive me, but I find it quite shocking that the members of the party who are president of the party are speaking, saying that we lied in the morning and at noon and at night. The representatives of the party who, at the time of the party's leader, during which party-supported government, the price of economic policy was paid by people to cut pensions, to cut wages, to cut family subsidies. And do you encourage government officials, Members of Parliament with Fidesz, KDNP, to confess? And you're saying that next year's budget bill number one deserves a failure? ! Congresswoman, do you know the official figures on the state of the budget, the time before 2010? Do you know that there were six consecutive years when the deficit was highest or second highest? Do you know that those deficits were far higher than the deficit levels adopted by Parliament? So forgive me, I think that if there is room for criticism, you should primarily do it within yourselves and not claim something that is not true. So when the price of economic policy was paid by people, it was the period before 2010. After that, I will try to make a brief statement in the context of the closing, because what has been said so far is not part of the closing. I am saying this because I consider the debate on the draft budget law to be sufficiently serious, and I consider the authority of the honourable Parliament to be sufficiently serious in order to perhaps be able to deal with more substantive professional issues. Let me start by saying that the budget bill reflects a value choice. This has always been said by pro-government and opposition representatives during the debate on the 2023 bill and in previous years. There's an agreement between us. A good opportunity is the debate on the draft budget law to bring these values and economic policy differences to the surface. On the government side, we believe that in terms of both the individual, the smaller community, the family and a nation, the rise is represented and followed by the values of work and the family. This has driven the economic policy that the civilian government has been pursuing since 2010, and this is the economic policy that also sets out next year's draft budget law. Work and family: these are the values that are reflected in next year's bill. At the same time, while maintaining values, we had to adapt our economic policy ideas to the newest challenge, due to the Russian-Ukrainian war. Why do I have to say we had to adjust it? Because the economic downturn caused by Covid, which affected both Europe and Hungary, was a period of a major economic downturn and a significant subsequent economic rebound. In 2020, the economy of the European Union as a whole fell, while Hungary dropped by less than 4.5 percent, while at the same time maintaining a high level of employment, and wages increased even during this period. In 2021 we see a 7.1 percent increase and 8.2 percent in the first quarter of 2022. So we had all the hope that the economic growth that marked Hungary before the Covid crisis would return in order to overcome the problems caused by Covid. At the same time, the war has brought new challenges. It is not a coincidence that not only progress, but also the protection of the results so far, has been a major challenge. In his first speech after the Prime Minister's election, he made four very serious commitments. This concerned the preservation of a high number of employees, the protection of family support, the protection of the value of pensions and the protection of the cost reduction. Following the value of the work and family, a draft budget law of 2023 was prepared before you in accordance with the principles of the four commitments. In this spirit, we are counting on 4.7 million employees remaining next year, and we hope that they can even grow. We're counting on the increase in the earnings of those who work. It may not be the same for everyone and not everyone, but overall, it is assumed that an increase in average national wages could be around 10%. We'll keep the family support. Next year's draft budget law accounts for some HUF 3225 billion in expenditure and tax reductions. Yes, this is also a serious achievement in addition to the challenges of war. We spend some HUF 450 billion more on family support than in 2022 if the Parliament accepts the government's proposal. We are preserving the real value of pensions. Since 2010, this real-value preservation of pensions has been a direct real-value increase, with an increase in the purchasing value of pensions of about 20 percent. This is a serious commitment in a war, inflationary environment where inflation rates in Europe above 20 per cent or above 10 per cent are not uncommon. In this situation, it is a serious commitment to preserve the real value of pensions. We also consider that the 13th month pension may be paid in full to all pensioners and all citizens receiving pension-like benefits. We hope to preserve the growth of the economy, if the growth of the economy exceeds 3.5 percent next year, pensioners will receive a pension premium. The challenge of war is also to manage energy prices. We are talking about war inflation, because as a result of the war, energy prices have risen to unprecedented heights. Undoubtedly, as a result of the relaunch of the economy, we have already seen before the war that the prices of some products and services are increasing, but again, war and war inflation have radically increased the price of energy sources. In this context, it is a major challenge to preserve the low rent of the population, households and families. For this purpose, next year's draft budget law will include a new fund, the Rezségvédelmi Fényi Fund, which will spend HUF 670 billion. Another major challenge posed by the war is the security policy challenge. It has never become more important to maintain our security than when our neighbor is at war. Hungary has also committed itself, regardless of war, to increasing GDP to 2 percent of defence expenditure as a NATO Member State, in proportion to the overall performance of the economy. This commitment will be fulfilled, and the date of the previous commitment will be increased by more than HUF 1300 billion in the next year, with a defence-related expenditure of 2% of GDP. In addition to the priority of work, increasing family support, supporting pensioners and the protection of pensions, the amount of a number of expenditure areas will increase on the basis of the draft budget law next year. This will provide additional resources for health care, an additional resource for education, culture, and a list of areas where substantial extra expenditure is expected. [[14.10]] Of course, it would be good to make more spending in all areas, but we can also say that we continue to undertake to increase the wages of doctors in the field of health, in a war environment, and we undertake that public education and higher education will also have more resources. We are working to ensure that these commitments can be fulfilled. If I have mentioned the main issues on the expenditure side of the budget, let me move to the revenue side of next year's draft budget law. How can we finance additional expenditure? This has been the subject of serious debate over the last three days. The government proposes that one of the sources of additional expenditure should be the extra revenue seen in certain sectors in the situation caused by the war and the extra profit involved in the performance of public expenditure. In this way, we propose that the financial sector and the energy sector are the two sectors where we can make a decisive contribution to the additional expenditure. We believe that the temporary and next year's additional profit tax on these two sectors does not entail a change in the normal business of these companies, i.e. the inclusion of extra profit in public expenditure financing will not result in these companies fundamentally changing their operations. Therefore, we do not expect jobs to be lost in the particular sectors, and we do not expect them to decide to postpone investment in these sectors. Employment, wage growth and associated tax revenues can also contribute to the financing of budget expenditure. We therefore expect that next year economic growth will be maintained, with 4.1 percent growth, and as a result of this high level of employment, we will be able to generate additional revenue from VAT, other taxes and employment related to consumption in 2023, so that we can be responsible for financing the additional expenditure on a number of these areas. Of course, we are not only trying to create the stability of public finances with additional revenues, but also need savings in a number of areas, so in terms of the state's operating expenditure, there is a budget for you. This is not a reduction in wage expenditure, it is not a delay in wage increases already undertaken, it is a reduction in non-wage operating expenditure. Another reducing and limiting step is to take back public investment. We voted in favour of delaying a number of investments, given that private and household investments, coupled with ongoing public investment, guarantee that the investment rate will continue to be high. In recent years, we have seen an investment rate of over 27 percent in Hungary, which is beating at European level. We hope that, in addition to reducing public investment, we will be able to maintain this beating rate in 2023, so that the reduction of public investment will not cause any damage to economic growth. I repeat: we hope that economic growth of around 4 per cent can be achieved next year, with regard to households' investment programmes, such as home renovation, home-building programmes, increasing household incomes and investment programmes that have already been seen. With this, if you will allow me, I will convert to the next budget bill for some macroeconomics. Together, additional revenue and certain public expenditure, such as delays in investment expenditure and additional expenditure in a number of areas, can result in a deficit of 3.5 percent of GDP. I think it is important that in next year's budget, both the level of the general government deficit and the government debt ratio are falling compared to 2022. This is important for two reasons. The first aspect is a legal aspect, since the Fundamental Law requires that the current government prepare and implement a budget that results in a reduction of the debt ratio. This important legal aspect has given credibility to Hungarian economic policy, and this credibility has led to the fact that between 2011-19 we have been able to gradually reduce the debt-to-GDP ratio in Europe, in a unique manner, every year, and at the same time the cost of financing public debt has been reduced. I would respond to the proposals on nominal government debt, I think that the answer to these claims was the price of market financing, because, as I said, not only the debt ratio, but also the debt-to-GDP-to-GDP expenditure decreased from year to year until 2019. In 2020, in response to the problems caused by Covid, the Hungarian government helped businesses to preserve jobs, like the majority of European countries, with extra expenses and additional tax reductions. We saw a positive part of this in employment data, wage data, and, of course, we had to see the temporary surge in deficit and debt. I say the word "temporary" because today we know that, after 2020, both the level of deficit and the level of debt decreased in 2021. This is what was worth in Europe today, when the debt ratio rose in many countries last year compared to 2020. This positive process will not be disrupted by the war either, so after 2021, in 2022 we expect a declining deficit, a 4.9 percent deficit and a declining debt ratio. If the Honourable Parliament adopts next year's draft budget law, we hope that this deficit may continue in 2023, as we expect a deficit of 3.5 percent and the debt ratio may decrease further. The budgetary outlook before the Honourable Parliament also shows that we intend to keep our obligations under the Fundamental Law, to preserve our credibility and economic rationality after 2023, i.e. the deficit and debt on a declining path until 2026. In terms of macroeconomic figures, I have spoken about growth, which we hope will be above the EU average, and I have spoken about deficit and debt. Allow me to make a brief comment on inflation. I have already mentioned that I am convinced that we are facing war inflation, and because the war is unpredictable, we do not know what will happen the next day, and therefore the period ahead is unpredictable from the point of view of inflation. I therefore accept the opinions that it is difficult to provide a prognosis for inflation, but I would like to draw everyone's attention to the fact that the 5.2 percent inflation forecast in next year's draft budget law does not deviate from the forecasts that we have learned in recent weeks. In the spring forecast of the European Commission, it calculated 4.1 percent, CIB Bank calculated 4.5 percent, and the Hungarian Savings Bank estimated 4.8 percent for 2023. And as I mentioned, the central bank gave us a forecast similar to the government. I repeat: it is difficult to provide an accurate forecast of inflation, given its external circumstances, given that inflation is essentially related to external circumstances, it is related to war. Therefore, it is important that, no matter how inflation develops, the government keeps its promise that pensions will definitely preserve their real value. Thus, if inflation is currently projected to be higher than 5.2 percent, pensioners will receive an extra increase. [[14.20]] In a series of macroeconomic figures, let me stress that the exchange rate has also been heavily exposed to the effects of the war. The government and the central bank have no currency targets. For this reason, the government used the average HUF/EUR exchange rate and HUF/dollar exchange rate in the draft budget law, similar to the previous years, to determine our assumptions. This also means that the free movement of the exchange rate can, of course, change the rate of HUF/euro during the year; in this situation, too, I think there is no danger in terms of the budget deficit, as the evolution of the exchange rate has an impact on the revenue and expenditure side of the budget, these effects are largely knocking each other out, so we cannot assume that the movement of the exchange rate would upset the main macroeconomic numbers of the draft budget law. And if the movement of the exchange rate results in higher inflation, I repeat, pensioners will receive the additional increase next year as well. Finally, let me draw attention to the fact that, at the beginning of the debate on the draft budget law on Wednesday, two institutions, independent of the government, also expressed their views on the bill. Both the State Audit Office and the Budgetary Council considered the draft budget law to be well founded and enforceable. Of course, there are risks in all budgets, of course we have to prepare for these risks, and it is also natural that we do not see everything exactly in advance. However, I think that the adoption of an early budget can provide a basis for businesses and families in a stormy environment for what they can expect next year. Allow me to thank both the State Audit Office and the Fiscal Council for their work, when next year's draft budget law was analysed and evaluated, when we were alerted to threats, which, in the future, will still have to be monitored in the implementation of the budget. Allow me to thank both the pro-government and opposition representatives for their contributions, both the words of praise and the criticism. I consider bona fide, well-meaning criticisms to be taken into account by the government. I promise you that we will keep an eye on these, and I must reject unfounded criticism now. I hope that next year's draft budget law will ensure the growth of the Hungarian economy in a way that will ensure the continuation of the responsible budget in a way that will lead to positive processes and progress in everyday life for Hungarian families, in addition to the environment of war, which is difficult to predict. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause.]]
u2022-06-24-84	After Mr State Secretary's closing, I would like to inform you that the committees will discuss the amendments next week. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of today's agenda. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. First, Mr. Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik: Speak with a title. Here you go.
u2022-06-24-85	Madam President, Dear House, We sat through the budgetary debate, took a fair note, discussed public issues with each other, but there is one subject that we have not heard very much about, and this is the question of the panel programme. We have to express that there are about 700,000 panels in Hungary, more than one million of our countrymen live in panels, and the associated renovation programmes or the real reduction of underground insulation programmes could have started in recent years, but they have failed. I claim that they could have started, because I basically advocate that we implement similar initiatives from our own resources, but even Community funds would have been available here. It was the Government of Hungary that decided to open these resources only to public institutions, and not to the population. We therefore see that very wide-ranging deep renovation programmes should be launched. As regards insulation, there is a huge need for progress in Hungary, and we also see that the appropriate budgetary resources are available for this, but the Government of Hungary should commit itself to this. Basically, we are thinking about a program where the instalments of the developments are meant by the savings of the energy bill, so we expect Hungary's budget, the government, to include the cost of the developments in this system. After that, it can be argued that when the energy saved from this is created in a quote, it is possible to reverse the quoted price back into the system or not, and to make further improvements, or to approach this issue in a different way, but it is certain that a similar programme should be started. It is also clear that although various developments have been supported in recent years, it is not as wide as I would have liked it to be, but the fact is that they were, however, due to the lack of expertise and the amazing discharge of raw materials costs, a grant of three million HUF in a given case is worth less than 1.5 million a year later. So we've witnessed a level of price explosion that has been unprecedented in recent decades. At the same time, we can see that there is a huge exposure to the raw materials market, a lot of times because of the disruption of foreign resources, partly because of the supply chain problems caused by Covid, it was quite simply that the channels were drowned. For this reason, a nation state will act responsibly if it tries to develop, as widely as possible, domestic production capacities that can serve as a basis for construction and similar rental schemes and renovation programmes. By national jurisdiction, I do not mean that the government selects some oligarchs and owns the important mines and processing units, but that I specifically mean that the supply chain should be organised in such a way that a government decision cannot be hindered by what happens to one or two continents, or if it affects them to some extent, do not do so at such a depth. So we see that we need a completely different attitude from the government. If these state-based systems are created, the ability of those people to absorb labour will certainly be justified, and in this way, if there are certain orders, perhaps Hungarian micro and small enterprises or medium-sized enterprises will be able to join such a system more easily, depending on long-term, fixed, stable orders. It's a very important question of self-interest. Obviously, we have a model that is closest to us, where the citizen has to put a minimum portion of himself on the table, but if the improvements are implemented and we save a lot of energy and overhead costs, then in the long run, the goal could be that the citizen should not cost anything, save money by creating and achieving developments that have been delayed for a very long time. Once again, I would like to emphasise that we are talking about over 700,000 apartments, over a million of its inhabitants. Since there is an amazing housing shortage in the country, there is a sustainable and real reduction of the rent that could be launched from just HUF 100-200 billion, and then it is certainly worth examining how widely and in what time all 700,000 apartments could be renovated. We must not stop with this program only for panel apartments, obviously for units called Kádár cubes a similar system should be developed. We see that this is one of the strategic and key tasks of the next ten years, and therefore our housing programme, which is named "We" is an integral part of it for years, and we expect the government to have at least a position on the issue. Thank you for your attention.
u2022-06-24-86	Noémi Végh, representative of Jobbik, also applied for a post-meeting speech. It's an address. I'll give you the floor in five minutes. Here you go.
u2022-06-24-87	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Inflation is skyrocketing, record forints are weak, salaries have not been substantially increased for years, and the number of births has never been as low in the first quarter as they are now. Many of the women who are about to start a family are in a difficult situation because, despite their desire to have children, the current economic conditions make their situation very difficult, and in many cases make it impossible. What does it take to have a couple of children in Hungary today? Safe family and financial background and safe housing. [[14.30]] Unfortunately, however, in many cases these conditions are not given to Hungarian families. Raising a child requires extraordinary responsibility and extraordinary costs, which must be taken into account in the planning of starting a family. What is the situation in Hungary today? Of course, subsidies are available, but whether we look at the lawn or the lawn, they need to be developed and increased. After giving birth, mothers can claim a single grant of approximately HUF 64 thousand, but this amount is very small, as we know that parents face a lot of extra and unexpected expenses in addition to the items required for basic child rearing in everyday life. A pregnant mother receives only HUF 28 500 per month from the state, which, let's face it, is not enough for anything other than diapers: we haven't bought food yet, we haven't dressed her up, and the child hasn't received any medical treatments that may be necessary. Therefore, we can see that the essential expenditure associated with childbearing amounts to many tens of thousands of dollars a month. It is therefore unacceptable that Europe still has the highest VAT rate on child-rearing goods in Hungary. In my opinion, at the door of an economic crisis, when many young people leave our country in the hope of a better life, and the number of births is drastically decreasing year after year, the Hungarian state has a duty to do everything in order to create a positive vision and to help those who are about to have children even more seriously. The Jobbik as a conservative people's party, as has been the case so far, will continue to cherish the fate of families. There is no room for delay, which is why I ask the members of the government to support the resolution proposal submitted by Jobbik, according to which the VAT on child rearing articles would be reduced to zero per cent, so these products would be cheaper. This proposal would not only be an incentive for those who are about to have children, but it would provide immediate and meaningful assistance to those who are about to start a family. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2022-06-24-88	MEP László Varju, representative of DK, also applied for a post-the-meeting speech. What is happening in Újpesten? It's an address. I'll give you the floor in five minutes. Here you go.
u2022-06-24-89	[[You will begin your comment without using a microphone.]] Thank you very much, Madam President, for the floor. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. If it has turned out to be with us at this very moment, it is very joyful, and I am sorry that the anger has taken him away in this way, and actually, what we have said has touched him very deeply, but I think that the situation that has arisen and is at the moment...
u2022-06-24-90	Excuse me, Congressman. Your microphone, please.
u2022-06-24-91	Again?
u2022-06-24-92	Please put your microphone on. And I'm gonna need the clock back.
u2022-06-24-93	Thank you very much, Madam President. So, I'm glad that Mr. Secretary of State is coming with us, and even if we have reason to handle certain things at times with a passion, but I recommend to both of us that if we talk about independence at the Board of Budgets, then how are its members independent if the President of the Hungarian National Bank and, by the way, the President of the State Audit Office are involved? On the other hand, we are living in historical moments, since the forint was not as weak as it was an hour ago; we are now at 403 forints, 402 forints 90 forints. But this economic circumstance, the situation, moves me to speak at a time when I would like to talk about how we put it in the title, as I put it, "What is happening in Újpest?" But since we have a very serious problem, we must now ask what happens to Tungsram. What does the government intend to do for Tungsram? This is the question that we have asked, we ask my fellow Member Balázs Barkóczi for the many times now, and I must speak again and again and again in this matter because more and more information about what is going on in this matter will be revealed. This story is becoming more and more difficult, as now according to the latest information, 50 percent more people are being fired in Newpesten, more than 600 people are being laid off. And from the background, if you will allow me, I would like to remind you that all this has started with the fact that just in the wake of the many economic crises that have been mentioned in recent days, a strategic partner of the government has announced that people are being dismissed. I'm sorry, you started by starting to amend the collective agreement. He put the workers, the workers, in a vulnerable position, created worse conditions, and then announced the dismissals at a cheaper rate, which would allow him to get away with it at a cheaper rate. All this is unacceptable. There will be more than one and a half thousand dismissals at national level, and in this process we have repeatedly spoken on this issue, provided that: what does the government intend to do for Tungsram? The Minister's reply in this regard is meaningless: we will help you. Help has been cancelled, and things are getting worse, as I said before. Overall, I would like to draw attention to two things in relation to our district in this matter. It is quite clear that the Labour Code, as amended by the Orbán Government, does not provide adequate protection for workers and that, instead of giving meaningless answers, real opportunities should be sought. However, it has already been mentioned, but we do not see that, for example, when state aid is needed, we have the European Union's Globalisation Adjustment Fund, which can support us internationally, and we have already seen that in many places such a resource could be required to retrain workers made redundant from the fund, to supplement wages or even to start self-employed businesses. But today, the government is not politically in a position to seek or receive assistance in Europe. I would like to suggest to the honourable ministers, to the government that, if they are in such a situation and not only the strategic partners are in such a situation, just because of the various significant cost increases, more and more companies are in danger, then this is indeed necessary, and I think that these businesses should be helped. Other countries have already applied for this fund. It is time for the Hungarian government to take the time to take action in the interests of the Hungarian workers and especially of the workers of Tungsram, if this has not happened so far. That is what we call for and encourage the management of the company together with my colleague Balázs Barkóczi. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2022-06-24-94	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next Parliament meeting will take place on 27 June 2022. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed.
