u2022-06-08-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 9th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that notary Dániel Z. Karpát and Attila Gelencsér, who will arrive shortly, will be of my assistance. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, Member of the LMP Group, has applied for a pre-meeting address with the title of current affairs. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2022-06-08-1	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The solution to the energy crisis is the country's energy independence. Climate rent is an important tool for this. Unfortunately, we are living in times of crisis, the energy crisis is one of the most serious of these, which is also intertwined with the climate and ecological crisis. It would be very narrow-minded to build on the fact that the energy crisis that is now skyrocketing prices will go away in a few weeks, a month or two or even a year. Anyone who thinks this does not understand the challenges facing the world and what challenges Hungary is facing in the coming years and decades. The more we depend on fossil energy, the more we will be vulnerable in the coming years, and in this respect it does not matter whether it is Russian oil or American shale gas, both of which are dangerous to our energy independence. We should reduce our use of fossil fuels anyway. It is projected that this summer will be very hot and droughty, and many believe that we can prepare for the warmest and driest summer of all time. If we don't cut emissions, they're gonna get worse. In such a crisis, the countries who understand what movements it will start and how it will rearrange the world and change the state of the country will emerge victorious. The government's response is that it is trying to ensure the smooth flow of fossil fuels. The LMP's response, on the other hand, is that energy independence must be created as much as possible, that dependence should be reduced, and that we also believe that it is not permissible for the country to depend on Russian oil or US gas. Accordingly, the LMP recommends that a climate lease be introduced in Hungary. This is a nationally available ticket for all public transport means, which costs 5 thousand HUF. Such legislation was adopted in Germany just a few days ago. This would help those who are disadvantaged by high petrol prices in the short term and have difficulty traveling. I ask the honourable representatives of the government not to bring in the 480 petrol price in response, because believe me, it is also difficult to pay many people in Hungary. Community transport can radically reduce energy demand and emissions in the sector and therefore increase the number of regular users of Community transport. Climate rent makes public transport more attractive and helps those who have difficulty in paying high energy prices for transport. For the first time, the LMP proposes introducing a climate lease for a three-month transitional period. As a first step, we should introduce the climate lease for three months and then have a real social debate about its success, not about its failure, although we believe that it is a successful initiative. After three months, after a real social debate, a decision must be made to maintain the climate lease. We think that, in addition to the favourable tariff, it is necessary to improve public transport, because we can make public transport as cheap as it is, today there are areas in Hungary where this does not represent a qualitative alternative to car transport. The total cost of the programme should be borne by the central budget, not by the bled-out municipalities, not by the near-failing transport companies, but by the central budget. To do so, the source can be easily created if the government not only selectively tax certain multinationals, but also introduce a general 25 percent corporate tax on large companies and multinational companies. Only MOL's record profit tax could cover the three-month program's cost of about HUF 100-120 billion. I would remind this House that MOL's profits last year had reached a thousand billion forints before tax. It can also cover the long-term programme if we develop railway and other public transport sectors instead of motorways, as we help a lot more people, we can ensure the quality of transport for many more people in a sustainable way. Position of the LMP, ladies and gentlemen [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] extremely simple: the more people use public transport, the greater the country's energy independence, thus strengthening Hungary's sovereignty [[The president's ringing again.]] Not to mention the air gets better and the noise gets smaller. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-08-2	Thank you. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Balázs Fürjes responds on behalf of the government. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2022-06-08-3	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much, you have brought up an important subject, Congressman, which is already a success. I think that we can have meaningful parliamentary debates in Parliament that serve our country if the first condition is that we make a good choice on the subject is met. We may not agree, but we cannot have a good debate without the topic being useful to Hungary. I think this is an important question. With regard to renewable energy, we have a debate, but there is no democracy without a debate. We prefer solar energy because the variation can be better managed and it is easier to store the capacity produced by solar power plants. However, I would like to put this forward, and I would just like to put it in a context that the government is open to serious consideration of the proposal on climate leases. Under the leadership of Minister Palkovics, Dávid Vitézy, State Secretary for Transport and his team are very close to studying up-to-date, this German measure was introduced in Germany on 1 June, and they are seriously analysing the possibility that the introduction of a climate lease in Hungary would be a useful step. [[9.10]] We are living in the age of danger, and I would like to define the context for this reason. We're living in the age of danger. Five clear threats can be identified in the world and in Hungary: there is a war, armed conflict, economic crisis, food and energy security challenges, these and drinking water problems strengthen migration and epidemics. We need a nation state that can act and protect its citizens and the security of its citizens, and national governments in Europe that pursue such a government policy. The Union will never carry out the task of nation states. There are three very clear conditions for this capacity: we need a strong political mandate, legitimacy from the electorate, and we have received this from the citizens of Hungary. We need sovereignty, which is a matter of will and power. There is a need for independence, not a drifting policy, but a sovereign Hungarian policy and a government policy taking into account the Hungarian interest. Finally, thirdly, political governance and a well-organised state are necessary for Hungary to be able to act. Losing energy security is one of the greatest threats. Not only are the prices of ever more expensive energy sources, but the question in itself is that it will be sufficient to deliver energy. Here, careful, thoughtful behavior is responsible for government attitudes, strategic calmness, no rush. With regard to oil and gas, we are not self-sufficient, we have a geographical, geopolitical and historical position as a gift, from which there is an Oriental dependence. Diversification and the replacement of eastern energy sources are a sound political goal, but let us focus on a few aspects. The introduction of another one-way dependence is not a good solution instead of one-way dependence. All capacity and resources should be given up only if there is a Commissioner, another source of supply. And it is also worth considering the relationship, its effects well calculated, that if we want to switch from any international, domestic political decisions or intentions to something that we need to build infrastructure for a great deal of money, very expensively, so that we can buy gas or oil from other sources more expensively than today through this infrastructure, it certainly does not just bring benefits, indeed. So, it's a complicated question. What have we done? What do we do? Diversifying. Today, Hungary is connected to six of our seven neighbours by interconnector lines, five of which have been built since 2010, with only one prior to it. We conclude capacity with long-term contracts in respect of traditional sources of supply, and we are also prepared to expand nuclear power capacity and to protect electricity. We are pleased to learn about the air-conditioning lease, and your detailed proposal, the Dávid Vitézys, are following this trend. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The German example can be a good example, and the monthly season tickets for all Community transport and long-distance trains should be considered with countless benefits. Let us continue the constructive debate on this issue. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-08-4	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Bence Rétvári applied for a pre-meeting speech Mr Group Leader, Dialogue Group: on current affairs. You have the floor. [[Defiance. Bence Turdai of Retvári: So, have you taken over? For signal:]] Mr. Freudi's comment, Honourable Parliament, because the names have been very varied, Mr. Bence Tordai Group leader has indicated his arrival later, so you're in luck, because he's here on time, and you have the floor. I'll follow you, Deputy Minister.
u2022-06-08-5	Thank you for the floor. Lagom, dear fellow citizens, lagom! That Swedish term means neither too much nor too little, that's enough. It's about moderation. Some say that the ancient law was created by the word, and others say that the Vikings had a habit of passing around the cup of mead, and everyone drank only enough to get the last one. Just enough, considering the needs of others. This is the philosophy, this is the view of life that makes the Scandinavian model, the northern model, Swedish life attractive or exemplary for many of us. This is why social inequalities in Swedish society are much smaller. This is why in Sweden we can't really see the patterns of the extreme over-use that in Hungary sting a lot of people. This is why the Swedes live in a more sustainable way, and this is what we, the greens, consider to be an example: neither too much nor too little principle, the aspect of moderation. This can lead us to a sustainable country, a sustainable society, a sustainable economy. This is one of the foundations of the vision of green Hungary, which is what the Dialogue proposes for all of us. Yes, it is worth learning from others at times, because this is not the dominant approach in Hungary, but what capitalism and the mainstream economics that idealized it say: it has made it one of its axioms, one of its unquestionable fundamentals, that more is better. They say the more the merrier. In a finite world, it can be seen that infinite growth, the continuous, excessive accumulation of everything, is simply impervious to physical limitations. And that is why this unregulated capitalist logic represents a threat to human civilization and to the Earth's ecosystem. This is why it is necessary to rewrite this logic that is constantly focusing on growth, and instead to set up one that puts man first, not profit, which serves man, serves society, and does not consider the economy to be a self-target. We recommend the philosophy of lagom for Hungarian society, the Hungarian people. Let's all have enough. So when we talk about basic income, for example, when dialogue proposes the introduction of basic income, it says that many today have too little, that is not lagom. And when we say tax the hyper-rich or tax the overgrown international giant companies, we say that they have too much, that I don't have lag. [[Bence Rétvári: That's why you spoke yesterday for Aldi, isn't it?]] So you're gonna have to take it back. We need to reduce differences and make our way of life sustainable, that's what the philosophy of lagom is all about. [[9.20]] This is what can form the foundation of green Hungary, and this is what we, standing on the ground, are criticising in general this loss of global capitalism, and especially Hungarian political capitalism. I'm not sure that after a lifetime of work, an elderly citizen gets a pension of 60-80,000 forints. And I'm not sure that Lőrinc Mészáros is stockpiling hundreds of billions of forints without any actual merit, performance, talent. And I don't think the son of the central bank president buys his fifth vintage Porsche, and I don't think that many people whistle the wind on the window or no toilet in the house, raise children without running water in the household. It's not all lagom. We suggest that we rethink our thinking, let the directive, the guiding principle on which we set up a just and sustainable society, be our directive sufficiently limited. We, the dialogueists, are proposing this approach to all of us, and on this basis we are criticising the system, your political and economic system, the one which accumulates too much of power in the hands of some people and, by the way, unworthy of it, and leaves too little for the division of power, too little for social control. And we see the same thing in the economy, too much wealth and too much income pile up on the hands of some, and there is almost nothing in the hands of others. I really only wish for all of us to have lagom, just enough, to have moderation in power, politics, economy, society our main guiding principle, and to reach a happier green Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-08-6	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Tordai... I'm sorry, Secretary of State, Tuzson Bence is responding. [[Defiance.]] I think that today, with Mr Tordai, Mr Group leader, we have finally closed the debate. That's right, when we look at who comes into the House and we continue the meeting. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2022-06-08-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. So the Bencs are one to another, but what a difference [[Delight and applause.]] Let's not forget that. My fellow Member, I listened to your speech as Bence, and I thought about it because he began to talk about moderation, which was very, very surprising, because there was a lot of character for your speeches when he was running around Parliament, or putting different signs and cameras and standing in front of the Prime Minister, then there was a lot of characteristics, but you weren't exactly moderate. This is a serious turnaround and we will be wondering how this moderation will prevail in Parliament's work in the next period. I hope you've learned from what the voters have said, because yet a party like your party, the foreign branch of the Gyurcsány Party, as our group leader said recently, may change. As my fellow Member says, this speech is a sort of anarchist, but I prefer to say that it was a communist speech. These calling words were characteristic of communism. Not everyone remembers, I was a small child, but I remember those calling words well. Let us see how these sound here within the walls of Parliament. (Gelencsér Attila takes his place in the notary seat. ) When we ask such a question, I think it is worth discussing what the main purpose of the state is, what the goal is, what we want to achieve as a Hungarian government, as a Hungarian Parliament, as a Hungarian state. After all, our aim is to create a kind of public good, and our goal is to make people live better and better in Hungary. And this better way includes a question such as energy. But to take it from the right side, my fellow Member, it can be explained that there is energy, energy in the next period, and, if there is, energy in Hungary. And you can see that Europe has an energy policy, and this energy policy is a failed energy policy. This is also apparent from the fact that energy prices in Western Europe have started to increase more than once. And could we begin to break off the consequences of what? Of course, a war came in here, as a result of the war, the European Union has taken oil-related measures, which Hungary can stay out of, but most of Europe cannot stay out of, and this will have consequences for oil prices. I ask you, if oil prices start to rise, will the European economy and Europe be able to sacrifice more money to replace it. Because it doesn't usually happen that the price of something goes up, and then suddenly they start to introduce trigger technologies that are even more expensive at that moment, but there's usually no money for that. Well, that's a danger, by the way, in the next period. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Member that what we are talking about is that alternative energy sources are important, solar panels, as Parliamentary Secretary Balázs Fürjes has just said, are a very important area in Hungary, but I also need to be prepared for every investment that we invest in solar cells to transform our network, which means hundreds or thousands of billions of forints to simplify the issue. The network that is now in Hungary was not designed ten, twenty, thirty, fifty years ago to achieve energy from many small end-points, i.e. from many small producers to many small consumers, but was designed to arrive from large production units or from abroad to Hungary and to divide it into small end-points. This means a different type of networking and a different network structure. Otherwise, it is important to focus on the fact that the amount of solar energy in Hungary is increasing in incredible quantities, almost a block of Paks is what we are already producing from this point of view, but its balancing and balancing is a serious problem, because solar energy alone is an expensive energy, because we cannot store energy. We will be able to store energy when the technological conditions for this are met until this is achieved, and we will need to replace it with other energy, that is to say, gas power plants. Today, large gas power companies are going incredibly well because we are installing solar energy, so we are double building capacity in the world at the moment. So we must be prepared to move this direction forward in this situation, and it will be more expensive. And when it comes to moderation, please also consider what is good for Hungarian people when it comes to spending money in Hungary. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-08-8	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mr President Novák, Mi Hazank Group, asked for a pre-scheduled speech: support for Ukraine's unconditional accession to the EU is a diplomatic surrender of arms, the delivery of Transcarpathian Hungarians to the Ukrainian government of the sovinist. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-06-08-9	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Unfortunately, the government and the unintelligently united opposition have expressed their support for Ukraine's early, essentially unconditional membership of the European Union, which could bring our country to war at the command of the globalists, thus betraying Hungarian national interests. With the support of Ukraine's EU recruitment, they will bring on Russia's anger and would also be a huge financial and economic burden. The embargo against the Russians has already caused invaluable damage to the Hungarian economy, which is why prices continue to rise, inflation is increasing, and this can also cause supply disruptions. Let the Hungarian interest be the first! Unfortunately, the government has also raised its voice only in relation to energy sources, while quietly assisting the Hungarian economy, especially the embargo on Hungarian agriculture, in recent years. Therefore, Mi Hazank Movement asks the Hungarian government not to provoke the Russians with the support of Ukraine's unconditional accession to the EU, as it did and unfortunately does recently with the announcement of a war emergency, with military preparation. We did not support the Government's proposal to amend the basic law, which aimed at broadening the status of an emergency by referring to war situations in neighbouring countries. After the coronal virus, the government apparently sought a new way to keep Hungarian people under restrictions in extraordinary legal order, but we have highlighted its persuasion. [[9.30]] The announcement of a war emergency also means armed preparations, and it has a diplomatically wrong message. Instead, the foreign government decision allowing NATO combat groups to enter Hungary should be withdrawn, because the country's military procession area is causing a real emergency for our country. After allowing NATO troops to be deployed into our country in the framework of the US-Russian war, despite the government's earlier promise, Mi Hazak remained the only party to speak in favour of Hungary's independence. Foreign forces have no place in our country, Hungary belongs to the Hungarians. The papal base airport, which is a major American heavy-duty air carrier regiment, should not be in our country. Our contractual obligation arising from our NATO membership would only help to protect it if another Member State was attacked, but Ukraine is not a NATO member. The Hungarian Movement therefore opposes the military support of the Soviet Ukraine, which pursues a repressive policy against the Hungarian national part of Transcarpathia, as well as the service of American interests. It is also unacceptable that the government has allowed the transfer of arms indirectly to Ukraine through Hungary, only indirectly, through another NATO Member State, but also using the territory of our country. The Hungarian Movement therefore opposes this kind of participation of our country in the war. The stationing of foreign forces in Hungary and making our country a target of the Russian nuclear forces have unfathomable consequences. Instead of folding Ukraine's territorial integrity, the Hungarian government should stop Transcarpathian Hungarians from being used as bullets, because this is not our war. The Hungarian Defence Forces should not be the expendable aide team of the Atlantist military alliance. The Hungarian nation has sacrificed countless sons in wars for foreign interests, it is time to break this bad tradition. Unfortunately, today only Mi Hazank represents the demand of the young men of March 1848 not to take our Hungarian soldiers abroad, to take the foreigners away from us. We also oppose the participation of the Hungarian Defence Forces in foreign occupations in the service of foreign interests, from the billions spent in Afghanistan, Iraq, Mali and similar occupations, we would provide more attractive domestic remuneration and modern equipment, and more serious domestic military exercises for our soldiers. Instead of the modular development of forces focusing on foreign services, the overall development and planning of the defence of the country is encouraged by the Hungarian Defence Programme, so I recommend our movement. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] its policy for consideration in order to create national independence. Thank you very much. [[Dr. István Apáti applauds.]]
u2022-06-08-10	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Tamás Menczer wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2022-06-08-11	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, If I understand your speech correctly, there is a cross-border dimension and also a dimension for Hungary; allow me to start with the foreigners. He raised a very important question, and we are after the day of national integration, and he spoke about the representation of foreign nationals. I would like to inform you and this House that representation of foreign Hungarians is the cornerstone of our foreign policy, and it comes from our hearts. So the Orbán government has never abandoned it, has never betrayed the Hungarians from abroad, and will never do so, on the contrary, we are always there for them and always stand up for them. We chose the solution, i.e. perception, that we do not want to tell Budapest how Hungarians from abroad should live, on the contrary, we ask them, and we support the proposals and solutions they ask us to do. We are looking for alliances and making alliances, if possible, with neighbouring countries and everyone else, because we believe that it is much better for foreign Hungarians if the two governments and the two countries are in good company with each other than if there is conflict between the two countries. But if there is a conflict for foreign Hungarians, then we are always prepared to do so, and we always accept this conflict for their sake. I would like to remind you that, prior to the outbreak of the war, the rights of foreign Hungarians and Hungarians in Transcarpathia were constantly undermined, taken away from the use of mother tongue, native language education, and it could be mentioned that we, on the other hand, took the most decisive action, had to put up with a lot of pressure, and we had to deal with it, but we were always there for the Hungarians in Transcarpathia. At the same time, unfortunately, the war broke out, as is known to all of us, which is why the previous conflicts have been put aside, at least temporarily, and we are helping those in distress, Hungarians and not Hungarians alike. As you know, 740-750 thousand people have fled from the war to Hungary, around 2 thousand tons of relief supplies that we took there, in Warsaw, the Minister of Foreign Affairs made a five-point offer to rebuild schools, hospitals, to set up mobile homes in Western Ukraine for internal refugees, and could be classified. If you mention that despite all this, despite the fact that a significant part of Ukrainian statements are unacceptable despite Hungarian assistance, I have to say that you are right about this, rather than thank you, we get criticism or even a threat, which is, of course, unacceptable, and which we also speak about and take action against. I would like to remind you that we have supported Ukraine's accession to the European Union, just to underline the facts. So you were talking about unconditional membership, and I was talking about the European Union candidateship, just sticking to the facts. As far as the wider internal political spectrum is concerned, the Hungarian government is in a political context, there is the left and you are now an extreme right-wing party. It can be seen that the perception of the left has not changed, so the Hungarians from abroad are still attacked by the left led by Ferenc Gyurcsány, and now Péter Niedermüller was pleased with Trianon from the Gyurcsány Party, and Tamás Bauer led the long essay or paper on why Trianon was fairer or actually fairer than the situation before. So the Hungarians from abroad obviously cannot count on the left, and otherwise I believe that you, to be subtle, would also be dangerous to the Hungarians from abroad. Finally, as far as the country is concerned, you mentioned the Hungarian interest. We can agree that the Hungarian interest is the most important, and the government represents it. My problem is that a lot of what you have told me, I don't think it's for the Hungarian interest. Energy supply and energy security are indeed Hungarian interests, which is why we do not support any sanctions that would ruin this. I would like to make one more misunderstanding, I thought the government made it clear that this war is not our war, we are not sending soldiers and weapons. That is our position, please do not spread rumors and false news. We are left out of this war, the Hungarian people made a clear decision on 3 April, in which they support the government, accordingly [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] We're gonna stay out of this war. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-08-12	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Dezső Szigély, MSZP Group, spoke before the agenda: on the subject of current issues. You have the floor.
u2022-06-08-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies, Mr. Secretary of State! Fellow Members! More and more people in the country are sensing trouble. There is a problem because the government has started to raise money: it creates funds, billion-dollar funds, we are not talking about a few billion, it obviously has a lack of resources in a thousand-billion-dollar scale. There's a problem because the population feels double the rate of official inflation. Food prices are out of control, and we already know what it will mean when the population will feel through businesses what it means if energy prices are released. I think the best of it is yet to come. There is a problem, because it is now well felt that this crisis will spread to all corners of life, and no one is expected to be left out of it, at least not by ordinary people. There's a problem, because almost all the elements of the measures are taking money away from the population, and there's a problem, because when we analyze what's causing it, we're going to blame it for the war. [[9.40]] Yet, the first element of this has already been published significantly earlier, it is called pre-election distribution. [[Bence Rétvári: Oh!]] It was a thousand billion-dollar scale. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] And I think that every real economic background, you could say, is without collateral. There is a problem because it has just been admitted that the reduction in overhead costs is not sustainable, which is why this fund was created. [[Bence Rétvári: You've been saying this for ten years!]] even a specific Commissioner has been appointed to try to maintain this, and I see it becoming increasingly difficult to ensure this sustainability. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You've been saying that for eight years!]] And there's a problem, because the cost of reducing the rent is being collected from the public. The damage to extra-profit, small and medium-sized enterprises and municipalities is real damage to people. Well, if you're looking at this extra-profit tax, there's something special about it that has nothing to do with extra-profit, I've looked at the sectors that actually produce extra-profit. Road and railway construction, 4.7 times the profits of the average Hungarian businesses, but I do not see them here at the sectoral special tax, otherwise I think it is clear to everyone that this is Lőrinc Mészáros and his circle; two and a half times the profits of the gravel, sand and clay mining sector, which is also called extra profit in this sense, and I do not see them very much here among the sectors. But we can be sure that the banks affected by designated special taxes, insurance companies, airlines and various telecommunications companies will pass on to families what the state has hit them with, so it was a few years ago. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] We can't count on anything else right now. The airlines have already published some figures that will increase the price of the tickets between HUF 4 and HUF 9 000, which will pay for it, and we will pay for it. And there's a problem, because small and medium-sized companies suffering from the epidemic, who have just been off the ventilator, will not be able to raise energy prices three to four times, and they will raise prices. We'll pay for it. The hairdresser, the carpenter and the gasman will also raise a price. And there's a problem, because municipalities are not companies that produce extra profit. And there are people missing from the burden: the richest; where you can buy a bag for 14 million forints, you can buy sports shoes for the child for 2 million forints. [[Bence Rétvári: Shoes! Nacsa Lőrinc: Cobbler's Shoes!]] And they're walking around with 20 million forints an hour. The richest one hundred and six37 billion forints increased his wealth, but they're not just a hundred. I miss the oligarchs, the casino guys, the artificially created national capital class. National? Well, then, gentlemen, the country is in trouble, they ask you to come to the register, pay the rich. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Like Rakosi! Bence Rétvári: Rákosi!]] What hurts the most is that your solution, the creation of these foundations, seems to be firefighting rather than a long-term idea. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] We don't have a year to survive, gentlemen. [[Nacsa Lawrence: And ladies!]] That's what we should be preparing for. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the lines of Momentum and MSZP.]]
u2022-06-08-14	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2022-06-08-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Well, good morning, Honourable Left. You have noticed that, as a result of the war and the faulty sanctions policy in Brussels, Europe is experiencing difficulties. Do you know how difficult these are? The petrol, which was 480 HUF in Hungary at the end of May, is not 480 HUF in Germany, but 818 HUF in Iceland, 825 HUF in the Netherlands, 853, in Greece 873, in Finland, 914, in Norway, 940 HUF is what is 480 in Hungary, honourable Member, and we could say that to gas oil and many other areas, honourable Members. They are beginning to notice what is actually happening in the world, the consequences of a war in our neighbourhood, and that Brussels is taking sanctions to do so, which cause much more serious damage to the European economy than Russia, which, in principle, is subject to these sanctions? When will they finally conclude that it is in Hungary's interest that the war should end as soon as possible? When do you say the word "peace" in the context of the war, not arms shipments and sanctions? [[Interviews in the ranks of the MSZP.]] but the word "peace"? When is it finally said that Hungary should not be involved in this? And when are they finally going to say that these sanctions in Brussels are hurting Europe, and they are particularly damaging to countries that are geographically closer to Russia, because it is natural that in Central Europe, from the Baltic to the Balkans, these countries suffer more from sanctions than those on the shores of the ocean, which have fewer direct links with Russia, simply because of geographical proximity. When does the Hungarian left finally think that he could do something about the national interest, Mr honourable Member, because indeed, these facts, these figures show what price increases there are all over Europe, especially here I said that there is a country where inflation is not more than 10 per cent, but it is already close to 20 per cent by the rate of inflation, whereas in Hungary we are defending the Hungarian people by the measures that you do not support. You guys are always making fun of the reduction in the rent, as if you wanted to sit down to end the reduction in the rent, because you said that now it's completely unsustainable. If they didn't say that ten years ago, we might even think about it. But if we put the left hand Dictionary on the word "supplier," then these are the most common indicators, which you have been saying for years to reduce the overhead: stupidity, illusions, magic, debauchery, people debauchery, alms, untenable, to be thrown into the trash, you are going to eliminate this part of yourself now, populism, in the end we are starving because of it, irresponsible action, making service providers lose money, the most need not be affected, or what Ferenc Gyurcsány said: that if the business is done, then the world will end, and there must be business. Or what Congressman Tordai has said, and many other left-wing Members have said in recent years, while here he is talking about fairness in Parliament, he says that market prices should be allowed on the Hungarian population, and then do not wash, but air their clothes, and do not heat so much, and do not use so much water. That's what you're saying to this day. In vain, more than three million people said that this policy was not supported in Hungary. And I think if you'd like to have a reception hour and ask people that you could use the rent cut, that you'd like to pay twice or three times as much electricity and gas bills, then your constituents would say, yes, it's good that they're at a lower price, and it's good that we don't have to farm the higher one, so believe me, people are on the side of the reduction. Don't attack him! How is it that we are still sitting here today, in June 2022, and you are still attacking the reduction of the rent ten years ago, while you have not even voted for VAT cuts here in Parliament? It was you who raised prices by abolishing the zero rate, raising the reduced rate from 12 to 15 per cent, raising the standard VAT rate from 20 to 25 per cent, honourable Member. In this situation, however, we will protect the Hungarian families, we will protect the reduction of the rent, we will protect the value of the pensions, and we will also protect the 13th month pension that you abolished, and we have rebuilt it. But it would be good if the Hungarian left finally woke up, if he noticed that the war and the misguided Brussels sanctions policy would be difficult for the country if we did not have such measures, if there were no measures to prevent Hungary from drifting into war, and there was no gas stop, no reduction, no food price stop and no interest stop. Without it, the Hungarian people would be in a much more difficult situation. Take a deep breath. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] take courage and support these measures for the benefit of the Hungarian people! [[Eszter Vitalos: That's right!]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-08-16	Dear Parliament, Dávid Bedő, Member of the Momentum Group, asked for a pre-meeting address on our current affairs. You have the floor.
u2022-06-08-17	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, It has been said several times from us, and I would also like to highlight it in my first speech: we, the momentists, are first in the interests of the Hungarian people, and we will support any proposal that serves the interests of the country, come from any party. It would be a shame to deny that there have been good things in the last 12 years, there have been good decisions that have supported people. [[Bence Rétvári: Name a few.]] However, there are two things that have caused the nation damage that will be difficult to repair, but it will be even more difficult to forgive. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] [[9.50]] One of the main crimes committed was the deliberate, conscious and systematic poisoning of the public speech to tear the fabric of Hungarian society to shreds. Hungarians were instigated against Hungarians, families were torn apart [[Bence Rétvári: Romantum!]] "Friends have been destroyed by continuous enemy imagery and calculated hatred; all with one single purpose out of hundreds of billions of public funds, so that you can remain in power even further, because it would be difficult to find any national interest in the destruction that has been done in the minds and souls of Hungarian people. You didn't just dig trenches, you planted mine fields among them. It's hard to predict how many years or how many decades it takes to bury them. But you didn't just destroy the soul and the mind, and with your other main crime, you hurt the Hungarian economy. The majority of the past 12 years have brought an unprecedented global economic recovery, in which Europe has soared. [[Bence Rétvári interrupts.]] The European Union's money was spilled to Hungary on a thousand billion-dollar scale, which we have received to raise the country to the level of development of the EU. This is your responsibility, and in fact with a two-thirds mandate, it would have been your historic responsibility, a responsibility that you have failed to live with partly knowingly and partly because of your incompetence. [[Bence Rétvári laughs.]] They shamelessly wasted the many decades behind us, while our regional competitors have all left us behind. [[Bence Rétvári: What? Burial of the ditch! What are you talking about?]] The EU funds should not have been spent on the gain of the so-called national capital class, on the enrichment of Mészáros, Tiborcz, Szíyi and others, but on strengthening the independence of the Hungarian economy. [[Bence Rétvári: The Strabag, you think?]] We did not receive support from the EU to feed the oligarch empire that is unable to appear on the market, but to build a strong, crisis-resistant economy. That's what we got the EU money for. [[Bence Rétvári: Katalin Cseh!]] to make sure that we no longer need EU funds. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Hologram!]] Dear members of the Government. You did not reserve, you did not think ahead, and the Hungarian people will now pay the price for this. And they can say anything, they can come up with the so-called extra profit and tax it, but make no mistake, it's part of the government restrictions they're doing right now, however Rogán Antal wants to frame it. Let's sum up: 12 years of irresponsible farming, spending money on friends, propaganda and stadiums, and now the crisis, and your response is austerity. But there is an alternative. [[Bence Rétvári: Come on, let's hear it.]] There are currently thousands of billions of people in the European Union, which belongs to Hungary. The reason why Hungarians are currently not getting this money is because you have been constantly using the resources received over the past 12 years. We want these resources to be given to the country, to the Hungarian people. But we're only gonna get these money if you guys stop robbing the country. We will receive these funds when the welfare of the Hungarian people and the rise of the country are finally more important than filling the pockets of their parasitic oligarchs. I'm afraid you've already made your decision: you'd rather choose austerity than change your policy. [[Bence Rétvári: He gave me a peace offering!]] But in case it's not too late, in case it's not too late, and you realize that bringing EU funds back is in the national interest. I know I'm not gonna get a meaningful reaction from you. They're gonna pull out the communication panel collection in front of you. [[Bence Rétvári: Because it wasn't! That wasn't lucky.]] and read out what to say now about the Momentum or about me, and not only I, but the whole country would like to know when you will be dealing with bringing EU funds home, when we will meet the anti-corruption conditions that are necessary for you to receive this money. [[Bence Rétvári: Subway 4?]] When, for example, will we join the European Public Prosecutor's Office? When will there be an indictment for a corruption case? [[Bence Rétvári: Katalin Cseh?]] Or when do we amend conflict of interest laws so that politicians and their families cannot benefit from EU funds? [[Bence Rétvári: Lex Czech! Lőrinc Nacsa: Katalin Czech!]] My fellow members of the Government. When will the EU funds for Hungarians be brought home? Thank you very much. [[Applause from Momentum, Dialogue and Jobbik.]]
u2022-06-08-18	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Mr. Csaba Latorcai, State Secretary, responds. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2022-06-08-19	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, allow me to thank you for your words of appreciation about the successful government measures you have made over the past 12 years. At the same time, it seems to have missed the fact that Hungary has produced GDP growth over the past two years. [[Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] [[Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] , which is also at the forefront of the EU Member States, and I do not know that you have heard that as a result Hungary has also preceded Portugal in its development (Bence Rétvári: That's right!) Portugal joined the European Union several years before Hungary. We also agree that European Union funds should be used as soon as possible in Hungary, among other things, because these resources are due to Hungary, Mr President. [[Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] They belong to the Hungarian economy and they belong to the Hungarian people; they are also due to the fact that the Hungarian people produced these resources, and the Hungarian economy produced these resources. We really have debates with the European Union, we have debates with Brussels, we have debates about immigration, we have debates about child protection and we have debates about the embargo. However, Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Hungarian people have taken a stand on these issues. They took a stand in the framework of the national consultation and took a position in the framework of a referendum on 3 April. And for us it is not the most important, of course it is important that these resources arrive in Hungary as soon as possible, but the most important thing is that these resources are really used for the Hungarian people and the Hungarian economy. Allow me, Congressman, a flash-forward. In 2004, when Hungary joined the European Union and the socialist government then negotiated our accession, the socialist government of that time set itself as a goal, as a prominent student, to sign the accession agreement as early as possible from among the Visegrád countries, and expressed even the incomprehensibleness of the main negotiator at that time that the Poles had opened a debate even at the last minute. And what was the result? Finally, Poland fought out much better conditions for Polish agriculture, for Polish farmers. Well, Congressman, our aim and interest is to make the most of it to the Hungarian people and the Hungarian economy. Of course, it is possible to represent foreign interests, whether they are Brussels or overseas interests, but if you are truly democrats and not just claim yourself, then the Hungarian people's point of view is first, and they have taken a clear position, Member. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-06-08-20	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mr Brenner Koloman, Jobbik Group, spoke with the title Fideszes press release. You have the floor.
u2022-06-08-21	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Hic Rhodos, hic salta! It's time. [[Bence Rétvári: Sic transit gloria mundi.]] When, after 12 years of one-party overpowering, Fidesz can show what it has not done in the last decade: in an extremely difficult period, in an extremely difficult economic and social crisis, it is finally not the economic policy it has to pursue. I would also like to state here that the Jobbik, as the right centre conservative party of our country, agrees with the special taxes in that form. [[Bence Rétvári: National People's Party, add!]] If they cannot be passed on to Hungarian citizens. Unfortunately, I have to bring up, for example, the banking tax case that Fidesz introduced earlier, where the banks, according to their own declaration, passed over more than HUF 200 billion to their own depositors. It was a concrete confession from the banks. It is therefore feared that the same will happen with some of the special taxes currently introduced, and this is dangerous. Indeed, now is the time to include the national bourgeoisie in this public burden-sharing, which is why it is very important that, yes, large companies and multinational companies have been left out of the system of special taxes, which, in recent years in abundance and in the EU source, have gained extra profit with known overpriced and other tricks, and they have indeed obtained extra profit, unlike small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. After all, it certainly doesn't matter that Viktor Orbán's father's profit rate after quarry taxation is more than 30 percent. In 2022, I believe only those who still believe in the alternative reality built in the Bermuda Triangle of the M1, the Facts, the Kossuth Radio. [[10.00]] But the time is very, very close when the deceived Hungarian citizens who have supported Fidesz until now realize that the black soup is coming. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] Once again, we very much support the need for everyone to take part in public burdens so that Hungarian families and local communities do not suffer the consequences of this crisis. That is why we find the Fidesz austerity that Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises and local governments have now been removed from the budget by your government, on the grounds that I remember Minister Mihály Varga's statement that they will consider other support for small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. According to the president of the National Association of Entrepreneurs, this will have a very, very serious inflationary impact, as small entrepreneurs who otherwise employ the vast majority of Hungarian employees and therefore are of paramount importance to the national economy of Hungary do not appear in the KSH average wage statistics, as they do not employ more than five people, but they are the only source of income for very, very low-income Hungarian citizens. And it is clear that 40 percent of Hungarian citizens do not have any savings after the abundance of resources of a decade, 60 percent of them live in uncertainty. Which means that if there's some serious and big expense, don't give it to me, God, there's a disease in the family, they've got nothing to touch other than Provident. [[Bence Rétvári: This was the commercial.]] which is then paid at compound interest. This is the Hungarian reality after a decade of resources. We believe that, yes, Hungary's small and medium-sized enterprises should have been particularly supported in the last decade as long as there was an EU resource and an abundance of money. In addition, as an immediate measure, we ask that the EPP Jobbik proposal be supported on zero-percent VAT on basic foods and that we start working together on plans for the post-gas stop period. Here is our proposal to reduce the excise duty on petrol prices and the VAT on petrol. We can't just put 800 forints of petrol on the population one moment at a time, and we totally agree on that. Let us work together for the well-being and freedom of Hungarian families and Hungarian citizens. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and Momentum.]]
u2022-06-08-22	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, Deputy Minister, wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Deputy Minister.
u2022-06-08-23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I'd like to start by saying that you said about your own party that you're a middle-right conservative party. Before I turn to the substance of your speech, allow me to argue with this. Because if you were a centre-right conservative party, you wouldn't have started on the left, you wouldn't have run on a list with Ferenc Gyurcsány and you wouldn't have supported the extreme left-wing policy of Gyurcsány. If all of this had happened that they wouldn't have done it, then maybe we wouldn't be talking about the fact that the Jobbik faction has fallen to a third. By the way, I congratulate you on your ability to remain in Parliament, because there are few Members who represented Jobbik in the previous term. As far as the substance of your speech is concerned. You once say that you support the government's crisis management measures, once you say that you support the introduction of an extra-profit tax, you agree with the taxation of certain sectors, while on a political basis you are missing named companies and people from this tax. Congressman! I'm sorry, you can't argue with that. So you say on one side that the government's policy is good in this respect, then on the other side you come with the same political instrument, which, by the way, took place on 3 April. I think the government's policy is clear. It must also be clear to everyone in the world, the Hungarian opposition, that there is a war in our neighbourhood, a prolonged war. No one knows the consequences of a prolonged war. The consequences of a prolonged war have defence costs, consequences, and economics. The economic consequences of this crisis are already felt by all European countries and are even beginning to extend to America, at least the problem or the difficulty is already the United States of America. I think that at this difficult time, the government is pursuing the same policy as it has been: it protects Hungarian people, protects the country, protects the families, protects pensioners, and, of course, protects the Hungarian economy, protects the Hungarian economy, and takes measures to make it operational, lets the country's economic growth be above 4 percent, for example, on the basis of the 2023 budget, and fully protects the achievement of the cost reduction that has been under way for ten years. The representative of your party in the European Union made it clear that if it were up to you, they would have supported the oil embargo and supported the Hungarian economy in a nuclear bomb. Unfortunately, this thinking does not prove that you are a centre-right party, but rather proves that you belong to left-wing parties, since left-wing parties faithfully follow the policy of the European Union. The European Union's policy today is a disaster in terms of prices, as it destroys families in the countries of the European Union. The exception to this is currently the only country: Hungary. The Hungarian government will be able to protect families from the rise in prices and operate the Hungarian economy, both now and in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-08-24	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Gergely Arató, MEP, DK Group, has applied for a pre-meeting address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-06-08-25	Thank you very much. Dear House, A meeting will also be held today in the European Parliament, and a very important package of proposals will be voted on, a package of proposals entitled "Fit for 55', i.e., "Ready to 55', which is not some defence or sports-related presentation [[Bence Rétvári: Lifestyle Management.]] It's a very massive environmental, climate protection package. The point is how the European Union stands ready for the challenge of climate neutrality planned for 2055. However, climate neutrality, the issue of energy use, is extremely important now because of one aspect. The Russian attack on Ukraine and the resulting energy market disruptions have clearly shown that energy dependence on Russia is unsustainable for the countries of the European Union. And do not think that this is a brand-new mantra invented in Brussels, as already in 2011 Viktor Orbán said, and even in 2018, he promised to create Hungary's energy independence from Russian gas and oil by 2022. What happened, my dear House? I'll tell you what, nothing. It is very convenient for the current government to be dependent on Russia, it is very convenient for you to have a highly opaque world of gas and petroleum business with Putin and Putin, where at times real extra-profits do not strike imaginary companies that are not too far from you. [[Bence Rétvári: Toto dog.]] [[10.10]] Where are we with energy independence, and where are we with renewables? I know, then the replying Secretary of State will tell you that all green, even super green, is terrificly well, wonderfully, only the fact is that outside your energy office, which issues appropriate production reports for your order, and is able every time to show that Hungary is a renewable-great power, there are also institutions independent of your government that report. For example, these reveal the following. In Hungary, one of the lowest renewable energy sources in the European Union, the share of truly renewable energy sources, a total of 13.9 percent, and the national energy and climate plan targets will only increase to 20 percent by 2030. I know, of course, that they're going to give us a bigger number, but they're only going to add nuclear energy as renewables, and they're going to count biomass as renewables. [[Intercoms from the benches of the governing parties: That's right...]] On the other hand, research shows that there is hardly any programme, which we spoke about yesterday, which would serve energy modernisation, and in particular there is no programme available to all families. The terms of the current programmes can be used with a significant part of themselves, in expensive renovations, but as usual, you forget those who are in the most difficult situation, who cannot put a few million forints of their share on an energy upgrade. Finally, the third element is worth mentioning: in Hungary, only about one third of municipal waste is recycled. You promise 55 percent soon, but there is no sign of this, there is no progress. In fact, half of the waste in Hungary goes to waste bins. There's another way to do this. Let me give you the example of a very kind government until the last few months. Poland in recent years [[Bence Rétvári: He's nice now!]] Twice a year, I say once again: solar power has doubled every year. By the end of the year, they will be at 12 gigawatts, which means that by 2025 they will reach the level of solar power that Hungary or the Hungarian government set for 2050. And let me be clear, 80 percent of that, I repeat, 80 percent of that means residential solar panels. It means that people get support to create their own electricity. In conclusion, I can tell you that there is no energy independence without renewable energy, and you are essentially doing nothing to make Hungary move forward in the areas of renewable energy, waste use or housing insulation. It is no coincidence that you are also violating the EU Renewable Energy Directive [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] do not comply with EU legislation which you have adopted; if you like, also in this area [[The president's ringing again.]] They're in violation of the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2022-06-08-26	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Zsófia Koncz responds to what has been said. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
u2022-06-08-27	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for your speech, and let me start by saying that the Hungarian Government is doing everything in terms of climate protection and environmental protection, not only at the level of words, but also at the level of action. It therefore adopted the Climate Protection Act in 2020, and Hungary was among the first to adopt a legal commitment to become a climate neutral country by 2050. Here are some of the main figures that can be referred to, and are very important. I would like to highlight some without the need for completeness. Domestic gross greenhouse gas emissions were 32 percent lower than 1990 levels in 2019, which is the tenth best in the EU. Our country is one of the few countries in the world that managed to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions while increasing economic performance. In 2020, the share of renewable energy in transport was 11,6 percent, which is also the sixth best result in the European Union. In Hungary, CO2 emissions per capita are also the sixth best result among EU Member States. 64 percent of Hungarian electricity production is carbon-free, and our aim is to ensure that by 2030 90% of the energy produced in Hungary is carbon-free. The question of waste has come up here. There is a significant increase in recycled waste. In 2010, the recycling rate was 31 per cent and by 2023 it was more than double, 63 per cent. We've been talking about residential buildings. Between 2010-14, we paid HUF 50 billion to improve the energy efficiency of residential buildings, making energy efficiency investments in the homes of more than 235 thousand families. Within the framework of the "Home Gay" programme, the public energy efficiency investment between 10-20 HUF 70 billion was made and the support of residential solar and heating systems was announced in 2021. The climate and nature conservation action plan was also published in 2020. This has several objectives, for example, to free the country from illegal waste. Let's clear the country. In total, almost 122 thousand tonnes of illegal waste were removed under the programme. After each newborn, we planted ten trees, and our goal is to reach 27 percent of the country's forested areas by 2030. There's solar power, solar power. In this respect, we have stated that in the next ten years we will be multiplying the capacity of solar power plants. We are making very good progress in this area, since we currently have built-in solar capacity of nearly 3000 megawatts. We support the appearance of cheap electric cars, we have already supported the purchase of 7500 electric cars. Under the Green Bus programme, we promote the placing on the market of electric buses in cities over 25,000 people. We've put in the green government bond and the green CHEK loan. With regard to renewable energy sources, the EU's expectations for 2020 have already been achieved in 2011 and nuclear energy plays a very important role in terms of renewable energy sources. The increase in solar energy is shown by a 54 per cent increase in the amount of electricity produced by solar power plants in 2021. I consider it very important that these measures are also characterised by local actions and national and local measures and actions. For example, Hungary's largest and most popular waste collection event, the TeSzedd! The wasteRadar application has been introduced; however, there are also numerous local tree planting operations and actions within the country to clean our rivers and lakes. I myself have participated in a number of such programmes, and I think that our shared responsibility is to deliver them to future generations while preserving our national and natural resources. In this we also ask for support from the opposition. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-06-08-28	I thank the Secretary of State for her reply. Dear Parliament, Imre Vejkey, Member of the KDNP Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech:. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-06-08-29	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The period since the elections on 3 April 2022 has been extremely busy, not only at home but also at the centre of the European Union. Brussels has taken out the staff and wants to prove that he is not just a waterhead at the head of the bureaucratic organization, but that his decisions are very important and he is also able to punish those who do not blindly identify with his policy. That is why I mentioned the 3rd of April; because since Fidesz-KDNP won another two-thirds election, several leaders in Brussels expressed their regret and shock because the Hungarians have once again chosen a Christian-Conservative government, one that is relentlessly in favour of Hungarian national interests. [[10.20]] The leaders in Brussels took the result of the democratic Hungarian elections as an insult, because they wanted to see a smooth left-wing government in Budapest. In view of this, it is not surprising that the rule of law procedure already in place by Brussels before the elections has already been established in the light of the results of the elections. Brussels says that those who do not stand blindly behind Brussels decisions will be deprived of EU funds. This intimidation is not only for Hungary, but for some Member States, so that in the future no one will dare to think about going against the will of Brussels. Ladies and Gentlemen, We believe in peaceful solutions, so we are open to dialogue with anyone, but we reject double standards and stigma. And because we are members of the Union, we are therefore thinking, on the basis of reciprocity, of solutions that enable the Union and Hungarian national interests to be brought into line. However, we reject any unilateral Brussels initiative which is detrimental to Hungary. We also reject Brussels forcing us to take decisions that are unfair and harmful to our country, or that serve to discriminate against Hungarians. This rejected line also includes the issue of the general oil embargo as part of the 6th sanction package against Russia and the banning of church leaders. With the decision originally taken by Brussels, the economies of several EU Member States would have been in an impossible situation because there is simply no alternative available instead of Russian oil. Remember, it takes years and billions of serious euros to banish Russian oil from Europe, and at that time we have not yet discussed how Brussels would have its costs paid to EU citizens, in particular to Hungarians. Therefore, I consider it a huge achievement that the Hungarian government, not allowing pressure from Brussels, did not give in to extortion, stood up for its principles and interests, and thus concluded an agreement to protect the Hungarian economy and the Hungarian debt reduction, and, by standing up for the Patriarch Kirill, it also succeeded in stopping the Orthodox Christian head of the church from becoming a scapegoat. The fact is that there is a need for a common EU position on the Russian-Ukrainian war, but at the same time it must remain between the rule of law and common sense. It is absurd that the Brusselsers treat Hungary as a black sheep because we speak out for our national interests in the forums at our disposal and because we stand up in the Hungarian Fundamental Law as well as in the interests of religious freedom declared in international treaties. Recently, the Hungarian Left and its EU principle friends have ventured to talk about the need to deprive Hungary of its rights under the EU Treaty. These people want to repel and lecture Hungary on the rule of law. The horse's foot hangs out, and from behind the horse's foot it becomes clear that in the eyes of the frustrated balliberal elite today Hungary and the Hungarian people are like the annoying fairy-tale goose boy who disrespects the arrogant lord, whom the lord and his men want to teach a lesson. Ladies and Gentlemen, Remember, the St. Stephen's heritage could not be destroyed by force, because our state-founding holy king united the Hungarian and the Christian here, in the Danube Basin, created a church where the gates of hell cannot be strong. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-08-30	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, responds. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2022-06-08-31	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Deputy Chief of Staff, First of all, let us quickly state at the outset that Hungary is interested in taking into account the international circumstances, particularly the current challenges, in order for the European Union to be strong and united. The question here is, of course, what you mean by a strong European Union and how you see the possibility of creating a strong European Union, because we do not agree with the concept of creating a European united states. We consider this to be an extreme, flawed concept that weakens Europe and the nations of Europe. We believe that the European Union can be strong, that it can be strong if the Member States that make up it, the nations that make up it, are strong. A nation, a Member State, can be strong if it adheres to its traditions, its national values, its cultural, religious and historical heritage. If this bond is weakened, and unfortunately, in Brussels, there have been rather strong attempts to do so in recent years, then the Member States, the nations, will be weakened, and the European Union will also be weakened. This is the first point of debate between Brussels and the Hungarian Government on how the European Union can be strong. According to Brussels, European united states must be created, and we believe that a strong European Union is based on strong Member States. The second point of discussion is due to what you kindly mentioned, that in Hungary there is a conservative right-wing government based on Christian Democrat foundations, which now has a relatively long time, which is also a successful government. The government is successful, the country is successful. This is not just a political statement, but it is supported by numbers. In order to highlight only one of these after the pandemic, while the global economy has constantly shown downhill, the record of how many people in Hungary have jobs or the record of economic growth has fallen, or the export record has fallen, or the investment record has been broken. Hungary is therefore successful, and we have achieved this with a conservative, Christian democratic, right-wing policy. Now, the international liberal mainstream represented by Brussels, or also in Brussels, simply cannot accept it, cannot digest it. This is the result of a significant part of the debate. It is also obvious that, after a clear, very difficult decision was taken by voters in Hungary on the future of the country and on the assessment of the government performance so far, when records are created in terms of support, no party or party association has ever received as many votes in Hungary as we, Fidesz and KDNP on 3 April, there have never been so many parliamentary representatives in the history of democratic Hungary as we have, then two days after the election, they will initiate the rule of law procedure. It is well said, Congressman, that if there is a horse's foot in a figurative sense, it is now quite strongly visible. I think the third basis for this is who means democracy. We here in Hungary, by democracy, mean that government work must comply with the people's will. All power belongs to the people, as we have heard. Compared to this, in Brussels, democracy is defined as democracy if liberals govern and if liberals are not elected in a country, if left-wings are not elected for governance, Brussels will immediately classify that country, that political system, that political structure as non-democratic. Finally, a few words about EU funds, if I may. Indeed, you are right, Congressman, EU funds belong to us. EU funds do not come out of the sky, and then they come out of the sky, and then they do, or they just do, but they have to be produced and produced from the work of European people; European Union funds are created from the work of European people, including Hungarians. So these resources are also due to us Hungarians. It is an amazing scandal, and I think that Brussels is holding back the resources that we have, while there is a refugee crisis in the European Union, and a significant part of that burden is on us, and while there is an energy crisis in the European Union, which has a great burden on us, they want to put on our shoulders. So, honourable Member, the debates will remain in the future. A successful debate requires a certain majority in Parliament, but this has been provided by voters. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-08-32	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mr Barna Pál Zsigmond, Member of the Fidesz Group, spoke with the title of our current affairs. You have the floor, Congressman. [[10.30]]
u2022-06-08-33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, This year, Pentecost was one day when the whole Christian world celebrates the flood of the Holy Spirit and the day of national union. Year after year, on the anniversary of the Trianon peace dictatorship, on 4 June, in addition to the feeling of deepest mourning, we proclaim the Hungarian nation's belonging together. We thank God for keeping us Hungarians despite the darkest historical tragedies. The implementation of 12 years of national policy after 2010 is also a great achievement, measured on a historical scale. Today there are more than one million new Hungarian citizens, and the Hungarian nation is more united than ever in the last hundred years. In recent years, the virus has been isolated for a while, but today we can hope that together we have overcome the invisible enemy, and, despite the terrible war going on next door, a few days ago, Csíksomlyó once again lit the flame of hope in the Carpathian Basin. Ladies and gentlemen, By the way, June 4th, a number of public figures who, if not at any other time, would have done better to listen wisely. And think of the Hungarians who, thanks to Trianon, live better today in Romania, Slovakia and other neighbouring countries than we do in Hungary. By Péter Niedermüller, the DK mayor of Erzsébetváros wrote in the social media. There's nothing new under the sun, that's all a skater politician can afford on his anniversary. What if it's not the worst attack on our national self-esteem? Of course, we are not surprised by this, the anti-nationalism on the left is almost a tradition. The statement is also outrageous because in Slovakia the Beneš Decrees, which are still in effect in the state of disenfranchisement of Hungarians in the Highlands, still do not guarantee the free use of mother tongue in the official affairs of Romania, the authorities are illegally closing a Hungarian school, and the Hungarians in Transcarpathia are leaving behind the work of their lives, saving their lives in fear. In addition to the legal and spiritual dimensions, Niedermüller's claim is not supported by the economic and earnings data of the regions inhabited by the Hungarians, because the development of the regions inhabited by Hungarians is often hampered by the successor states, and those who cross the border know the movement: the worst is always the state of the roads where the Hungarians live. What Peter Niedermüller was able to say, not even János Kádár or Károly Grósz dared to say, because villainy has degrees. Ladies and gentlemen, The left campaigned against our fellow nations across the border during the referendum on 5 December 2004, and today DK's youth department, Momentum, has taken this ideology so vertebrately that it chooses its own anti-Hungarian brothers and sisters in the neighbouring countries and supports their candidates against the Hungarians. Of course, not only politicians, but historians are able to make shocking statements about Trianon. The article by historian Gábor Gyáni, in which he discussed the beneficial effects of the country's mutilation on the columns of Life and Literature, is directly gastric. In his mind, the loss of the less developed areas freed the country from ballast. He joined the line that really started with Péter Medgyessy, who toasted with the Romanian Prime Minister on the anniversary of the connection of Transylvania, and continued to include Transylvanian Hungarians in 23 million Romanians with László Kovács and the, dare to be small! Ferenc Gyurcsány. Today's Left continues the ideology of the socialist system, as the national feeling was one of the major enemies of socialist internationalism. Their tellers have made us a sinful nation, so they think we deserve the Trianon tragedy. They were not thinking in the nation, but in classes and internationalism, and, as these examples show, they are thinking to this day. Ladies and gentlemen, Luckily, we, politicians with national commitments, are the majority of Hungarian people, we, throughout the Carpathian Basin, in whom our country, our nation, will to live indestructible and unwavering determination, commitment. This spirit has kept our nation for centuries. Besides today, we are fighting against the globalist road roller, the Gyurcsány national traitor ideology. However, the result of the 3 April election showed what the Hungarian nation chooses, which way it wants to go. On April 3, we chose development, national growth, and said no to the anti-national left. Finally, I wish Hungary, the Hungarian nation and ourselves another prosperous thousand years. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-06-08-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, responds. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2022-06-08-35	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Deputy Chief of Staff, All Hungarians with good feelings probably agree that Péter Niedermüller's opinion quoted by you is very tasteless and shameful. However, we probably agree that there is nothing unusual about this. There is nothing unusual about it, because the Hungarian left has unfortunately become notorious in recent years about the continuous incitement of hatred against Hungarian communities across the border, and they have constantly taken steps to eliminate Hungarians living across the border from the important decisions that have determined the future of the nation as a whole. And unfortunately, when the left was governed, the opposition of the Hungarians to the Hungarians was a political approach conducted in a sporting way. To the contrary, we think on the right that all Hungarians are responsible for all Hungarians. We think it is right for all Hungarians to participate in decision-making on the most important issues affecting the future of the nation, and we have made it clear to those across the border that they can always count on the mother country, as it has been shown many times in recent years and decades, that the mother country has always been able to count on Hungarian communities across the border. We also see the correctness of this national policy in the outcome of the parliamentary elections on 3 April, when not only the party alliance of Fidesz and KDNP received a record number of votes, but also the Hungarians living across the border also cast a record number of votes. The 318 083 votes that came from across the border are virtually double the votes cast in 2014, and the valid vote of more than 267 thousand is more than twice as much as eight years ago. Thank you to Hungarians across the border for participating in a very important decision on the future of the nation, thank you to all those who helped Hungarians across the border to exercise their rights under the law. [[Gergely Harvestó: Whichever...]] Out of this 318 thousand votes, 94 percent of the valid votes were cast on the Fidesz and KDNP party alliance, which was 254 468 votes. This is partly, certainly, one of the reasons for the hatred of the left, but it can also be said to be the result. I don't want to give advice to the left for a number of reasons, of course, but if they provoked less people across the border, if they caused less hatred against those across the border, they might get a little more support, some of their parties could target up to 1.4 percent in the next election instead of 1 percent. We believe that in politics relating to national communities across borders, we should not tell Budapest what is good for Hungarians across borders, but we should ask communities across borders, and they should tell us what is needed. As a result of this political approach, we gave a total of HUF 200 billion of funding to more than 60 thousand Hungarian-inhabited businesses, who then invested HUF 400 billion in Hungarian-inhabited areas across borders, creating thousands of new jobs. In the spirit of this political approach, we have rebuilt 900 kindergartens and kindergartens in the last government cycle, allowing 300,000 Hungarian children access to quality mother tongue education, and so we have taken further steps to give every child the opportunity to learn Hungarian. In the spirit of this political approach, we have renovated 1,600 churches, parishes, parishes, church houses, and in the spirit of this political approach we have given significant support to sports associations operating across the border. [[10.40]] Don't forget, one of the best means of keeping the nation's identity and identity is sports. I think that the heart of every good Hungarian was warmed by the fact that Sepsi OSK's team won the Romanian Cup, or when the team of Miercurea Ciuc U19 won everything, championship, cup and supercup in Romania. The subsidies are thus well placed, and the subsidies help to strengthen the Hungarian national communities. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Happy birthday to the Hungarians living beyond the border. As long as we govern, you can count on the Hungarian government. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-08-36	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Dear Parliament, A joint debate on the resolution of the consequences of the armed conflict in neighbouring countries and of the humanitarian disaster in Hungary follows in an exceptional procedure. [[Several Members leave the room. Noise.]] Dear Parliament, First, a speech will be made by the author. Before I give the floor to the Minister, I would like to inform you that there is a total time frame of 25 minutes for your opening speech, your further speech in the debate and your possible closing statement. [[Move. It's ringing.]] I give the floor to Minister for Justice Judit Varga and ask my fellow Members to take their seats. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
u2022-06-08-37	Dear Parliament, It's pointless to say I'm doing the best I can. Because you have to do what the situation requires. These are the words of Winston Churchill, which ring from the perspective of several lifetimes today. Ladies and gentlemen, The government's attitude in the event of an emergency will always follow the principle cited above and will always follow this principle. The current situation is well known to everyone. In the eastern neighbourhood of Hungary, Ukraine, there is a war, from which Hungary, the Hungarian people, must stay out. At the same time, we should also consider that this armed conflict, due to its proximity, its humanitarian and economic impact, is clearly affecting our country as well. Therefore, in order not to suffer the consequences of the war by the Hungarian people and not by the Hungarian families, the government sees it necessary to take immediate action, because this is what the situation currently requires. Therefore, the Government of Hungary has issued an emergency with its powers under the Fundamental Law in view of the armed conflict in Ukraine and the resulting humanitarian disaster and with a view to averting its economic consequences within the borders of Hungary, on 25 May 2022. As a result of the prolonged war, dealing with the economic crisis threatening Europe requires that the government, in close cooperation with you, Parliament, can take the necessary measures to protect the livelihood and security of the Hungarian people in the coming months, as well as guaranteeing the help and continued support of people fleeing from war to our country. It is a well-known fact, ladies and gentlemen, that Hungary has taken the most refugees from Ukraine in proportion to the population of the Member States of the European Union; thank the Hungarian people for it. Many of our brothers in Transcarpathia were forced to flee, and our compassion for their fate may now be even stronger because of the closeness of the day of national integration. Dear House, The Russian-Ukrainian war in our neighbourhood has resulted in a humanitarian situation that has not been experienced since World War II and has also changed European economic prospects. To deal with the humanitarian disaster and to prevent the negative effects of international economic change, our country must ensure that effective and rapid, immediate national responses are developed. Therefore, in order to provide all the necessary means to help, support, help people fleeing from armed conflict, housing, education, work and to ensure that Hungary leaves behind the harmful economic consequences of the war as soon as possible, the Government is proposing to extend the scope of its regulations under the special legal order. The bill on the House's table is technically designed to create a mandate based on Article 53 (3) of the Fundamental Law, as a result of which the Government will maintain the scope of its regulations in the special legal order until the expiry of this bill. In this context, it is therefore very forward-looking to maintain the government's emergency measures legally until 1 November 2022. It is also important to stress that in the present situation, the Hungarian Government has a constitutional obligation to declare an emergency and to take the necessary measures. We are also working to keep the lives of the citizens of our country normal, despite the economic crisis caused by the war in the neighbourhood and the sanctions that have been imposed on the war situation, which have often been wronged by sanctions. We are also working to ensure economic growth, an increase in living standards, while maintaining full employment. In short, we are working to protect Hungarian families, pensions, jobs, reduction of rent and our family support system in Europe of a unique size. It should also be pointed out that, in the area of economic measures in the event of an emergency, the government will always follow the principles of gradualness, necessity, proportionality and commitment. We are monitoring the economic events of Europe and the world, the sanctions imposed during the war, their possible effects on Hungarian people and Hungarian families, the Hungarian economy, and we are trying to ensure that the expected economic downturn affects our country as little as possible. The government's firm position is that the price of war should not be paid by Hungarian families. Instead, we believe that the economic burdens should be taken into account by large companies that have gained extra profit in a changed world economy environment. On 3 April, the Hungarian people gave us an unprecedentedly strong, historical mandate, and we will always and always act in the primary interest of the national interest. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, After the world's coronal virus pandemic, Europe faces the consequences of a war, a war that no one can see the end of. The government's aim in this extremely difficult situation is to preserve the physical and financial security of Hungary, Hungary and the Hungarian families. In order for the government to be able to take all the necessary measures in due time, it is essential to adopt the bill before us, since only in this case will the government be able to maintain or take appropriate economic and humanitarian measures. Please allow me to explain very briefly the main lines of the bill under discussion, since, by adopting it, this House ultimately decides that measures relating to the export of agricultural products of strategic importance for the security of feed and food supply can remain, can be taken, or can be maintained, measures relating to electricity, gas supply or district heating, and measures relating to security of energy supply. It also decides that public prices can be maintained, whether the expansion of the use of the Széchenyi Recreation Card, its use in stores, and, among other things, whether or not we can provide adequate humanitarian measures to those fleeing Ukraine. Dear House, The government's primary goal, as it has done so far, is to protect Hungarian people, reduce economic damage and preserve jobs. Over the past two years, the control of the Crown Virus pandemic has proved that the exceptional and temporary legal framework previously adopted has served these objectives well. With this bill, effective and rapid government decision-making can be ensured in order to provide a flexible and timely response to the difficulties caused by the war. I stress that the government is not asking Parliament for unlimited authority. The time limit set out in the bill under discussion and the obligation to provide information declaring public policy liability to Parliament clearly ensure that parliamentary control is enforced. [[10.50]] The proposal submitted is therefore necessary, but is consolidated, proportionate and does not exceed what can be expected, but gives the government the opportunity to take continuous, rapid and effective action. I would also like to point out that the government's obligation under the Fundamental Law is also to initiate, if the war and the global economic situation allow, the removal of the emergency before the expiry of the proposal submitted. Dear fellow Members, There must be common affairs that are above political interests and debates, there must be matters in which the nation and its representative forces are united. I believe that the protection of the safety, livelihood and workplace of Hungarian people and the help of those in trouble who are fleeing the war in Hungary can be regarded as such a common national issue. I would like to quote here the thoughts of Prime Minister following his oath that the infighting and strife are the luxury of a happy time. This isn't the kind of time we're living in. At a time of trouble, it's a duty to join forces. Orders. I therefore respectfully ask my fellow Members to put aside everyday political battles and to support the bill, regardless of party standing. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-08-38	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the Minister that there is a total period of 15 minutes for her further comments in the debate and for her closing statement. [[Dr. Judit Varga: Thank you very much.]] Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented. I give the floor to Mrs Elias Boglarka, rapporteur for the Legislative Committee. Here you go.
u2022-06-08-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, During yesterday's meeting on Tuesday, 7 June at 6 p.m., at 10 a.m., the Legislative Committee discussed the T/167 on the resolution of the consequences of the armed conflict and humanitarian disaster in Hungary in the neighbouring country. Bill No. 1. The Legislative Committee adopted the bill negotiated under the exceptional procedure by 27 votes in favour, 8 votes against and no abstentions. The questions raised at the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Secretary of State, acting on behalf of the Government, I believe, have been fully answered and have now been partially addressed by Minister in her exposé. These issues discussed government regulations, which are repeatedly proposed by this bill, and specifically mentioned that, while there were 150 measures previously required to be laid down within the legal framework, there are now fewer than 40 measures, regulations, which are inevitable and indispensable for the government's effective and swift decision-making in the next period. Why is that essential? Because the bill before us provides nothing less than an extension of the special legal order, which continues to give us the opportunity to deal effectively with the humanitarian disaster caused by our neighbour and by the prolonged war, and to prevent the negative effects of international economic change quickly and effectively, since the unpredictable development of the war and the unforeseen end of the war will result in an uncertain situation in which we must be prepared to make immediate and rapid decisions. With or without seeing the end, the proposal submitted makes it clear that the government can maintain its emergency measures until 1 November 2022. It also makes it possible for Parliament to ensure continuous parliamentary control, as the obligation to provide information exists during this period or until that date. Madam Minister, in your exposé, you have described in detail the need for a draft law, so allow me to present some of the important data of the recent past, which, I believe, is essential. More than 700,000 refugees have come to Hungary so far. There are currently about 250 thousand Ukrainian refugees in our country, with more than 23,000 asylum seekers and 120 thousand temporary residence permits. The number of people entering Hungary is around 10,000 a day, and we do not yet see the end of the war. The Hungarian government, in cooperation with the relief organisations, will continue to provide for refugees with the assistance of civil society organisations. I would also like to express my thanks and thanks to the thousands of volunteers who are helping this work every day. As the Minister said, Hungary took in most of the refugees of the Member States of the European Union in proportion to the population, so we took in most of the refugees. Thank you to all Hungarians who always prove that we Hungarians can always be expected, especially in times of difficulty, especially when there is trouble, and it is important that all neighbouring countries, living in all neighbouring Member States, know that we want to continue to maintain this. Unfortunately, the obvious majority of my fellow opposition Members are an exception to this rule, but I trust that by adopting this bill they will also come to the aid of their country and refugees. Since the war started, the government has been pushing for peace with all possible means, while it has helped refugees arriving in our country with a number of measures. Allow me to list a few without the need for completeness. Hungary has sent more than 1900 tonnes of food and medical equipment to Transcarpathia and to central and eastern Ukraine. Since the outbreak of the war, MÁV has issued a total of 410 thousand solidarity tickets to refugees. In cooperation with relief organizations, we established points of assistance at the border, in Zahony, Beregsurány, Lónya, Barabás and Tiszabecsen. The Ukrainian soldiers wounded during the war, as well as children, will also be able to be cured in Hungary. Students from Ukraine can continue their studies in Hungary, there is a humanitarian transit point in the BOK Hall, and the government provides support to employers who employ Ukrainian citizens who come as refugees. Overall, Hungary has already spent more than HUF 40 billion on providing refugees. (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Dear House, It is a well-known fact that the protection and security of Hungarian people and Hungarian families is the first for the government, as has been the case so far. This is also the purpose of the establishment of the Rezsefence Fund and the introduction of the Defence Fund. We can see that this proposal creates conditions to ensure peaceful, predictable everyday life in our country in this difficult situation. I would like to stress that thanks to the reduction of the rent, Hungarian households saved a total of HUF 2600 billion from the introduction of the measure until 2021, one household could spend HUF 627 thousand for other purposes such as education, health, transport and entertainment. With the petrol stop introduced last November, Hungarian people using the car on average can save an average of 13 thousand forints per month. It is also important to remember that this has not always been the case, because before 2010, during the governments led by Ferenc Gyurcsány, the price of gas is three times higher than the price of gas. [[Gergely Harvesto: We're finally here!]] And the price of electricity was doubled. It is also important to stress that it is also important to recall that the left would have abolished the reduction of the rent from the beginning, before the election and now, after the election, without learning from the results, dancing on the whistle of the Brussels bureaucrats if they could, demanding the introduction of energy sanctions, and talking about joining the oil embargo today, and people using less gas, using less electricity, driving smaller cars and taking less baths. Yes, my fellow Members, your candidate for Prime Minister, has said this, and you have not separated from it, and you have supported it after that. Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz Group is in favour of peace, and we will not allow the price of war to be paid by Hungarian families. About 80 percent of Hungarians support the government in setting up separate taxes for companies that have acquired extra profit. [[11.00]] It is therefore necessary to create the conditions for the participation of large multinationals in the economic burden of extra profit in a changing world economy environment. Dear Parliament, It is clear from what has been said in his speech and from what I have said and from the decision of the committee meeting that the proposal submitted serves to protect the safety, livelihood and jobs of Hungarian people, while also bearing in mind the help of people fleeing from armed conflict. We therefore propose to support the bill before us. Please, all of us, do so. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-08-40	Thank you, Congresswoman Elias Boglarka. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 30-30 minutes, and the independent Members have 8 minutes in total. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Congresswoman Boglárka Elijah, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. [[Gergely Harvesto: Same again, there is no need to vary much. Make sure the Gyurcsány government is involved.]] Congressman Harvester will be given the floor later.
u2022-06-08-41	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to add a very important point to what has been said and, through this, to emphasise what I have just said and to what I have referred to the Minister. We consider it very important, and the Fidesz Group considers it very important that we are on the side of peace. From the beginning, we have said and supported peace as soon as possible, and that is why we want to fight and that is why we want to do everything we can. At the same time, of course, we also consider it essential that the price of war should not be paid by Hungarian families. It is therefore very important that, with the consequences of the prolonged war, the energy crisis that is emerging, the energy crisis that is spreading to Hungary and the economic crisis that threatens us, we can do everything as quickly and effectively as possible. To this end, we wish to give the government authority. We, the Members of the Fidesz Group, have all sworn to serve and serve the interests of the Hungarian people and the country, their social and economic development with all our strength. I ask my fellow opposition Members not to hate their political opponents more than they love their country. That is why I ask you to help and support this government. If this decision has not been taken in the crisis caused by the Crown Virus, I suggest and ask that it be corrected now, because in this war situation, as the Minister has said, solidarity is all the more important. So I would like to ask you with respect that all of us support the bill that has been tabled, and that we continue the debate in the next time, and that your comments be drafted accordingly. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-08-42	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Elias Boglarka. I give the floor to the lead speaker of the DK Group, Mr Gergely Arató.
u2022-06-08-43	Thank you very much. Very wisely someone wrote on Facebook on the Internet that Hungary's state form is an emergency. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, this kind of debate is now a regular rite of passage in Parliament, we get together every four to six months, sometimes every three months, as it happens, the government comes here and asks for a mandate to govern without Parliament. There's always a reason where the virus is, where it's different. First there was the emergency of immigration, then there was the emergency of the virus, now the emergency of the Ukrainian war. It is very interesting, you are fighting for peace as successfully as we have just heard, that as a result of this peace struggle, Hungary is the only country in which an extraordinary legal order must be introduced in the European Union on the grounds of the war in the neighbourhood, which you do not call its name, but in fact, it is Russia's aggression against Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, This debate has also been held during this period, when you have created a constitutional mandate to request emergency authorisation on a different basis and to request an exemption from normal, democratic, legal operation. The reason for this is the war next door. We discussed this with Congressman Simicskó the other day. Somehow, there was no need to introduce an extraordinary legal order when there was a war in Yugoslavia next door. Now, the only way this government can manage this is if it can make decisions by circumventing Parliament, rewriting the laws, bypassing the laws. Because we usually forget that, but here the government is authorized to derogate from the laws adopted, which the President of the Republic has formally negotiated, which have been published. You are asking for authorisation, you are asking for authorization to derogate from the normal laws adopted by the government, and that these regulations should, in principle, remain until the end of the emergency, in practice, with further extensions, with the newer and newer salad laws in force until the end of time, or as long as you wish. The fact is that I respect the honourable Member's enthusiasm for this bill, even though she clearly did not realize that Fidesz's lying election campaign had ended, and she repeated the same lies she repeated in the election campaign. So, I admire your enthusiasm because you know what this bill is about? That the government doesn't trust you either. That now he doesn't trust the brave 135, even though you have done everything you have to do, voted for everything you had to do without asking. They voted in favour of urgency now, while the government, at the time of the amendment of the Constitution and when it made its own decree, obviously knew how to use this law, but by chance, they arrived at the legislative work this Saturday evening to draw up the text of the bill; or Friday night. So, you really do everything, you vote for everything, you don't ask, you don't argue, but the great leader's idea is that if Parliament doesn't interfere, the sure thing is that if you don't have to argue about anything here, the sure thing is that you don't have to worry about the votes in Parliament. The thing is, this bill is basically about, like your predecessors said, democracy is uncomfortable with the Fidesz government, and how do I put it? It is also a highly managed and centralised democracy, which still operates in Hungary. I would like to bypass this, and they would like to take into account as few elements of this as possible, and ask for an exemption from virtually everything. I would add that they always state the guarantee rules, that Parliament can withdraw them and go to the Constitutional Court, which is somehow not available. They had time to make the referendum impossible, otherwise with rather specific arguments, overwriting the Curia's decision, but they never happen to have time to deal with, say, a government decree prohibiting teachers' right to strike. Somehow they didn't have time for this. By the way, I was wondering if you'd be brave enough to leave it in this bill. Well, they were brave enough. They left in it that the government would report regularly to the Parliament on its emergency measures. I report, in the last six months, during the previous emergency, the government reported zero times. This was not the case at the time of the first emergency, I would add, then we were able to enjoy the production reports of Mr Szijjártó here in Parliament on a regular basis. However, in the last six months, this was no longer considered important, while there was an emergency, measures were taken. I was waiting to see if the government would leave yesterday before the agenda or today, where the government would report on the current emergency, but it wasn't, unfortunately we couldn't find time to do that, perhaps because the opposition could respond. It was so much more pleasant that a pro-government representative asked him in a friendly manner, and here they complimented each other and were very happy for each other. This can be a pleasant experience, by the way, but it does not serve the democratic control of the government. [[11.10]] So, I have to say, basically, they're still asking for uncontrolled overpower, and there's no reason for that. The measures that have been taken could have been taken in a normal government regulation or in normal parliamentary decision-making here in Parliament. In fact, then we will get to why you do need this law with two thirds and other available power tools, with your own homemade, separate Constitutional Court, and I could continue. Because the problem is that a significant part of your economic measures cannot withstand Parliament's debate. You squeeze me, take me away, raise taxes, not protect the Hungarian families, but rob them, and it is very unpleasant for you to talk about it, to argue about it, that is what this bill is really giving you the opportunity to do. It is no coincidence that if we look at the regulations that are being kept alive, less than half of which are actually related to the war next door, most of them are the government decree adopted before the Russian attack on Ukraine, which increases the government's economic space, allowing you to make your own decisions. In summary, I can therefore say that I see it differently from the Minister. You have also abused the mandate so far, and have also used the mandate to reduce democratic control, fill the pockets of the oligarchs and distribute the various funds, to take economic measures without control. We therefore do not support the new mandate in any way, and we see that this proposal also attempts to legislate illegal governance which is otherwise ineffective. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-08-44	Thank you very much, Congressman Gergely Arató. The KDNP group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position; first, I would like to give the floor to Mr Simicskó, Head of the Group.
u2022-06-08-45	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Madam Secretary, Dear Parliament, There is an important package of laws ahead of us, and we have actually discussed this before, namely the war and the special legal order, what a state, a responsible state, can do. Yet let me begin by reading in Matthew chapter 24: You will hear of wars, and war news will be circulating, nation against nation, and kingdom against kingdom. There is nothing new under the sun in this respect, we can see it now, although not many people thought, perhaps even no one in our neighborhood in the 21st century. There is war in the century, yet there is war, and this has its own security, security, and economic consequences. We also know, of course, that this old wise message is not necessarily so clear today, since this world is much more complicated than it was then. This is a direct war writing and teaching, we now see in many cases indirect methods, war procedures, we see various elements of hybrid warfare, we can also see various so-called proxy, or substitute wars. So this world has become much more cynical, more complicated, but the dangers and challenges are still there. Ladies and gentlemen, At a time like this, it takes especially great wisdom to make responsible decisions, let me express this with one more Bible quote. King Solomon asked God for nothing but power, not money, not weapons, but wisdom to make good decisions. I think it is very important for the government to act accordingly, and it is important to be careful, in your responsibility, in your margin of discretion, given the rapid and effective opportunity to introduce protection measures, so you can do so. And what we legislators and legislators have to do, I think, is to help the executive power in this situation, but of course we're also checking it. After all, there were numerous ministerial speeches, and there were even prime ministers' speeches, and during the Covid epidemic everyone, the country's public, was kept informed, as they were press releases and expert briefings. So it is not true that no one was informed and that the government did nothing that would have been too powerful for him and abused his power. It has provided protection, protection against the epidemic, and has been able to effectively serve the health and safety of people in this way. This is what is needed now, because perhaps we can agree with Gergely Arató if we take a brief historical look back, say, at the XIXth century. By the century, we can say that the period of becoming a nation, at least in the case of European nations, is safe to say. CHAPTER XX The centuries are a period of world wars, as two terrible world wars have devastated European peoples, and in many countries of the world we have seen the damaging effects and victims of this. CHAPTER XXI century of challenges, threats, risks and dangers. We turned on this on 11 September 2001 and, since then, we have constantly faced challenges that we must meet, and this is absolutely necessary for a rapid response. That is why it is necessary to give the government the opportunity to examine where to change, where to react in such a situation, within the framework of the rule of law, in the light of the special legal order, and obviously by the Minister of Justice and her team, how to deal with these threats effectively. Of course, special jurisdictions are changing, and I don't want to analyze it for a long time here, but it is certain that the emergency situation, the state of emergency, the emergency, the preventive defense situation, the incident of the unexpected armed attack and the case of the terrorist attack are still the six specific legal situations in force. Of these, the announcement of the preventive defense situation could have come up, which we accepted in 2004, when the general military commitment was lifted by you to leave some room for manoeuvre for the government, if Hungary were to be attacked with a gun, a war would break out. It's more like not necessarily called it the literature, but the common language would call it the hallway of war. Therefore, obviously, if we want to stay out of the war, and that is the right and wise decision, and we want to achieve peace as soon as possible, and we have always stood up for peace, but at the same time we are really doing everything we can to help the refugees who arrive here in the case of Ukrainians, Ruthenians and Hungarians fleeing from war, Hungary is actually taking on enormous tasks in the implementation of humanitarian aid. So just and exclusively, I see that the government has made the right decision, and has turned to Parliament to expand the emergency situation, including the category of the special legal situation of the emergency in the event of a humanitarian disaster, because this is not included. Therefore, the KDNP faction supports the Government's intention to extend the emergency, we support the extension of the emergency and, of course, the government's obligation to provide information is included in the legislative package, as has been the case so far, I think it will do in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me give you one more short thought, namely, modern state tasks. We all know that there is basically an important distribution task for the state, because resources need to be allocated so that all sectors can work within one country. It also has a so-called allocation task, because we are in a capitalist system after the change of regime, which, of course, may well be justified, especially in terms of globalist directions, has enough criticism, but this is not the subject of my speech to analyse and criticize globalism and the process. But it is certain that what the private sector cannot provide is such an important state task, such as scientific education, scientific research, many other things for which it needs to generate resources and provide resources to the state or government at hand. Most importantly, it is the state's task of stabilising, maintaining order and security, guaranteeing protection against external threats, and at the same time ensuring the viability of the economy, as without it I probably do not believe in the omnipotence of GDP, but it certainly represents some kind of economic growth, some kind of economic prosperity. If we can maintain economic growth, then there is an opportunity for all sectors to thrive, and employment, the protection of jobs, the maintenance of support for families, the guarantee of the safety of pensioners, and there are many, many public tasks, which are in the overall role of stabilisation. [[11.20]] The so-called caring state, which creates social security building on a social market economy, is an important objective and expresses a very important Christian Democratic and Christian social values, so that such an economic policy must be pursued, and I do not think that we should allow economic policy to be applied only through a globalist approach. There can be and there is patriotic economic policy, and I believe that this patriot economic policy is being pursued by the Fidesz-KDNP government. These two funds, which provide sufficient guarantees and security for this crisis, the economic consequences of which, to address and remedy the economic crisis caused by the war, the prolonged war, also show that the government is thinking ahead, planning ahead, it is important to establish the Rezsefédélyság Fund and it is important to establish the Defence Fund. Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, I would conclude by saying that the KDNP faction sees that we have no other option but to give the government the power to protect the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian people and the Hungarian families quickly and effectively. I would also like to point out to the Government, through the Minister, that, if possible, seeing this responsible decision-making work, we are looking at all scenarios until there is no war, until, let us say, the state of peace is established, because our fellow Member Mr.Barna Zsigmond here in front of the agenda expressed very nice thoughts about Hungarians across the border, but let us not forget that Transcarpathian Hungarians may be at risk if Ukrainian nationalist forces try to turn their anger and anger against them after the war. So it is worth considering different emergency scenarios for how we can protect them as well. Obviously, by carrying out a fair foreign policy, by otherwise helping, accepting more than 700 thousand Ukrainian refugees, we supply them, the Hungarian government has offered to supply Ukrainian soldiers, wounded and injured Ukrainian soldiers in health institutions in Hungary, so we keep making gestures, we see this problem, we see this problem, but we never know, the devil is not sleeping, so there is always a possibility of atrocity that could endanger the living conditions of Hungarians in Transcarpathia that are stranded beyond the border and could endanger their lives at all, there have been such phenomena. So, if possible, let the Hungarian government pay attention to this, too, and let us protect everyone who is under an unworthy attack. Overall, we support the proposal and wish the government good work and hard work. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-08-46	Thank you very much, Mr. Simicskó Group Leader. I now give the floor to Congressman István Hollik.
u2022-06-08-47	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Madam Secretary, Dear fellow Members, To be honest, it makes it difficult to argue if we have such a different interpretation of reality, because I see that we did not want it, but in the last five years Hungary has indeed been in an extraordinary situation, because, indeed, in 2015, Hungary was hit by an unprecedented wave of immigration. And then we didn't want it, we didn't want it to be our fault, but it came at us, just like the rest of the world, a Covid epidemic, which, by the way, most states handled by introducing an extraordinary legal order. And now we didn't want it, and we did everything we could to make sure that we didn't have a war in our neighborhood, but we did! This was the case, and our assessment of the situation in this regard is that these are all three, although we did not want them, but all three are extraordinary situations for Hungary. And if I understand correctly the speech by the left-wing representative, Mr Arató's speech, he says that these are such reasons, or, as he said, they are some sort of, but he did not say that there are details or irrelevant reasons, pisslicic reasons. [[Gergely Harvesto: I didn't say that, Congressman, don't lie.]] Mr President, I think that these situations, which have developed over the last five years, are indeed extraordinary situations, not such reasons as you have put it literally, but these are serious situations, difficult situations, they put Hungary in a difficult situation, and this must be answered. I therefore see that we do not agree with each other at the beginning of the debate, and you believe that the situation in which we are is not extraordinary, but we believe that it is, and if there is an extraordinary situation, it really requires extraordinary measures. The congressman's other argument was that, and I also quote literally that the overpower is uncontrolled. Congressman, you know that if you make such a statement, you are slipping, because Parliament is controlling you. In addition, in the past, during the Covid epidemic, you have had a fundamental criticism of the extraordinary legal order, that there is no time limit. [[Gergely Harvestó: The first time, not the fifth time!]] Now it's in there. Now this is also included, because there is a temporal effect and its temporal effect is 1 November. I therefore think that what the Minister has said that the extraordinary legal order meets all constitutional principles, necessity, proportionality, is in fact the case, so there is no uncontrolled overpower. In addition, as before, the Member can still count on the fact that the members of the government will report on the current situation in the context of the war, either the Prime Minister or the Minister's ladies and gentlemen. The third point of the left was that it was a twisted logic, but if I understand correctly that the extraordinary legal order is actually because we do not want to debate economic issues here in Parliament. Mr President, I do not know if you have missed it, but in a few weeks we will be debating the budget and tax laws here in Parliament, an extraordinary legal order here, an extraordinary legal order there. So we do not want to go around any debate at all. And the fact that you are constantly talking about austerity is likely to be a Freudian cause, because you have handled the crisis in 2008-09, and you have indeed tightened up and introduced measures, government measures that have meant real austerity for families. However, we can only support government measures, and therefore the government has also taken measures to protect families in this extraordinary situation, created by Brussels' faulty sanctions policy and by the war and the energy crisis caused by it. We will not, therefore, continue to, so far, nor will we be able to support any government measure, nor will any such government measure contain restrictions. Only left-wing governments have introduced austerity measures. And then let's look at the specifics, because if I understand correctly, you say that in the framework of the extraordinary legal order, the 37 government decrees, which are now being extended, are not justified either. Without the need for completeness, I would therefore like to read some specific ones, and everyone can decide whether they are justified in a war situation or not: to allow the use of a SZÉP card for the purchase of food; the introduction of an official price for certain basic foods between February and July; the extension of provisions on official fuel prices until 1 July; restrictions on the export of cereals from the territory of Hungary abroad; the appointment of a county, capital protection committee for the coordination of territorial humanitarian tasks of the Russian-Ukrainian war conflict; special rules on public employment and employment in the case of refugees arriving from Ukraine; the provision of the placement of a minor in the framework of nursery, kindergarten care; the establishment of regular subsistence support and related legislation; or provisions on the care of children from Ukraine accompanying them; or the establishment of a technical identifier in the case of refugee patients who do not have a Taj number, and the details laid down in this context. I think that, although I have not read them all, but these specific rules also show that the extended government regulations under the extraordinary legal order are adequate, giving a serious, normal response to this extraordinary situation. [[11.30]] So if you're talking about overpowering, behind that, all I see is party political considerations. As Minister said, if the country is in a difficult situation, then the only right political response can be cooperation. In addition, we have shown that if we can create such a cooperation, it is regrettable that the left did not participate in this earlier period, then we can also act effectively against Covid, and the government has made good use of the extraordinary mandate. And this is not what we say, it is not a political statement, but the economic facts support this, because if we look at economic data, we can see that Hungary was the first country in the European Union, whose economy was able to recover, and it was able to achieve economic performance for the first time in the period before the corona virus epidemic. Moreover, we are a small country, and this has its advantage in such a difficult situation, because the small country can act quickly, especially if the government is given the right authority, and if there is political stability, and the people have decided on 3 April, and because of this, there is political stability in Hungary today... so in Hungary there is every opportunity to preserve the results so far in this difficult situation, and in fact, as Prime Minister is used to say, we can move forward in a corner, and in this difficult situation we can move towards the important goals of the Hungarian nation, protecting and strengthening Hungarian businesses, Hungarian families and Hungarian pensioners. Overall, therefore, we will support the bill before us, because we believe that this is necessary in this extraordinary situation in order to protect Hungary. Therefore, the KDNP, as Mr Group Leader said, will support this bill. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-08-48	Thank you very much, Congressman István Hollik. I now give the floor to Mr László György Lukács, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2022-06-08-49	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I did not want to begin with this speech, but allow me to respond to István Hollik's only suggestion and point. He said that with the previous mandate Hungary, but it has to be corrected here, because the government, the government, has lived well during the coronal virus epidemic, and has started to mention the economic consequences and economic benefits and the performances of this, and has tried to justify its position on this. Congressman, it should also have been added that during this epidemic, Hungary was at the forefront of the world on a million people and was even the first to die. [[István Hollik: That's a lie!]] You're welcome to wave your head that you don't believe in it, these statistics you didn't question at the time. I'm telling you, we're talking about statistics per million people. And it would also be difficult to tell false statistics that more than 46,000 of our compatriots have now lost their lives, and 46,000 people have had to be mourned by their relatives. So when the economy is talking, let's just say, about crisis management, add that the coronal virus epidemic was actually not an economic, but a public health situation that you failed to deal with. Those are the facts. That is also a fact, and it must be added and said: Viktor Orbán is leading the country from an emergency to an emergency. The last two or three years have been nothing more than a kind of emergency and regulatory governance. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Legally!]] You continued to carry out the emergency, and in each case you turned to it. This was particularly exciting and particularly striking in recent weeks, and I think it is strange, because there have also been speeches from Fidesz, I believe that Congresswoman Elias Boglárka has told us about the facts and figures that Hungary has helped refugees from Ukraine with during the humanitarian disaster. Well, these aids, these donations, medical assistance, which came very often from municipalities, individuals, NGOs, were all born in a legal order and were all implemented in a legal order where the government did not need any authority to deal with this issue, there was enough legal order in Hungary, police authorities, disaster protection bodies, defences, civil society organisations, everyone's joint action, and it was perfectly sufficient to deal with this humanitarian disaster or the threat of a legal order in which everyone, the government, also has the executive role, the legislative role of Parliament, and no one moves to the detriment of the other, either through political communication governance or by expanding. So this also proves that the legal order that you have adopted or are about to renew cannot be justified. It is not necessary, I see, in the current situation, as we have referred back here to the previous months, the authorization you have requested and are likely to grant, since our ordinary legal order, our normal functioning, has ensured and ensured the operation of the country in the last very difficult months and very dangerous months, the protection of our country. Allow us here to thank domestic workers, law enforcement and defence workers or civil society organisations that have helped Eastern Hungary to deal with the difficult situation caused by the war. I have had the good fortune, but I do not say that I had the opportunity to go down to the border several times, and it must also be said that not only those whom I have mentioned, we owe thanks not only to them, but also to the local authorities and local government workers, who have carried the burden of work most of the time, and had to plan the day-long supply and transportation of care to those refugees in Ukraine, mostly refugees with Hungarian lips, whose care we have an obligation to provide. I think it was still not and it is still not apparent that it is justified for you to extend the current emergency and ask for an authorisation, because there is a sharp contrast to the public health epidemic and emergency that was in the first epidemic wave, when we were indeed in an unknown and unpredictable epidemic situation. Then everyone was able to stay in place and work, and in the current situation, which you call dangerous, it is also possible for Viktor Orbán to go to Italy instead of answering immediate questions. This shows the seriousness of the situation, that while the person you always respect as Chief Constable is the first to lead the troops, you are now trying to take the lead in the cheer camp and seek your own happiness in Italy. I would like to add that if we are talking about what we have managed to introduce under the name of extra-profit worker: I hope that Viktor Orbán did not travel by private plane, or if he was travelling by private plane, although the legislation is not in force now, then for his next trips, at least HUF 3900 will be paid by his oligarchs, which you want to load on the airlines, especially in the sense that these companies and people who operate these aircraft are typically from the extra profit of the businesses you provide, and there is an extra profit and enjoy life. It is also worth adding that the Prime Minister may have been able to travel with the head of the Hungarian Football Association, one of the extra-profit workers. Thus, it is particularly spicy that the Prime Minister travels with such a person, or in such a company, while in Hungary MEPs are debating the extension of the emergency situation, and in support of the seriousness of the situation, Minister, as well as the mass of other Members. But while we're here, the authority was used for what? As far as I can tell, the only thing they've tried to use the authority for is the restriction that they've announced in the last few days, and you're going to carry it through without any particular resistance. You said that in the midst of austerity, you were taking it away from large companies. In comparison, the situation, Madam Minister, is that you will, in fact, be asking for a serious contribution from small businesses and small businesses, which should not otherwise be burdened, with the increase in the public burden on simplified employment. In their view, the public burden will double. Moreover, you cannot believe in good faith that companies that are now involved in the extra-profit tax will not pass on the fees. Once again, it will affect families whose relatives have to go home from abroad regularly, as they will be paid by airlines in some way or hidden or hidden behind regulations, whether by introducing a package or any extra charge, which will be used again. In fact, the catapult you're putting into it, the modification of the specific taxes of the taxpayers, is also affecting this direction. You're actually taking it away from the smallest people not from large companies, but from passing it on, and you're asking for a contribution. And I must grieve you that if you believe that the price of war will be paid to large companies, then the price of war will be paid by epho, i.e. simplified employment, reducing the kata, ticket tax to be passed on, fees increases and other burdens on insurance and banking products to the population, in essence, will be paid by the families. [[11.40]] So it will be exactly that, the opposite of what you're planning, in fact, the cost of war will be paid to the families, and even if you try to say otherwise, families will feel it. But if you really want to help families during the war, then allow me to recommend one of the fastest and most effective, of course, if state control is sidelined, one of the most effective means, and this is the VAT reduction. One of the options to overcome the burden of inflation in the coming months is that Jobbik proposes a radical reduction of the highest 27 percent VAT on basic foods, especially fruit and vegetables, in the summer months. Jobbik, as a conservative right-wing party, believes that people can leave that money in their pockets, and that money in their pockets is better than, by the way, raising your pockets in VAT revenues. Money left in people's pockets and people's pockets helps their personal decisions much better and helps them get along better. In the long term, the social card can provide a solution, i.e. for people who are typically low-income; they can save and receive help that can systematically help them in the long term, beyond the temporary effects of VAT reductions. As a reminder, according to KSH, food prices have increased by 18.6 percent over the last year, and based on the recent announcement, inflation in Hungary is also two-digit based on the statistics shown by the HCSO. It is therefore clear, ladies and gentlemen, that what you are asking for, this kind of authorisation is not necessary; rather than in the exceptional legal order, it can also be ensured that a large part of the measures are taken in the ordinary legal order. You said that my fellow Member, Mr Hollik, may have mentioned on which issues the opposition does not consider appropriate to maintain the mandate. The fact is, my fellow Member, that, instead of adopting a regulation, exceptions that really justify it can be retained in legislation. But then tell us what is justified and this has now been excluded from the list that the public interest data request still has a 45-day deadline, which can be extended by 45 days. Then I will also say this to my fellow Member Nacsa: we often argue with someone to explain to me that when I look for, for example, NEAK as a former OEP, which is the public health funder, to ask the frequency of some benefits, what number they were in, it is necessary to wait 45 days for the answer in which they say they do not know this. So, in itself, an answer in which they say that they do not handle data is also required to wait 45 days. For example, what is the reason why this Regulation should be maintained? Because my fellow Member Hollik has talked about justified cases where it is indeed necessary to maintain them, but a law can be made for this, in which the agreement of all Members can be established, and it is not for the government to be empowered to maintain them, or to do so, but to be able to maintain them and to be in a separate legislation, so that they can be maintained, not by requiring a legislative mandate, but by establishing them as separate legislation. That might be one of the most important things. Overall, it can be concluded, and once again it can only be said that Viktor Orbán wants to maintain the emergency by five months now. It is not new, the Prime Minister has led the country into an emergency in the last few years, he has become accustomed to this, to the expansion of his powers and to the weakening of the powers of everyone else. Of course, he will continue to bear the responsibility. We hope that this will be much different from during the coronal virus epidemic, when Hungary had one of the saddest indicators in terms of mortality. We hope that after a while or a short time, you will come to your senses and say that this mandate is not necessary, and that you will be able to carry government according to the ordinary legal order, although we have already had doubts about that. Such a proposal cannot be voted for by the right-wing Jobbik, so do not ask for our support. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-06-08-50	Thank you, Congressman Luke. I now give the floor to Mr István Apáti, the lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Group.
u2022-06-08-51	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Madam Secretary, In the end, I would like to start with my speech and the end: so, in this way, the Group of our country will not be able to support this proposal, but, of course, for completely different reasons or reasons, than the extreme left-wing or extreme liberal opposition does. But before I get to the details after these kind thoughts, let me say a few words about the last two years, slowly two and a half years. It is virtually true that we have to experience an endless series of actions and events that have not been experienced since World War II; we are living characters, witnesses to stories that we may have heard from the narratives of our grandparents or grandparents. It is enough to think only of the measures taken by the pandemic, which replaced the world war, during the outbreak of Covid, and at the very beginning of it, of curfew or curfew restrictions. We have to take seriously the international and domestic warning, if you like, of the international and internal political warning that the pandemic replacing the world war, the alleged calming down of Covid, the Russian-Ukrainian war in our neighbourhood, and more specifically, in Ukrainian territory, because the exact designation, I believe, is closer to reality, as we have seen the epidemics, the dangers, the decades of war. Since the richest man in the world, Bill Gates, has said this almost literally, we have reason to believe that he is on the one hand a little further ahead than any of us here, and on the other hand this threat, because we can interpret it as a threat wrapped in information, and it looks like it's going to be replaced year after year by novelties and negative novelties. In fact, the war is, according to the view of the Hungarian Movement, about the creation of a new world order, as Covid and the compulsory vaccination or vaccination obligation related to it, an extra profit from vaccine manufacturers and pharmaceutical manufacturers, which, by the way, is not intended to be limited or reduced by the government, or at least to obtain some benefit for and for the benefit of the country or the budget. Well, we agree that we should stay on the Russian-Ukrainian for this title, perhaps in a simpler war, we will provide humanitarian aid to those in need with all our means. And here we can make a serious difference and a clear distinction between refugees and immigrants, because those who come from Ukraine and Transcarpathia are actually refugees, because there is a war going on in their country and they want to enter Hungary in this case, the first safe country. This morning's news reports say we've helped 750,000 people. This is just as well as the support of the Hungarian Movement for helping those in need not only within the territory of the motherland, but also in Ukraine or Transcarpathia, where appropriate. This is indeed a moral, legal and international obligation of Hungary arising from a fundamental humane or humane attitude. In addition, we can meet refugees from the same culture circle, not the third, fourth world, now with serial guns and machine rifles at our southern borders, which threaten the lives of Hungarian soldiers and Hungarian police officers, but also the real needy, real refugees. In 32 points, it is listed in this presentation what they intend to extend practically until at least 1 November, and then we will see how the international situation stands before 1 November, sometime in September and in October. We fear that it will not end until then, as things currently stand, the events are unfortunately pointing in this direction. It is likely that from then on there will be a further extension of these measures, which will be extended to 2023. At the same time, we should be saddened to note that you, honourable members of the Government, feel that you are responsible only for success and for all other measures that adversely affect Hungarian people, Hungarian micro- and small businesses, you are not responsible. [[11.50]] They feel that this can be blamed on the international political situation, the Covid, the war in our neighbourhood, so they don't comment on it, they try to pretend that it doesn't exist, they generously overlook these things. And I'd like to start right here with what we're basically supporting, because we came up with it, and for two years, our homeland movement has been stressing the introduction of an extra-profit tax or, as we call it, an epidemic solidarity tax, but they've also left the vaccine manufacturers out of it, they've skipped the pharmaceutical companies, they've skipped casinos and multinational tech companies. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: They're in.]] In the context of the reduction, we see that, in fact, the reduction in the rent is decreasing to an increasing extent, as last year employers or businesses with more than 10 employees who had a net turnover of HUF 4 billion could receive some kind of discount, benefit from the reduction of the rent, and then stop doing so. After that, micro and small enterprises with fewer than 10 employees and a net annual turnover of HUF 4 billion could benefit from this benefit. And now, on Saturday, a government decree has been issued, which will, in effect, terminate the preferential gas and electricity prices from 1 July or possibly mid-July or early August, which means that these costs may increase by five or even seven times. Since you do not want to provide any compensation, you will leave these micro and small businesses to their fate. They will probably be a mass failure, or they will be forced to raise prices that will increase inflation to a further significant extent, but you really do not want to deal with this, you will not care about the fate of at least 30-40 thousand micro and small enterprises, even though the maintenance and extension of the reduction could have taken place in this motion, in addition to or after 32 points, as a reference to 33 or 34. I counted five points in some form, some name for electricity and natural gas prices, there could have been a sixth and a seventh. This is not only in relation to this item on the agenda, but in the last few days it has generally been left out, pretending that it does not exist, as if everything is very well here. They do not take into account the fact that companies with less than 10 employees and a turnover or revenue below 4 billion net turnover are one of the pillars of the national economy, and these businesses are suffering from stock shortages, material shortages, a lack of quality and quantity of labour, they are hit by inflation, weak forints, and now, lame, here on a hump, they are still burdened with five times-seven times electricity and gas prices, without coordination, without warning, with a short deadline, not even giving them a transitional period. It's absolutely shocking. And what they're doing to the kata in such a historically difficult time is quite shocking. We understand that they do not want to eliminate it, but they only want to make it more costly for entrepreneurs because this measure was successful. One of the few success stories of the last 12 years is that 430,000 people are taxed according to the rules of the cata, but they can do so in a much more costly and limited way, although this tax has always brought much more to the kitchen than was planned. But to address the most serious issue, I must mention the abolition of the property auction and eviction moratorium. Thank you very much, Minister, for your direct, clear and clear reply, which you sent to me here during a private discussion, because, running through the presentation, I researched and searched very, very carefully, but I could not find the rules on the property auction and eviction moratorium. And although I have not listened to every word that every opposition Member has said in the debate, I have not heard any comments on this, if I am wrong, and that is one of the most serious situations. After all, the fact that tens of thousands of women, according to the Minister, would have been able to help a much larger circle, in our view, until these truly extraordinary and distressing times have passed, and finally inflation has fallen, forints are not strengthened, domestic and international military and economic situations have not stabilised. If for a year and a half or two the executive hyenas couldn't stand the execution mafia saying that they couldn't get their hands on at least the most valuable bites, they could have lasted another six months. It would be good to learn 32 years after the so-called change of regime that there is no need to be sorry, no need to fear, or these four are the last in the line that anyone will regret at any time. We do not understand why they do not help these two moratoriums together, with their continued maintenance of the most needy. Because, of course, it is possible to argue about the situation of debtors in the affected circle because of their own faults or without self-inflicted error, but I believe we can agree that it is quite amazing that you have governed nine years out of the last 12 years with two-thirds authority, and have not been able or could not do, had no courage, could not have the courage to deal with the bankers, let us say, with the Croatian model. But not only in Croatia, but also elsewhere, the situation of foreign exchange-based authentics has been settled, but this has not yet been achieved in Hungary, even though it has been here continuously, almost two-thirds of the mandate of the current government to do so. What authority do you need, honourable government representatives? Four-fifths, nine-tenths, or maybe the fact that you're gonna give all 199 members after an election to save the victims of the legal loan shark crime? 'Cause we haven't seen a draw like this, such damage, such legalized usury crime in the last 32 years, like what started in the Gyurcsány era, and you've forgotten to stop it, but you've taken some braked foaming measures. But if they have not already been able to do so, and now they have been given a more stringent two-thirds mandate than ever before, they have also had time to think about it, and while they are thinking, it would be very good to maintain the moratorium on auction and eviction. Don't worry about the bailiffs. Look at the articles published in the last few days. We find it quite amazing that György Schadl, in the hive and in his company, realised HUF 258 million, and this most likely intellectual criminal made more money on his own than the total population of an average village in Borsodi or Szabolcs last year. Most people in Szabolcsi or Borsodi do not see the tiny fraction of this in their lives that György Schadl was looking for while most of the time was in a hive. You want to help this enforcement mafia, or you don't want to protect people from it, depending on whether I want to put it in a stronger or more subtle way, practically as a free prey, as a conceit, this circle of debtors, which is now, when the property prices are at the historic peak and they can stay for a while, is particularly valuable even for real estate in settlements that, say, 5-10 or 15 years ago were not among the most valuable settlements or real estates, at least from a real estate market point of view, so that they don't misunderstand. Real estate prices are incredibly high. Real estate, which is heavily renovated, can be bought at a diamond price or even more expensive, but they are a very valuable snack for executives. At least the property should be protected in this way. What justifies it, my fellow Members, and I would like to ask the Minister for a more detailed explanation for this, why the eviction and auction moratorium will not be extended until at least 1 November, especially the auction moratorium? The bailiffs thank you very much. They're fine. Although I understand their attitude, because, respect for the exception, the vast majority of them are hyenas, and we know from the cartoon "The Lion King" that a hyena is never full. All we have to do is stop him. You have been authorized to protect people from executive mafia, executive hyenas, and those who committed crimes will be sent to prison for a long time. [[12.00]] Compared to this, they simply leave this out of the list, because various interests point in this direction, it would be contrary to different interests if people were protected. So as the lead speaker of the Hungarian Movement, I strongly demand the extension of the property auction and eviction moratorium to at least no-vember 1, and if the situation justifies it, even in the subsequent period. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-06-08-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Mr Lóránt Keresztes, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2022-06-08-53	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Madam Secretary, We're in a difficult situation, and there's a war conflict next door due to a terrible military aggression. I would like to begin by thanking everyone who is working to protect the security of the Hungarian people with respect to their work, and thanking everyone who is helping people fleeing the horrors of war. I think that this is exemplary, as the Hungarian people and Hungary have proven to be helping those in distress. We've seen this before, I've listened to it closely and I've seen this conflict. In 1991, I was 16 years old when I could hear the gunfire following the South Slavic war, I am Pécsi, and we could see how much help was needed by people who were afraid of the horrors of the war, and we could also see that the Hungarian man was helping those in distress. I think these difficult times will confirm that. It is not possible to strongly condemn the disgusting Russian aggression that has happened that Russia has practically ignored international law, attacked a country as an aggressor, and it is quite horrific to see what despicable things they do during the war. Obviously, we all have to work and do everything we can to ensure that this war conflict is clearly over as soon as possible and that Hungarian people can be freed from its effects as much as possible. At the same time, I agree with the speeches on the fact that we are really living in the times of crisis and following each other in the wake of various critical manifestations, here in the wake of the coronal virus epidemic, we can now see war in conflict, but I do not think that we need to open up a debate on the fact that the impact of climate change and environmental destruction on our lives is, in itself, a crisis. So it is quite clear that we are not entering an era, we are not living in an era that we have become accustomed to in the past, and that we need to act in a completely different way. We must prepare for these challenges we have never seen before, and the basis for this is obviously to strengthen Hungary's self-sufficiency and self-determination, to protect it, and to try to strengthen the tendency of the Hungarian people to provide themselves in every way, I think about food, and I also think about energy supply issues here. Here again, we have a bill that has been put forward with the intention, or the official justification, that it is necessary for the government to be able to respond to these challenges, to act, to protect Hungarian people and to release the economy as much as possible in the shadow of the war conflict. Here, Minister, you have said that the principles of gradualness and necessity will be enforced. We've heard this before in the period of the coronal virus epidemic. Unfortunately, however, we can see this from experience, and the Hungarian people have seen from experience that this did not prevail, and many times you have not lived, but have abused the extraordinary mandate. Every time you tell us that in the previous period you have respected the gradualness and necessity, we will draw attention so many times to how and how you have abused the extraordinary mandate. One of their first measures in the extraordinary legal order during the coronal virus epidemic was to brutally restrict local governments, thus bringing people living in cities and settlements. It was also an important measure for you, an important measure, that they maintained the enrichment of their own oligarchs even in the years of the crisis, because using the extraordinary legal order, they provided nearly HUF 18 billion to the hotel chain of Lőrinc Mészáros when he took out a dividend of this magnitude from his construction company. So it was clear that during the crisis you were busy with the task of restricting and enriching your own lunar yards many times. Obviously, this bill, together with the fact that the situation is extremely serious, cannot be dealt with lightly with the crisis that we are experiencing now, and what lies ahead in many of its elements does not serve the government's capacity to act, since the objectives that have been set can also be pursued through a traditional, ordinary legislative procedure. The extent to which the majority of the government, the Fidesz-KDNP, assist in this is quite frightening. We can think of a system of special taxes, which, by the way, we are largely in agreement with. Obviously, we agree with the fact that multinational companies, the extra profit, must be taxed. At the same time, the fact that the majority of Fidesz-KDNP would completely renounce their decision on the details of this is quite amazing, and that it is being taken to a virtually government level, as it is a huge, huge measure of the magnitude of a thousand billion. My fellow Members have mentioned the provision on the deadline for requesting data. Once again, it's just a power technique that we can't support, it has nothing to do with, it has nothing to do with the control of the epidemic, and now it can't be justified in the shadow of the war conflict. I would like to respond to a great deal of what has been said here, on the one hand, by my fellow opposition Members and, on the other hand, by the pro-government speakers, we have heard various resolutions on matters that are important. We can say that you are asking the government side that we are talking about austerity, while you are constantly and brutally imposing restrictions in this situation, while, by the way, before the elections, it was specifically used as a campaign theme that there would be no austerity. There is no other way to assess whether the municipalities are suffering from further brutal withdrawals or restrictions or disadvantages. But let it be clear to everyone that the municipalities are responsible for ensuring the most important public services at this time and also during a period of peace. Thus, when they are deprived of funds, the municipalities are deprived of the possibility of protection of public utilities, Hungarians living in cities, settlements and districts will be subjected to restrictions, as the municipalities will face very serious difficulties in maintaining such key public services as public lighting, drinking water supply or public transport. This is certainly unsubstantiated, and we demand that local governments not be subject to restrictions, do not resort to restrictions on the Hungarian people living in cities or living in villages. Energy policy has been mentioned here, patriot economic policy has been mentioned, otherwise it has rightly been said about the desire to strengthen self-sufficiency and self-determination. With regard to the oil embargo, which the European Commission presented earlier, we have also said very strongly that we do not support any measures that would bring the Hungarian economy to its knees and put Hungarian people in an impossible position. We have also said that the compromise that has been reached can be accepted for us, even though on the other hand we do not see any steps on the part of the government towards real energy self-sufficiency. We also said that maritime transport of fossil fuels is not acceptable from an environmental point of view instead of pipeline transport. At the same time, we still do not understand why, at such a critical time, when everyone knows precisely that this is the age of crises, the government is not taking any meaningful steps to ensure Hungary's energy self-sufficiency, and that we can truly separate ourselves from Russian energy. A few days ago Minister Palkovic said that we are now living in a time of no matter what color the energy should be. Compared to this, the Hungarian government continues to limit the use of wind energy, for example, for reasons that do not understand, where there would be enormous opportunities for Hungary to take real steps to ensure energy self-sufficiency, building on renewable energy sources, and thus really reducing energy dependence and vulnerability. Here he also spoke about the patriot economic policy, Mr Simicskó Group Leader. We do not understand it, and in this context, we have always stressed the importance of why you have always supported, without criticism, free trade agreements on the surrender of Hungary's sovereignty. Why do they support such gigantic investments when they want to flood Hungary or Europe with mass products transported from a distance instead of supporting the service of needs through local production or regional cooperation? So why aren't patriots pushing for real patriot economic policy, why are they serving the great power of economic policy? Why do they conclude strategic agreements with multinational companies when small and medium-sized enterprises should be supported? Why don't you support Hungary's energy self-sufficiency? Why don't you really invest resources in the spread of renewable energy? Why do they tax solar energy, why do they forbid wind energy? And what is very important in this time of crisis: why not take meaningful steps to protect our natural resources? This, by the way, has a very serious national political dimension. The day of national solidarity has come up, a few days ago we remembered the national day of mourning, and we have talked about the importance of national cohesion, and we see that we are facing enormous challenges in this area. I have spoken here on several occasions before the National Assembly about the ignominious pollution affecting the Sajó River. Practically in Slovakia, the Sajó River in Rozsnyo district died for tens of kilometers. [[12.10]] This is a problem the government has been using for months. Just yesterday, an independent measurement revealed that arsenic levels were already above the limit on this side of the border. But obviously it was only a matter of time before these extremely toxic substances were passed to the Hungarian river section. I think that if we feel responsible for the Hungarians from abroad, if we feel responsible for safeguarding our common natural resources in the Carpathian Basin, then it is clear that it is our moral duty and also our legal opportunity to protect the Sajó or the Transylvanian tributaries of the Tisza, for which there are equally serious cases and more serious impurities. It should be clear to everyone that this is also linked to self-sufficiency, as this level of pollution is already present in the groundwater, endangering drinking water bases and, indeed, endangering the potential of agricultural production in these areas where these brutal pollution occurs. This is why I do not understand why the government, calling itself national at the level of words and passwords, does not take decisive steps to protect our rivers in danger, thus helping Hungarians living in foreign territory, helping to preserve our natural treasures in the Carpathian Basin, and, of course, we also urge steps to protect the Hungarian river sections. We can't see a trace of that, unfortunately. So in these times of crisis, it is particularly important to talk about these issues. Here came the day of national solidarity, the day of remembering the outrageous Trianon decision, and, in this case, this issue was discussed before the agenda. Here's a case I'd like to talk about, and I just have to respond to it. On the day of national solidarity, on the national day of mourning, we heard an outrageous and unacceptable statement from Péter Niedermüller, Mayor of Erzsébetváros. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Yes!]] He said that thanks to Trianon, Hungarians from abroad live better. I think that, regardless of whether we are opposition or pro-government, such an outrageous statement cannot be left out of the question, I will not do anything to leave it unspoken. [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] In addition to viewing this statement as shameful in itself, this is serious insensitive. [[Zsolt Gréczy and Dr. István Apáti intervene.]] Congressman, I would very much like you to press a button, and then we may be able to discuss this issue, but if you would just let me finish my comment. [[Intercoms from DK and Jobbik.]] Well, in addition to the fact that we consider the mayor's statement to be an outrage in itself, this proves that he is extremely insensitive to all those who live in minority ranks in their homeland and in their ancestors' homeland, and indeed experience an amazing number of disadvantages. I do not understand how the mayor of Erzsébetváros took the liberty of making such a statement, when he clearly has no idea of the atrocities that are being suffered by Hungarians abroad on a regular basis, unfortunately in the past. Mr Mayor also spoke about the fact that in neighbouring countries Hungarians from abroad share freedom, open society and belonging to Europe. I do not know which sign is appropriate for the desecration of the Hungarian military cemetery, as mayor interprets it. I do not know which adjective is appropriate to restrict the right to use mother tongue. I don't know which sign fits that the Beneš decrees are being held in force. I do not know which sign fits when, in 2018, the Romanian Prime Minister at that time threatened to hang those who put the Szekler flag on the offices. In 2018, Mr Mayor, I recall that he was a Member of the European Parliament, and we did not find any trace of him drawing the European Parliament's attention to the outrageous anti-Hungarian incitement that took place in a Member State of the European Union. Unfortunately, we can see that political actors in the European political elite do not show much sensitivity in relation to the fate of Hungarians from abroad, the attacks on Hungarians from abroad, but in general in Europe on the issue of indigenous national minorities. At the same time, we find it dangerous that a Hungarian political player represents such an extreme position towards our national tragedy and the fate of Hungarians from abroad. I thought it was important to say this, not only on behalf of myself, but also on behalf of my party, the presidency of our party. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, I consider it a serious crime to place the issue of national policy under party political intentions. I consider it a serious sin that, when there is a very tangible effort for you, by the way, from the opposition to all its parties, so that national policy cannot be the object of party political battles, and that you reject it and make it impossible from the technical calculation of power to form any consensus on this issue. You are denying all the manifestations, the aspirations and the steps that we have taken here in recent cycles in order to protect and enforce the rights of Hungarians abroad. So I think that when someone puts national politics under party political intentions, or uses it under the authority of power technology, they commit a crime, whether they are pro-government or opposition. And this is a particularly serious sin in times of crisis, when it is really important to strengthen national cohesion, and it is particularly important to feel that we are dependent on each other in the Carpathian Basin. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Nacsa Lőrinc: Part applause!]]
u2022-06-08-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I now give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa for two minutes, KDNP.
u2022-06-08-55	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I would like to ask you to note that Zsolt Gréczy told László Lóránt Keresztes that you have a faction at all thanks to us. This is the threatening pace of the Gyurcsányist, which was also applied before 2010; so as not to get a rubber bullet from the honourable Member, DK. It was Zsolt Gréczy who said that it was Slovakia and Romania to take care of the people across the border when the vaccines had to be delivered to them; it was Zsolt Gréczy who said that treason was the money spent on the focia academies across the border, and that it was Zsolt Gréczy who attacked people across the border day and night. We can see that this Gyurcsányist threatening pace, when he tells László Lóránt Keresztes, his ally, that we can make a faction, be glad of that. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-08-56	Thank you, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. Dear Parliament, Further speeches by Members are possible in the remaining timeframes. These may be monitored on the meeting room table. I give the floor to Congressman Mihály Witzmann, Fidesz.
u2022-06-08-57	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Madam Secretary, Ladies and gentlemen, I would say that I was inspired here by the left-wing, otherwise extremely important comments. With regard to the comments not always made following the content of the draft law, one would have wanted to give answers one by one, but obviously by following the genre of Parliament one presses a button at a time, and I would say that they inspired me, but I was more inspired by these comments. As it happens, when we have heard comments from our fellow Member Gergely Arató here from the representatives of DK, he is now not only the leader of the left, but also his most loyal followers regularly apply the term "the illegal government". I think we're going through a democratic election. We are going through a democratic election where everyone has had the opportunity to delegate election observers, and the opposition parties have also lived in accordance with the rules of democracy. As many international observers have never participated in election campaigns in Hungary as they are now. How interesting life is, from the left at the time of the campaign, we've always heard that in my constituency, too, the power is the people's, and then when the people decide in some way, it turns out that this power that the people endowed the current governing parties is not so much liked by the opposition, and then there is no other way to say that it is illegal to govern. That's a pretty thin argument, I guess. When you say that you are pressing me, my fellow Member Arató, I would like to remind him of the restrictions that were imposed on you during your administration, and I do not list them because, on the one hand, we all know exactly, and fortunately, the result of the elections shows that the Hungarian people still remember this very much and accurately and well, otherwise they would not have voted the way they did. And on the other hand, I would be accused of being a part of the clay mine again, which, by the way, does not bother me very much, but that is not what this law is about, and on the other hand its content is much more important, I think, than going into such political give-and-takes. I think that if we look back only for the last 10 to 12 years, then Hungarian people have had to face challenges, and regardless of the ideologies of the parties, I think we all see it the same way. There have been natural disasters, floods, droughts, financial and economic crises, there has been an illegal mass migration that has been taking place since then, only the border fence that the civilian government has built will significantly reduce the negative effects of this wave. [[12.20]] And, of course, we also had to face a world pandemic, a global epidemic, which is a huge challenge in the case of humanity facing such challenges in the past every hundred years or hundreds of years, and now we have a prolonged war in our neighbourhood, a war in two neighbouring countries, which, by the way, is not only a war conflict, but also an economic and energy crisis. Now, if we sum up these special life situations, special situations and emergencies over the last 10 to 12 years, if we look at the history books, we can safely say that we didn't have to face so many difficulties in the past 100 to 200 years. And these difficult situations create special legal order, special governance mechanisms, if you will, emergencies and emergency governance, I believe, for the sake of efficiency and proper response and responsiveness. And we have nothing else to do with these measures, and I think I can say this on behalf of all the representatives of the pro-government factions, but that we should be able to respond as effectively as possible to these challenges and to these problems in order to protect the country. And it was once again a quote on the overpower and the lack of control, which was also said by our fellow left-wing Member. I don't think that's the case. We are talking about appropriate control mechanisms and Parliament's powers of control all the time. Plus a time limit has been incorporated into this bill for emergency governance. I believe that the government's rapid responsiveness must be precisely in order to protect those results, as far as possible without serious injuries, such as the reduction of overhead, the protection of jobs, the protection of pensioners, the protection of pensions or the protection of the support of families, because we are not talking about a lightning war, we are not talking about a short crisis, but, unfortunately, we are talking about a prolonged war, and at the same time we are talking about a prolonged military, economic and energy crisis. [[Dr. László Keresztes is talking to representatives of DK.]] Therefore, our goal must be to protect the country's security and economy. I think that is exactly what this bill is about, which is precisely what it is for, and which is what it supports, as is the budget for 2023, which was also clearly born for defence, security and reduction of overhead. On these very grounds, I ask my fellow Members to put aside party political-ideological sympathy, beliefs, orientations and thoughts, and to represent what is good for the country, especially for the Hungarian people, so I ask you to support the law outlined by the Minister in the vote. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-06-08-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman István Apáti, Mi Hazank.
u2022-06-08-59	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, This is just the end of the Avaron, or the peeling in the chamber, a specific left-wing conflict resolution. The course of the debate has been rather interesting, and I have a long feeling that the general debates are sometimes similar to a high school poem analysis, so there is a lot that can be broken down, not only in every detail of reality, but also in a very wide view of the proposal. I would first respond to the words of Lóránt László Keresztes, the leader of the LMP, and, on the one hand, I commend him on what he said about Péter Niedermüller's statements of intellectual-verbal treason and qualified treason, but we also monitor the view and walk of the leader of the group. [[Defiance.]] And the senses of the Mi Hazan fraction are razor-sharp at the beginning of the cycle. For this reason, I have now noticed that you are trying to get ahead of us from the right, but it is too late to be sad, and the late sorrow is ebject, as the old Hungarian saying holds. Although, if we recall the old Hungarian sayings, it is also possible to say that a party who had seen some of the most beautiful days even opposed one of the oldest Hungarian sayings, according to which the swinetor is not violent, but that is just a parentheses note, which is really less related to the debate. As far as the energy or energy situation is concerned, there was also much truth in the words of the previous speakers, in the words of Mr Crusader Group leader, because energy security has indeed become a key issue, and the question now is not only whether we can get electricity, natural gas or any other energy at all, or gas oil, gasoline and therefore fuel, but whether there will be any. Because the fact that it's expensive is already in place, it's an existing situation, it's happened, it's just that at all, even at gold prices, we can buy fuel and fuel. It would therefore be very welcome to put a proposal on the table that will help both metropolitan and rural people to adapt to the changed situation and to implement decisions, which could otherwise be extended to micro- and small businesses, since it can be seen that they will now be left out of the reduction of the rent, this will be eliminated, neither the extended exceptional measures nor any other measures will help them, and at least partial assistance could be given to them through the priority support for the deployment of solar systems. But what is more important, and it is actually closely linked to this motion, is what I would like to return to, because I have just come to the end of the 15-minute timeframe, and this is the issue of the two moratoriums, the property auction and eviction moratorium. And in this we would like to prove that we operate differently than leftist factions, and not with cellular hatred or gut resistance, no matter what the ruling party says, we are doing the opposite on a say-so basis, but we are trying to show a healthy opposition constructivity in the interests of the Hungarian people. What I want out of this is this. Dear Madam Secretary, Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I can make the gallant offer that, if you are willing to extend the extension of the measures to the eviction and property auction moratorium until at least 1 November, we will also be willing to vote in favour of the package of measures, of which we do not agree with a number of parts of it and its foundations in general, but over the heads of tens of thousands of Hungarians, the livelihood of tens of thousands of Hungarian families, and the security of tens of thousands of Hungarian families not only of energy, but also of real estate, is worth making this offer or this proposal in the spirit of constructivity, because we can at least temporarily help a lot of people, until we manage to present a package of proposals that will help them permanently and irreparablely from a currency-based credit trap. In fact, it is a shocking government mistake to leave the property that is to be auctioned in many rural settlements and the Hungarian people who are about to be evicted to their fate. There can be a lot of Fidesz voters among them, according to the law of the big numbers, the vast majority of these people may have voted for you on 3 April, and a betrayal will mean that if they are let down now, just because the next election is very far away, it will take almost four years to wait. Therefore, these people are counting on you; they are counting on our country's movement, the party that has revealed the enforcement mafia, and how far or just how high these tentacles lead. That is why we give at least this protection to the debtors and provide them with the extension of these two moratoriums, because it is true that now the pandemic may be beginning to subside, we hope that there will be no other pandemic caused by another virus, but the war is taking place at increasing speed, we can read about increasingly terrible, terrible developments on the Internet and hear from various sources of news. The weakening of the forint, the increasing rate of inflation, will become even more severe. I hope we can avoid 1947. I hope that it will not repeat what I know from my grandmother's narratives when they sweeped the pengo on the Hungarian streets. I hope we do not get this far, but in the current situation of the war, we should be very careful and moderate, and at least the most valuable, the only property of most Hungarians, their own house and apartments, of which you are the only one for most Hungarians, because most Hungarians cannot buy homes and houses for investment purposes, at least protect them and extend the eviction and auction moratorium. [[12.30]] If you are willing to do so, we too will be willing to make a flexible decision and vote in favour of this package of proposals. I expect a clear and clear answer from Madam Prime Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-06-08-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató for two minutes, DK.
u2022-06-08-61	Thank you very much. My fellow members of the Government are once again calling on the opposition to behave patriotically and to put aside party political interests. That's what we do, fellow Members. We love our country too much to leave it to the unlimited power of the Orbán government, which is why we will vote against this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2022-06-08-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congresswoman Elijah Boglarka, Fidesz.
u2022-06-08-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Although we could have listened to a comment from the left that could have been discussed in the Legislative Committee yesterday and expressed its concerns about the bill there, I understand or understand why he did not do so, as my fellow Member, István Hollik, mentioned, that if he had already built the interpretation of reality on false basic assumptions in itself, he could then draw wrong conclusions and thus make false conclusions, which is enough once he tells me, and I agree that a committee meeting is not necessary or justified. What I would like to point out is that if it were up to you, the price of petrol would be 700 forints, and the price of gas oil would be 800 forints. Let's make that clear. If it were up to you, the oil embargo would also affect Hungary. This would put jobs in jeopardy, endanger the livelihoods of Hungarian families and thus the safety of Hungarian people, and I could continue that if it were up to you, then what would happen would be unnecessary, because the overwhelming majority of Hungarian people, more than 3 million Hungarians, decided that this should not depend on you, but on Fidesz, and that should depend on the government led by Fidesz-KDNP. However, what I think is perhaps even more important, although my fellow Members have said it several times, but I do not think it can be repeated enough, is that it is the humanitarian crisis and disaster that has not been experienced since the Second World War, which is also affecting us, because the consequences of the prolonged war in our neighbourhood are already felt by us. Some people are concerned about this and it is important that we support them and ensure that we are in favour of Hungarian interests and we are in favour of Hungarian people. Some people help. It is very important that we stand by them to thank them. I would also like to thank the Ukrainian ethnic advocate for his comment yesterday, as Grexa Liliana is here today as well, and thanked the aid organisations, NGOs, volunteers and staff who are taking part in the care and assistance of refugees every day. And, of course, there are those who have to work and work to overcome the consequences, and that is what the Hungarian government is doing. The Hungarian government is trying to protect Hungarian people from rising world market prices, to protect Hungarian people from the economic recession and the crisis caused by potential food shortages, thus protecting and serving Hungarian people and Hungarian families. This is what the Hungarian people have given us the authority to do, and that is what I think we should do. If you'll allow me, I have a very short comment on Péter Niedermüller's Facebook entry. We have been saying for two years that a man who calls white straight Christian people a terrifying formation has no place in public life. I am pleased that more people have already seen this, but I am very sorry that you and DK have started the parliamentary elections together and are continuing to blow this stone. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2022-06-08-64	Thank you, Congresswoman Elias Boglarka. I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, LMP.
u2022-06-08-65	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I think that Parliament's relations are well marked by the shock that has been caused here, regardless of the pages, by saying that there are issues with which, let us say, we do not agree, beyond what the issues in which we agree. Members of Fidesz, opposition representatives, representatives of Mi Hungary have come to a very exciting state here. I think it's worth a little clarification about these things. For you, such a political product is that the opposition, which started in cooperation in the election, is called the left. By the way, at some point in the end of 2020, you brought in a very harsh amendment to the electoral law, when you decided that opposition parties, which, by the way, decided on constituencies coordination, should start on a list, and then used it from a power-technical point of view by calling the opposition alliance where there are left-wing parties, right-wing parties, green parties, liberal parties. We have always said that we have formulated those questions and developed a joint programme in a way that we have agreed on and based on these issues. However, there have always been, there are, and there will be differences between opposition parties. In many areas, however, as a member of the opposition programme council, I have been able to work very well with colleagues from DK and Jobbik on matters that we have been able to vote on together, we have thought together, we have been able to give an opinion in one way. There are issues in which, because we are not a united side in the Hungarian Parliament, we think differently, such as national policy. From the establishment of the LMP and its parliamentary presence in 2010, it has always been political on a national basis, and we have always considered it important to stand up for the protection of the rights of Hungarian communities abroad. By the way, we did this a lot when the government side was not represented in any way. So we were there regularly on the day of Szekler freedom, we were there at various events related to Szekler autonomy, and I might add, typically when I personally wreathed in Marosvásárhely, for example, on the day of Szekler autonomy, they read the letter from the government side of Katalin Szili. So I think that with a bit of self-criticism, you might be able to relate to yourself, what are the questions that you put on the flag, but where appropriate, when you should represent them, you are not really standing there with your whole heart and soul. It should not be taken into account that, if, say, there are opposition actors, for example, Jobbik has always had a very important national policy, in these matters they act as they derive it from their own convictions. Nevertheless, I do not think that the parties of opposition cooperation are doing the right thing by sweeping these issues, let us say, under the rug, or, let us say, by conflictingly trying to tackle them. I think that this kind of cooperation will be important, so that we can put those issues together as different opposition groups. There's no way I'd consider it worthy to respond to any yelling. I am genuinely surprised, by the way, that it is strange for Mr Apáti that I, let's say, am speaking with DK, the right-wing MEPs here in the corridor. I have also spoken to our country's Member, which is why I believe that these debates, these disputes, are far more useful in this way. I think that it is deplorable, in itself, that if we do not properly resolve such conflicts, because we are all living in a very serious challenge, and it is our job here in the Parliament to represent the interests of the Hungarian people. Congressman Abbot had a signal that we'd beat our country to the better. That's not true. There is no such intention. As a Green Party, in matters related to environmental sustainability, we are clearly ahead of everyone, and we will also overtake our country. Although this is not particularly difficult, given that Mi Hazank Hungary wants to base its energy supply on Russian nuclear energy, and they also support the new nuclear power plant blocks to be built with the Russians, which are in no way compatible with our national interests, as this does not in any way lead to Hungary's energy supply and energy security. The Russian partners have already demonstrated that they ignore not only international law in all its elements, but also nuclear safety issues. I think that anyone who takes national politics seriously takes the representation of national interests seriously, for example, cannot support the construction of a new nuclear power station block built by Russians or two nuclear power stations. Let me have so many criticisms of Mi Haza, who calls himself a national. At the same time, I also commend Mr Apáti, and I think it is positive, and we fully agree, and I think that in this regard our Hungary also agrees with DK representatives that evictions and a moratorium on auctioning should be maintained. As I have listened to these speeches from either DK or Jobbik representatives in recent weeks, I think we can say that DK and our Hungary are on a platform here. I think there is no shame in saying cooperation in such matters, and in this way these matters can be drawn up jointly. But in this situation, we have faced a rare case, a shocking and most serious corruption case of this government, towards the end of the term, and it was very difficult to reach the Minister of Justice, so I am taking advantage of her being here in this Chamber. [[12.40]] We know that your deputy has been charged with very serious corruption charges, and we know that the executor's mafia is linked to a series of charges involving Paul Völner. Then it was very difficult to obtain any information from the Minister of Justice. I would like to get an answer from you, Minister: how could it be that György Schadl, President of the Executive Faculty, who has been arrested for a long time on serious corruption charges, could still be in office; how could he still be the President of the Executive Faculty, and how could it be what my fellow Member referred to, even in prison, that he was looking for astronomical sums of money by a prominent leader of the executive mafia, who, by the way, corrupted your number one deputy and your number one confidant in connection with various corruption actions, according to the prosecution? I would very much like you to address this in your reply. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-08-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik.
u2022-06-08-67	Mr President, Dear House, It warms my heart that everyone on the eviction topic is coming after Jobbik, but let's not look for a number one in this. The fact is that when, in the autumn of 2010, at the beginning of 2011, many members of the Jobbik faction at that time in Budafok tried to redirect the injustice into the law at an eviction event, we did not think that more than a decade later we would have to talk about it in the Hungarian Parliament. What we see is that it would be a fool's errand only for this government to get the problem up and running, but if they want to point it back before 2010, then my proposal is to start putting up a flow chart from 2001 when unilateral treaty amendments have become possible. On the part of the Minister, let us commend her for being here in this debate, and I felt open to her at least to listen, to accept the opposition proposals, and I hope that we can discuss them in a number of rounds. Because I'm a little surprised at you. Many of us expected the government to be a little more generous after this election victory. To add, that would have made sense. I believe that what goes around the eviction moratorium is counterproductive to the government. The logical thing would have been that now that there was yet another reason to ask for the emergency, the extension of the special situation, it should have been in parallel, logically in my view, ordering the extension of the eviction moratorium and finally dealing with the problem in substance. The amazing overruns of the implementation system may be known to all of us. At the same time, we do not see the government package, the petition before us, which would at least attempt to resolve these overruns. We also visited an eviction in Budapest a few years ago, where another enforcement team demanded a refund. In some cases, the same claim was made by two parallel brigades, and on various cheese papers, where they tried to turn families, on the basis of handwritten cost records, from their otherwise small assets accumulated over generations. We also see that, in the most serious months of the epidemiological emergency, the government has not had a position on the issue of enforcement bans, and I hope that Madam Minister can state in the closet how justified it is that the 33 percent and 50 percent bans also apply at the lowest level of income, endangering the daily livelihood of many. Let's get something straight, Madam Secretary. When it comes to child support, let's say that it's absolutely open to me that it should be given to the mother or to the child's teacher under all circumstances, so this should not be unconditionally extended in any case. But if, let's say, the execution of a loan with a former foreign currency credit, which has already been converted into a forint loan and has been converted under strange circumstances, it is about the execution of a failed loan, then allow the 33 and 50 percent bans on small pensioners not to be enforced unconditionally. Let us say that a minimum wage of up to 10 per cent of it should be applied, or that we should bring about a regulation whereby not only the interests of the enforcer prevail in the best interests of the contrary. It is unmanageable that in the middle of a crisis, our senior compatriots or family members have to play chess at the end of the month by turning the remainder of the income banned by the enforcer into nutrition or last forints for drug substitution. We also see that my discussion on the same issue has been more than instructive with Secretary of State Répássy. He tried to reassure me, more precisely, to explain the government's certificate that, in fact, 99.5 percent of the cases were voluntarily leaving their homes, and only half a percent needed any coercion, so he said it wasn't my opinion, but that if someone voluntarily leaves their home, it was settled; I quoted. This is a very, very serious philosophical gap between us. The fact that someone in such a difficult situation can somehow find a way to stay with relatives, except for a rent on the outskirts of a more affordable, say, rural town, or go to a farm, does not mean that this situation has been resolved. It is also a family, also living people and not barcodes, who have family intentions and children's intentions. They may have to give up the desire to have children because they are in such an unworthy situation. I do not want to stretch the framework of the debate and go back to, say, the rather odd and incorrect circumstances of the forinting, why the so-called loan was converted to HUF 256, which, in turn, is certain that we would like to hear a concrete position on the eviction moratorium. Secretary of State Répássy said that this does not immediately fall into the market, because 15 days are ticking, and then the deadlines continue. This is what we mean, but after the fortunately achieved eviction moratorium, if these cases rush into the real estate market in just a few months, and even the executives begin their mass activity of abuse, it can cause a socio-social disaster in Hungary. Not only do we not assist in this, but we try to do so within the existing framework of the law and legal aid. But it's not our responsibility in the first place, it's yours. So we are looking for a clear position on the eviction moratorium, and that the impertinent enforcement bans that have been going through the months of the epidemiological emergency have been planned by the government for any rational intervention. Thirdly, my bonus question relates to the fact that the government plans to put a problem-solving package on the table against the overruns and excesses of the entire implementation system. If so and if it is fair, you can count on us during the discussion, and if that package helps the situation of the victims, we will vote for it. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-06-08-68	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. I give the floor to Congressman István Apáti, Mi Hazank.
u2022-06-08-69	Thank you very much. Mr President, Who's next?
u2022-06-08-70	Congressman Abbot.
u2022-06-08-71	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I must respond to the words of Dániel Z. and László László Keresztes. I'd like to start with Mr. Z. Carpathian, who said that everyone is going after the Jobbik or is going off on the eviction. Well, God help us to keep our country movement from following Jobbik in whatever it is we are now. It's about the lemmings, you know, like the collective suicide of those little rodents, and we'd jump into the sea, into the bottomless depths if we followed Jobbik in any way. If I have understood it correctly here, then in the debate, Mi Hazan raised or noticed the shortcoming that the extension of the eviction and auction moratorium was left out of this 32 points list by some mysterious circumstance. As for the leader of the LMP faction, many things need to be corrected here, Mr. Group Leader, because you are trying to stir cards cleverly, but I will not allow you to overtake us from the right or to try to twist our words. Otherwise, the gap should be asked by Mr Niedermüller, since the exploration of the deepest depths of spiritual darkness is the competence of Mr Niedermüller; here I was forced to respond only to the voice of Mr Arató. I'm not gonna let you personally humiliate me or my party at any time, so if it's a debate or a spiritual duel, you can always count on me. Though it is true that a spiritual duel with unarmed ones is not something you want to fight. [[Gergely Harvestó: I'll exert myself, and I'll let you know if I have to.]] If you don't have a shirt, you don't take it personally. Dear Chief of Staff, As you said, he was not telling the truth, so it is not true that we are unconditionally supporting nuclear investment. You only heard or want to hear one of the sentences. [[12.50]] We have also added that, in addition to the fact that nuclear energy cannot be bypassed and cannot be replaced in the short term, unfortunately this is a fact, and we must be aware of that, we cannot give a supportive vote on the content of contracts that have been encrypted for many decades. So as long as the contracts are not public until they are transparent until they meet the requirements of transparency, obviously we cannot grant a mandate for Bianko and we cannot give a vote of support. That's a very important clarification, because that's not how you put it. I do not want to mention here, in the absence of time, that you have practically released an apology of such a discount price, with braked foam, here towards Congressman Gréczy after their previous loud and then less loud word fight or conflict. In any case, we look forward to the Minister's clear and clear answer. I urge you carefully and repeatedly to address this question explicitly and unambiguously in your response. If you are willing to accept the proposal of the Hungarian Movement and, at the same time, I think your highly gallant, generous offer, namely to support the eviction and auction moratorium, will be included as at least 33 points in this list of 32 points, then we will vote in favour of this package of proposals. After all, we stand constructively on these issues, as I said, we are not pursuing a policy of gut or cellular hatred, which has been and will continue to be left to the far left and to the extreme liberal parties. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-06-08-72	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató for two minutes, DK.
u2022-06-08-73	Thank you very much. Here I am thrilled to see my fellow Members having a very extensive debate among themselves on various issues, but, if I may, I would like to return to the bill, and because the Democratic Coalition has a debate with the government and the Fidesz in the first place and not with the other opposition parties, I would therefore like to respond to the comments of Mrs Boglárka Illés. But I wouldn't start with the debate, I would start with what we agree on. Yes, we agree, government and opposition, that we are grateful to all the citizens, municipalities, NGOs, churches, state bodies that have done and are doing to ensure that refugees who have arrived in Hungary have a better life and greater security. We agree on that. I in Kőbány and Kispesten was very pleased to see that in the two municipalities the right-wing and the left could agree and act together and take action on this issue. What we disagree about, and I'm sorry to bring this up, I didn't say it on purpose in my first comment, because I didn't think it was that important unless you mentioned the committee meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The Legislative Committee is not the venue for a general debate. Therefore, you are wrong and you do not know the Rules of the House if you are asking me why I am conducting the general debate during the general debate, and you are wrong and you are violating the rules of the House if you, as rapporteur on the committee, do not report on what happened on the committee, but you are speaking the lead speech of Fidesz. More importantly, honourable Member, as much as you do not like it, we are sitting here in Parliament, here are the opposition representatives. We'll tell you what the opposition's position is, not you trying to tell us what we think, because on such occasions you're always wrong in the field of cheap propaganda and untruths. Spare us that. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and Momentum.]]
u2022-06-08-74	Thank you very much. The next speaker is László Keresztes Lóránt, LMP.
u2022-06-08-75	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I would like to respond to Mr Abbot's repeated speech. Then I didn't understand exactly our country's position on the use of nuclear power, but now it's a little clear. So nuclear energy is not considered to be avoided, but transparency is lacking in the current investment, so I understand it well. Again, I can only confirm that it is not difficult for us, from a green point of view and from the point of view of the representation of national interests, to prevent our country, because we believe that there is not only a problem with transparency here, when it comes to the construction of a Russian nuclear power plant project, two new Russian nuclear power stations blocks; there are extremely serious issues and concrete issues. We are saying that nuclear energy is not cheap, it is not green and it is not safe, and this project would not in any way reduce Hungary's vulnerability to Russia, so it does not work to strengthen national sovereignty. We know that the construction of the new nuclear power plant is a project based on Russian credit, regardless of the lack of transparency, which is indeed a serious problem. We're gonna need Russian technology and Russian fuel. Not to mention that there are such serious issues in the air as the permanent disposal of high-activity nuclear waste anywhere in the world, and it has not been resolved in Hungary. So this project is extremely dangerous, unsubstantiated, and there is no way to strengthen Hungary's energy security. [[Noise.]] I would certainly like to mention, honourable Member, that we see the terrible attack that Russia has carried out on Ukraine, that aggression, that terrible war. We see the operations carried out by Russian troops beyond these horrors: on several occasions, they launched an attack on nuclear installations, launched an attack on Europe's largest nuclear power plant, carried out military action in the Chernobyl nuclear power plant area, and on several occasions attacked nuclear waste dumps with artillery or missiles. Here Attila Aszódi, a former government commissioner, himself, stated that the Russians had practically written themselves out of the nuclear energy issue, of their acceptable partners, as they ignored international law and ignored the issue of nuclear safety. Even Attila Aszódi asked how the Hungarian government, Fidesz-KDNP, wanted to enforce Hungarian interests when the Russians proved that they ignored nuclear safety. From this point of view, I think that I may have misinterpreted Jobbik's position, but what Jobbik demands, let's say, is transparency, and if the contracts were to be public about the new Paks II investment, we think that there are still serious differences of opinion between us, we still find this project unacceptable and that our energy dependence on Russia should be further strengthened with this new investment. As for Zsolt Gréczy or his comment on DK, I can apologize when I do something wrong, but this did not happen here. I have presented our party's opinion on the speech of a mayor, and I will always be open to everyone, either with DK or with representatives of our country, with representatives of any party, if matters need to be discussed. I think that there may be room for parliamentary debates, there must be no room for de-honestial yelling. In this respect, I will give respect to all actors, to all political actors, and I will continue to be open to personal discussion on all issues with representatives of different parties. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2022-06-08-76	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman István Apáti for two minutes, Mi Hazank. [[It's constant noise.]]
u2022-06-08-77	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Chief of Staff, He just made me speak again, even though I've tried to calm down or calm down here. Let's just stick to the fact that we're the greens. [[Moraj in the ranks of opposition parties.]] There are purples nearby. [[Gergely Harvesto: You're green in different colors!]] Moreover, we are not big city environmentalists, we are a party of rural environmentalists, real environmentalists. It would be worth seeing how many of the so-called environmentalists live in a family house, how many people farm, how many people are involved in nature, and how many people come, let's say, not entirely green, but asphalty environments, this could be mentioned separately. You're delirious, you're masturbating, the objective reality is misrepresented in your consciousness, that's what I see. For nuclear energy can be made safe, and we too would welcome it, Mr. Group Leader, that if, say, solar cells could be replaced by a hundred percent, electricity production could be solved. Unfortunately, this is not realistic; the conditions for this have not been set, neither on the budgetary side nor on the public's budget, are sufficient for a small fraction of it. Try to perform this, say Heves, Nógrád, Borsod or Szabolcs County, only then order money! So, in this respect, we agree, but it is not realistic. So you, too, are smarter than Boris Johnson, who recently declared the need to boost, speed up safe nuclear technology to ensure adequate energy production. So the standard of everything is lifelike, Mr. Group Leader, and unfortunately, what you are saying is not green, but rather a pink tale, a fantasy, at the moment it is far from Hungarian and European reality. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-06-08-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Congressman László Keresztes Lóránt.
u2022-06-08-79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I do not want to abuse the patience of the Parliament, but I think that there are important issues in the air here, so I would take the opportunity to speak, if the fellow Members would allow us to do so, if they would give us some silence, so that we could continue this important debate with Mr Apáti and with our country. Congressman! I am from the country, I live in Pécs, but in a village attached to Pécs, in Baranya County, I live in Patacs, a family house. I think we are trying to live in a relatively natural way, as far as possible in such a metropolitan agglomeration, by the way, in a rural area. [[13.00]] But by the way, I'm sure the congressman knows that this is the area where there was uranium mining in Hungary before. [[It's constant noise. Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: Shh!]] and the effects of this, the effects of which can never be eliminated, can still be seen to this day. So I think that all those who are a little more accepting of the use of nuclear energy, and all those who think this is acceptable to Mi Hungary, for example, should visit the Kővápőszőlős region and experience the fact that the use of nuclear energy, the two dirty ends, one of which, in a terrible way, is environmentally destructive, how uranium mining destroys our natural resources, and why it is never possible to restore the environmental destruction caused by uranium mining. So I am very happy to welcome the honourable Member, to present the effects that this has had on the natural environment, and I hope that this impact, this personal experience, will be a reason enough for our country to review its acceptance of nuclear energy. As far as the options are concerned, we are talking about the medium term, the current operating nuclear power plant blocks will work until 2036-37. Now, we have, from the government, a study or an intention to consider a further extension of operating time, which is obviously a technological issue, I would not go into, but we believe that there is plenty of room for manoeuvre, budget space, that based on renewable energy, in the longer term, in the medium term and in the longer term. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] We're gonna replace nuclear power. But I think it is right that we may discuss these important issues of national strategic importance, let us say, not as a sideline to a debate, but rather as appropriate proposals. [[It's constant noise. Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: Shh!]] I welcome you at the meeting of the Committee on Sustainable Development, and I think that we should conduct this debate on the basis of numbers, concrete documents, proposals and facts. And then perhaps we can have a positive impact on our Fidesz, KDNP fellow Members, and finally they will not support absurd decisions to ban wind energy in Hungary and limit the use of solar energy by various administrative means. I think that we will take a big step if we get to the point of ensuring Hungary's energy supply, energy security, based on the use of renewable energy, and decoupling ourselves from such investments, which would otherwise pose geopolitical, security, environmental and economic risks, such as Paks II. Project 3. Thank you. [[Applause in the lines of DK, MSZP and LMP.]]
u2022-06-08-80	Thank you very much. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I'll ask the Honourable Parliament if anyone else would like to comment. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The consolidated debate is closed. I give the floor to the author, Minister for Justice Judit Varga, who has 15 minutes and 34 seconds.
u2022-06-08-81	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. First, allow me to congratulate Mr Keresztes, too. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] in order to condemn Peter Niedermüller's invaluable thoughts, and I am pleased that this sentence is capable of knocking out security even within the opposition. I mean, let me have a little green color. In April, the Hungarian solar capacity exceeded 3,000 megawatts, so in agreement with Mr Keresztes, the green transition in Hungary is very important, we are practically ahead of the plans, as we are overachieving them on a pro rata basis. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, It has often been said in this debate about what this emergency is, and I believe that the emergency is not a statistical issue, but a matter of life, and the constitutional obligation and responsibility of the Hungarian government to declare an emergency when the country needs it to protect the country. The government, within the constitutional framework, also serves this constitutional framework during the emergency period, with the parliamentary majority taking its decisions together, there is nothing bypassed here, the aim-boundness, proportionality, the test of necessity is always valid, before each emergency measure is taken. I would also like to remind you that the Constitutional Court is guarding the protection of fundamental rights, running a very well-developed constitutional protection test for each of the submissions, and that the submissions are out of order and I would also like to draw attention to a time-limited mandate. It is also very important that the government has a continuous reporting obligation set out in this Act in Parliament, which was regularly performed by the government, the members of the government during the emergency announced during the outbreak of the Crown Virus; this is where they referred to the so-called production reports of Péter Szijjártó. But let me ask you this. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, in particular, there were gentlemen involved in the debate, so here is the distinction between which measures you do not like. [[Gergely Harvester: None of them!]] Do you not like the measure that hijacks the extra profit of multinational companies and taxes them, because they are the winners of this difficult situation from the economic side, whether you do not like this measure? [[György Balla: Shh!]] ; or do you not like the measure that sets official prices for fuel supply, thus protecting us from the HUF 800 gas oil price? Or do you object to the obligation to notify Hungarian food supply among emergency measures? So I guarantee you that all the measures that have been taken have protected Hungarian families, Hungarian pensions, full employment and jobs. I understand that, by the way, this is not the reflex on the left, and I also understand that you generally have the principle of bending to international mainstream, otherwise it is difficult and difficult, because there is enormous pressure, but we will never give in to this pressure, because the Hungarian government will always enforce the interests of the Hungarian nation, the Hungarian people, abroad and also internally. The danger of the oil embargo has recently been overcome. You almost managed to drop the nuclear bomb on the Hungarian economy thanks to your support here, but the Hungarian Prime Minister was able to prevent this. And so I ask who you're with, who you're rooting for: the Hungarian nation, the Hungarian families. [[László Varju intervenes.]] Or do Brussels bureaucrats who do not care at all about the irreparable adverse consequences of a rash, irresponsible decision have on the economy of a nation? In these days, the European Council was just ten days ago, where I managed to prevent that crazy decision from being played out with the idea of what would have happened if the Gyurcsány Party had sent a delegation to this council meeting. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Let's try it.]] And I think that the great old men, right, would have sent the representatives of the overseas department to the lead speaker, and the representatives of the Green Department of the Gyurcsány Party, and that they would have been able to do it in that very tense Brussels courtroom. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell. György Balla: Shh!]] Protect the Hungarian families? If I start from the very disgruntled, very sarcastic entries that we read on the Hungarian social media scenes when the Hungarian Prime Minister was fighting with Goliaths in Brussels [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] In order to protect the Hungarian families and to protect the reduction of the rent, you sarcastically insisted that it would fail. (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Whom do you represent? [[Intercoms from the opposition. Gergely Harvester: Not Sniper Gunnery!]] For whom do they act here in Parliament? I believe that the Hungarian left [[Interventions in opposition ranks. György Balla: Don't lie! At least don't lie.]] And God save the country from that situation [[The president's ringing the bell.]] In order for a Gyurcsány delegation to represent the Hungarian interests at any meeting in Brussels; the sentence itself is paradoxical; it would have dropped the atom bomb on the Hungarian economy with a musical word. And, fellow Members, the madness does not stop, the war goes on. [[László Varju: Anything else?]] Gas embargo and import charges are gathering above us, so we still need strong hands and sobriety. [[Dr. Richard Hörcsik: That's right!]] And this extra profit continues to grow, energy prices continue to climb up the world market [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] This is mainly due to Brussels' failed energy policy, its misguided sanctions policy, the war itself. So all I can promise the Hungarian people is that we will be there from the Hungarian government, in Brussels and at home, we will always protect pensions, Hungarian families, reduced rent, full employment. This bill serves this opportunity to act, so I ask the honourable fellow Members to put aside the debates that we have heard here for 25 minutes, which were not at all on the subject, to set aside these belvitas and try to vote in the interests of the Hungarian people; give the Hungarian Government the opportunity to defend the Hungarian people [[Laszlo Varju: Red card!]] always be able to act efficiently and quickly. And before you vote, ask yourself, who are you with, whose interests you represent? Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-08-82	I thank the Minister for her reply. Dear Parliament, Decisions will be taken on this day. [[13.10]] Dear Parliament, We will now continue our work with decisions. Please take your seats and check that your card has been placed in the voting machine. Dear Parliament, In line with our agreed agenda, decisions are now being taken to accept the responses to the interpellations made yesterday. Gergely Arató [[There's a grumble in DK's ranks.]] DK's representative, I/112. No response was accepted. I'll ask the National Assembly, you'll accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 113 votes in favour, 47 votes against and two abstentions. Z. Kárpát Dániel, representative of Jobbik, at I/68. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 113 votes in favour, 50 votes against, with two abstentions. Endre Tóth, representative of Momentum, I/128. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 112 votes in favour, 50 votes against, with two abstentions. Dezső gullible, representative of the MSZP, I/122. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 115 votes in favour, 51 votes against and one abstention. Foreman Novak, representative of our country, I/126. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 114 votes in favour, 50 votes against and two abstentions. Sándor Berki, representative of the Dialogue, I/115. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 115 votes in favour, 51 votes against and one abstention. Lóránt Keresztes, representative of LMP, I/124. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 115 votes in favour, 51 votes against and one abstention. Dear Parliament, The T/167 on the resolution of the consequences of the armed conflict in the neighbouring country and of the humanitarian disaster in Hungary follows. Final vote of bill No 1. I would remind you that, according to our decision yesterday, the bill will be dealt with in an exceptional procedure by the Parliament. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/167. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill by 116 votes in favour, 43 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is up to you to discuss and decide on immunity issues. I would like to inform you that a motion to suspend the immunity of Szabó Timea, Dialogue and Parliamentary Representative was received on 26 May 2022 15.Bpk.485/2022/3. No. 2 of Budapest II. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. He brought a private charge of defamation from the District Court. The president of the Parliament gave this to the immunity committee for examination. The immunity committee is H/204. Parliamentary Member Szabó Timea presented a proposal for a resolution on his immunity. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before taking a decision, I will give the floor to Mr János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee, who intends to justify the committee's proposal orally, within a five-minute time frame. Mr. President, you have the floor.
u2022-06-08-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, As has already been said here, the Budapest II. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. The District Court has appealed to the Parliament to request the suspension of the immunity of Mrs Szabó Timea, for the offence of defamation. The immunity committee was able to establish the following facts. On 23 March 2022, Congresswoman Timea Szabó published a video message on her Facebook page in which she made the following statements about B. B. [[A statement from the opposition: Doesn't he have a name?]] who is the former mayor of that district and also the candidate for Parliamentary Representative. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] So, I quote the revolutionary thoughts of the congresswoman: B.B. and the whole of Fidesz have again turned out to be the ones who commit pedophile crimes, the ones who cover these criminals. It's quite clear that B. B. is an accessory to this pedophile crime. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. These are the types of allegations which, of course, come here in the context of a private charge, and our committee has not given us any surprises at the moment, suggesting that we defend the Member's immunity in a private charge. That's what I've been telling you, and I'm telling you again, I've already told the new committee how to find a way to approach these questions more nuancedly in private cases, breaking up with previous practice. Here, a person and an entire community are accused of crimes of such weight that it is clearly untenable that we are not giving way to judicial justice. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Hanging!]] However, I think that, as it is a matter of representatives, we will have to rethink such matters by consensus in the Committee on immunity, and I will also attempt to do so, and if we do get something there, I will bring it to the House. As long as this cannot be done, we will follow the practice that Parliament has previously established: as a private case, it does not matter what we think about the matter in question now, we are unanimously suggesting that in the case in question, the Member's mandate Let's not suspend him. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Bence Rétvári's Mandate?]]
u2022-06-08-84	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mrs Szabó Timea if she wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[Szabó Timea:]] Yes, the floor is yours.
u2022-06-08-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It wasn't in the heat of the debate or in the heat of the campaign that this statement was made about us, and let's just say B. B. the failed mayor of Fidesz, Balázs Bús, I just don't know why you don't say his name. As I understand it, B. Balázs B., an alias, accuses me of two things: one is that I claimed that he had silenced a pedophile crime in an Óbuda kindergarten, and the other is that I said that there were pedophile criminals in Fidesz. [[László Kiss!]] Before I get to the details of this, let's see who Balázs Bluff is. He is the failed Fidesz mayor who turned out to have been in conflict with the Vice-President of the National Cultural Fund for a year, for which he received HUF 2 million a month, as well as the Óbuda representative. [[Bence Rétvári: Is that why you're lying about it?]] When this turned out to be a bust, he didn't give up his $2 million salary, he threw away the representation of the Óbuda people, he was obviously offended about it, and apparently he was the one who was running the lowest campaign in the 106th district, but I managed to beat him by more than 8 percentage points. After that, Balázs Bús even deleted his official Facebook page. [[A statement from the ruling parties: This will be in court.]] Now, let's get to the point. In March 2019, the police identified a kindergarten teacher and her partner who harassed and molested her own niece. [[13.20]] Turns out he wasn't just molesting his own niece, he was shooting pornographs of children in a kindergarten in Frog County. This woman, by the way, has been serving nine years of detention, and her partner has been serving 16 years of detention. When this came out, so the police found out that the head of the kindergarten sent Balázs Bús an e-mail as the maintenance officer of the kindergarten and the mayor of that time, a total of ten e-mails he didn't get an answer to. He asked the kindergarten Balázs Bús for help on what to do. Balázs Bús didn't answer any e-mails, but kept it a secret. He did cover it up. He didn't notify the parents, he didn't give protection to the kids, he signed a non-disclosure agreement with the employees. Contrary to the Child Protection Act 97, he did not notify the social services or the family and child protection authorities. He did not help the victims, nor did Balázs Bús inform the body of representatives as maintenance, even in a closed session. Well, what if it's not a cover-up? I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen: if your child goes to a kindergarten, which turns out to be a pedophile criminal, and you are not told, no one will tell, say, a mayor with opposition leadership, you will not be upset? Don't you think you have the right to protect your child, to know that there's a pedophile criminal out there in kindergarten? Yes, they think because children's safety is the most important thing. What did Balázs Blush do compared to that? [[Bence Rétvári: How did you vote in the referendum if protecting children is the most important thing?]] He kept it quiet and covered up this case. And why did you cover it up? Because in March 2019 the European Parliament campaign and the municipal campaign had already taken place, and he did not want to see his campaign cast a shadow on it. Compared to that, let's say he failed luck in the fall. But it went even further: when the new leadership called on the Hintalovon Foundation to start an immediate sacrifice and help the children, what did Balázs Bús do? [[Bence Rétvári: Right on them?]] Through the media, through your propaganda, you claimed that Hintalov was spreading LGBTQ propaganda. I do not think that Balázs Bús should be the one to file a complaint here, but that this was supposed to be a public offense. And let's look at the other incriminated sentence that there are pedophiles in the Fidesz. Well, let's look at Gábor Kaleta, who you secretly brought home, who was found out by Telex, the current Telex journalists, because they tried so hard to cover it up: he kept 20,000 pornographic footage of children on his computer, and he was punished for 540,000 forints compared to that. Tivadar Fohsz, ex XVII. District Fidesz Vice Mayor took pornographic footage of his foster daughter. László Tímár VII. District, former Fidesz councilman taught at a school in Pest County and had sex with a 13-year-old girl. Then where are the pedophile criminals? Fidesz, please. [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Therefore, we must not press charges, but protect the children! Where is the proposal that Máté Kocsis promised us? [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You didn't vote for it!]] About victim protection? Nowhere. We submitted one together with the opposition, which also punishes silence. Compared to that, you voted him out without a debate. Thank you. [[Applause from the lines of DK, Dialogue, MSZP, Momentum and LMP.]]
u2022-06-08-86	Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I would like to remind you that the committee has taken a position that the Member's immunity will not be suspended by the Parliament. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to suspend the immunity of the Parliamentary Congressman Szabó Timea. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament suspended the immunity of Szabó Timea by 118 votes in favour, 49 against, with one abstention. Sorry, you didn't suspend him. [[It's a lot of noise. Interviews from the ruling parties: Suspended, suspended!]] I repeat, I repeat: The Parliament did not suspend the immunity of Szabó Timea by 118 votes in favour, 49 votes against. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties. Defiance, and then applause in the ranks of the opposition. Ancient Novak: He can't read or write.]] So, Honourable Parliament! I repeat, by 118 votes in favour, 49 votes against, with 1 abstention, Parliamentary Representative Szabó Timea You've suspended your right. [[Uproar, interruptions. Dr. Brenner Koloman: Really? It's invalid!]] Dear Parliament, [[Constant noise, the president's ringing.]] I would like to inform you that Akopjan Nikogos is a minority advocate [[György Balla reporting.]] Opinion on the waiver of immunity was received on 23 May 2022 18 B.204/2019/316. on the prosecution of crimes against the Order of Elections of the Metropolitan Tribunal. The president of the Parliament gave this to the immunity committee for examination. [[György Balla here: Order of business, order of business, Mr President. Szabolcs Szabó: What day is it? Let's start there. Dr. István Simicskó: Order of business, order of business! Dr. János Latorcai reporting. He's the one who's apologizing.]] The immunity committee is H/2003. The Commission has presented a proposal for a decision. [[It's constant, it's loud.]] [[For signal:]] Dear Parliament, Vice-President János Latorcai asked for the floor in order of business. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
u2022-06-08-87	Mr President, I am fully aware that there is not a single Member in a position to criticise the President in accordance with the rules of the house, and that is not my intention, but that a resolution must be able to be published and the situation must be established in the publication. And in the case of Congresswoman Szabó Timea, the Parliament has suspended her immunity. I would ask Mr President to declare accordingly the outcome of the previous vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties and the Momentum.]]
u2022-06-08-88	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for your comment. According to the record, I repeated the decision that, in exactly the same way as the vice-president's position, the immunity waiver had been notified. It's in the record. [[Dr. István Apáti: You said voting rights! First of Novak: Vote for it! Continued noise in opposition benches.]] Dear Parliament, We will continue our work and we will repeat this vote to ensure that everyone is finally calmed down. [[It's grumpy. Kálmán Olga: Why, why? György Balla reporting.]] Dear Parliament, Director György Balla, please. [[13.30]]
u2022-06-08-89	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I take the liberty of making that suggestion... [[The congressman's mic falls on the floor.]] Sorry, the microphone. [[Noise.]] Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make the suggestion that we do not repeat the vote, because it has been achieved in order, its outcome is quite obvious, it is quite clear. When Mr President announced the result, there was a slip of the word, because Congresswoman Timea Szabó suspended her immunity, not her right to vote. So I would respectfully ask Mr President to repeat the announcement, and to make this obvious fact clear to the protocol. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties and the Momentum.]]
u2022-06-08-90	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Therefore, repetition of the decision It's happening. I declare the resolution: Parliament suspended the immunity of Szabó Timea by 118 votes in favour, 49 against, with one abstention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties and the Momentum. The Foreman of Novak, Bravo!]] Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that there has been a motion for the waiver of the immunity of Akopjan Nikogos ethnicity advocate 18 May 2022.B.204/2019/316. on the prosecution of crimes against the Order of Elections of the Metropolitan Tribunal. The president of the Parliament gave this to the immunity committee for examination. The immunity committee shall be H/203. Mr Akopjan Nikogos presented a proposal for a decision on his immunity as a national minority advocate. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before taking a decision, I will give the floor to János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee, who intends to give oral reasons for the committee's proposal in a five-minute time frame. Mr. President, you have the floor.
u2022-06-08-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The assessment of this issue is consistent in Parliament's practice. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the case number you're getting here is a 2019 case number from the Metropolitan Tribunal, but behind this is a public prosecutor's case, so here sometime, years ago, the Metropolitan Public Prosecutor's Office filed charges against an election crime, and this procedure is under Article IV. His current advocate is the accused. This case has already been before the Parliament: the former Armenian advocate was also subject to this procedure. Here, the judge rightly observed that there is a new advocate for the Armenian nationality, who has immunity, so he is now requesting the suspension of immunity. As I have already mentioned, the advocate for this case is the IV. He's a defendant of the order. The case dates back to 2014 to the then national elections of the local government. According to the indictment, what we could determine from the facts, there were several, including the fourth. The accused also sought homeless persons to confess to themselves as Armenians, register themselves, submit nominations to their candidates, and participate in the Armenian national elections to which they were otherwise transported. This constitutes a factual description of this crime. So, like I said, it's a public prosecutor's case. The Parliament has already observed this before, so as we are talking about a public case in the case of the new Armenian advocate, we propose to the National Assembly, the Committee on Patents unanimously, to you that, as a matter of public indictment, the immunity of the spokesperson should be suspended in the case in question. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-08-92	Dear Parliament, The ethnic advocate Akopjan Nikogos is not in the Chamber. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I would like to remind you that the committee has taken a position that the MP's immunity will be suspended by the Parliament. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to suspend the immunity of Akopjan Nikogos, a minority advocate. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament suspended the immunity of the national minority advocate Akopjan Nikogos with 169 votes in favour, unanimously. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that there has been a motion for the waiver of immunity from Bence Tordai, Dialogue and Parliamentary Representative 12 June 2022.486/2022/7. No. 2 of Budapest II. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. He brought a private charge of defamation from the District Court. The president of the Parliament gave this to the immunity committee for examination. The Committee shall be H/205. Parliamentary Member Bence Tordai presented a proposal for a resolution on his immunity. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before taking a decision, I will give the floor to János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee, who intends to give oral reasons for the committee's proposal in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2022-06-08-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, As has been said, Budapest II. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. The District Court shall appeal to the Parliament for the suspension of the immunity of Mr Tordai, on the ground of the offence of defamation. During the presentation of the facts, I can tell the Parliament that the events took place here on Facebook, during the election campaign, not with revolutionary heat, but consciously, carefully. Congressman Hadházy is commenting on his Facebook page, and Congressman Tordai is joining in and giving his opinion. Mr Tordai, Member, will say the following. My fellow Members will recognise an important element of the election campaign on the part of the opposition, because Mr Tordai put it this way:. It is quite shocking that Putin's service, in betraying Hungarian interests, involves a whole fidesz network, including the Fidesz noodle lawyers in Buda. Annex II is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. We will not tolerate it. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Obviously, the person affected these statements. On his Facebook page, Congressman Tordai continued these reasonings. He also said that Putin had a paycheck for the Fidesz lawyer, so the private accuser. The immunity committee, following our previous practice, is proposing to the Parliament that the parliamentary assembly should not suspend the immunity of the Member in the case in question.
u2022-06-08-94	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I will ask Congressman Bence Tordai if he would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] You have the floor in a five-minute time frame. [[Noise.- Laszlo Szászfalvi: Kindergarten! Play in the sandbox.]]
u2022-06-08-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, The sensitivity of fidesz politicians is very impressive, especially during the campaign period. So, once you've been able to win an election by making one false claim for weeks on public money on every channel there is, it's a sign that the opposition would take the country to war... [[There's a lot of noise, there's an uproar in the benches of the governing parties. Intercoms from the pro-government benches: That's right! That's right. Bence Rétvári: You said it yourself.]] It is still a lie, or whether we personally take Hungarian soldiers to Ukraine another massive lie, and then, when opposition representatives say the obvious truths, they run to the court. Well, it's quite charming, really, it's almost happening to my heart, although there was no initials here for the poor offended Fidesz politician; I'm not going to mention his name either; I don't think you're necessarily worthy of his name in the walls of this house, but let's see what the Putin Hanging Fidesz lawyer does to spite you. [[13.40]] He says [[Bence Rétvári: Is this part of the trench burial?]] That to him the offensive, painful, that I called him a noodle lawyer. The case we are talking about is relatively simple, I think it is well known to all of you: the case of the renovation of the three-way cars, which turned out to be not a renovation, but a re-production of 70-year-old models for Hungary, was salted on Budapest. This has damaged Hungarian taxpayers, as it has cost many billion HUF extra costs, and it has also damaged those who travel in Budapest, because instead of traveling on comfortable, modern, energy-saving, air-conditioned subway cars, these 70-year-old Soviet demolition runaways remain. This business needed a large enough network to push it across the country and push it through the capital. Then, when my fidesz opponent received the task of proving that all this was done perfectly legitimately, that this public procurement couldn't have been better than this, he did this task, in a long opinion he saved his bread-payers, but without adding his name. Do you know how this scandal turned out? That someone recognized his signature on a leaked piece of paper. There was only the name of the law firm, and my fidesz opponent's name wasn't there, so it had to be recognized by his signature. He wasn't proud of that. That's typical noodle lawyer mentality and noodle lawyer behavior, which is why I said noodle lawyer. It's also very charming, as long as it's... [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] He's a barrister, yeah. It was also very charming, as he explained in his pleading why he was not a hired man for Putin. In particular, he describes that Vladimir Vladimir Vladimirovich did not receive any money from Putin or his direct colleagues for this activity which was rather offensive to Hungarian national interests. Obviously, this is not the way we use the term in politics, but we see that this transaction was in the best interests of the Putin empire, and if someone is in Putin's best interests and gets paid for it, it may not be from Putin, it may not be from a Russian citizen, but from his own law firm that employs him, it may still serve Putin's interests for money. [[Bence Rétvári: Is that Gyurcsány?]] We can call him Putin's hire. So our conscience in this area is perfectly clear, and the fact is that the lawyer knows this, because based on previous practice, he had a right to expect that in a private charge, immunity would not be granted and therefore he would not have to defend his alleged right in court. If you feel so insulted in your honor, and if you really wanted this case to go down, you're gonna start a civil suit. From now on, of course, in view of the outcome of the previous vote, although we cannot be entirely sure, after your pathetic dog comedy, what the House has decided, what the House has decided, the House has decided, it seems that you are increasingly inclined to break the customary right not to give up the immunity of the pro-government representatives, but to grant the immunity of opposition representatives. For my part, I'd be most pleased to tell the court that it's worth calling a fidesz noodle lawyer a fidesz noodle lawyer in accordance with reality, and you as Putin's tenants are worth it. Calling him a Putin hire. So if you're gonna send me to court for this, then I'm gonna have the greatest pleasure and peace of mind. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-08-96	Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I would like to remind you that the committee has taken a position that the Member's immunity will not be suspended by the Parliament. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to suspend the immunity of Parliamentary Congressman Bence of Torda. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not suspend the immunity of Bence Tordai by 13 votes in favour, 145 against and 7 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It follows in line with the 11/2022 on the establishment of committees, the election of members and officials of the Parliament. S/202 amending Decision S/202 The decision to make a proposal to the European Parliament and to the Council shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Regulation. The proposal put forward by the President was made available on the website. I would ask Mr Attila Gelencsér to explain the contents of the personal proposal.
u2022-06-08-97	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 11/2022 on the establishment of committees, election of members and officials of the Parliament OGY Decision [[hereinafter referred to as "OGY Decision']] point 1 is amended as follows: The National Assembly to the Committee on Sustainable Development Dr. Zsófia Koncz, Fidesz, to the place of his former membership Zsolt Becsó, Fidesz, to the Economic Committee dr. János Kiss, Fidesz, instead of Péter Cseresnyés, Fidesz, Mónika Bartos, Fidesz, instead of Károly Kontrat, Fidesz, Dr. Gyula Budai, Fidesz, instead István Németh Szilárd, Fidesz, Dr. János Kiss, Fidesz, instead of Dr. Lajos Mészáros, Fidesz, Dr. Péter Hoppál, Fidesz, former member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Sándor Bodó, Fidesz, László Vigh, Fidesz, Dr. Tünde Szabó, Fidesz, Dr. Péter Hoppál, Fidesz, former member of the Committee on People's Welfare, Bálint Nagy, Fidesz, László Horváth, Fidesz, László Tasó, Fidesz, instead of Mónika Bartos, Fidesz, to the Committee on Enterprise Development, Péter Ovádi, Fidesz, instead of Zsolt Szabó, Fidesz and the member of the Committee. 2. Point 2 of the OGY Decision is amended as follows: Parliament to the Legislative Committee László Horváth, Fidesz, instead of Dr. János Kiss, Fidesz, Dr. Lajos Mészáros, Fidesz, instead of Tibor Pogácsás, Fidesz, Attila Sztojka, Fidesz, instead Norbert Erdős, Fidesz, elected him as a member of the committee. 3. Section 4 of the OGY Decision is amended as follows: Parliament is hereby amended to the Economic Committee by Mr Sándor F. Kovács, instead of Péter Cseresnyés, Fidesz, Mónika Bartos, Fidesz, instead of Károly Kontrat, Fidesz, to the Committee of Justice, Dr. Judit Bertalan, Fidesz, instead of László Vigh, Fidesz, to the Committee of Budget, Dr. Lajos Szűcs, Fidesz, instead of F. Sándor Kovács, Fidesz, to the Committee of Culture Dr. Péter Hoppál, Gabriella Sándor Bodó, Fidesz, to the Committee of National Solidarity, Zoltán Bóna, Fidesz, instead of Zsigó, Fidesz, to the Committee of People's Welfare, Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi, Fidesz, instead of Fidesz, Fidesz, Fidesz, Fidesz, Fidesz, Fidesz, Fidesz, Fidesz, Fidesz, Fidesz, Zs, Zsz, Zsz, Zsz, Zsz, Zsz, Zsz, Zsz, Zsz, Zsz, Zsz, Zsz, Zsz, Zsz, Zsz, Zsz, Zsz, Zsz, Félélélélélélélyz, Fész, Vépálsz, Fő, Fő, Fő, Fő, Fedő, Fő, Fedő, Fégágágz, Fégz, Fégz, Fégz, Fégz, Fégz, Fégáló, Fégáló, Fégáló, Fég, Fégz, Fégz, Fégz, Fégz, Fégz, Fégz, Fégz, Fégz, Fégz, Fégz, Fégz, Fégz, Fégz, Fégz, Fégál 4. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption. Budapest, 08 June 2022 László Fat
u2022-06-08-98	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, First, on the basis of points 1, 2 and 4 of the proposal, we decide on the election of the members of the committee, and then, according to point 3 of the proposal, we decide on Commission officials from among the members of the committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament that S/202. The Committee shall elect the members of the Committees by adopting points 1, 2 and 4. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected the members of the committees with 164 votes in favour, no votes against, with 1 abstention. It is now S/202 of the members of the Committee. The Commission's officials will be elected in accordance with point 3 of the proposal. The election of candidates to become officials shall be decided individually. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Péter Cseresnyés as Vice-President of the Economic Commission. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament unanimously elected Péter Cseresnyés as Vice-President of the Economic Committee with 165 votes in favour. [[13.50]] I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Károly Kontra as Vice-President of the Defence and Police Committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected Károly Kontra, with 162 votes in favour, unanimously, as Vice-President of the Defence and Police Committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect László Vigh as Vice President of the Justice Committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament elected László Vigh, acting unanimously, with 164 votes in favour, as Vice-President of the Judicial Committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Sándor F. Kovács as Vice-President of the Committee on Budgets. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament elected Sándor F. Kovács, with 163 votes in favour, unanimously as Vice-President of the Committee on Budgets. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Sándor Bodó as Vice-President of the Cultural Committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected Sándor Bodó as Vice-President of the Cultural Committee with 163 votes in favour, unanimously. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Róbert Zsigó as Vice-President of the Committee on National Inclusion. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament elected Róbert Zsigó, with 163 votes in favour, unanimously, as Vice-President of the Committee on National Inclusion. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect László Horváth as Vice-President of the People's Welfare Committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament elected László Horváth with 164 votes in favour as Vice-President of the People's Welfare Committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect László Tasó as Vice-President of the Committee on Enterprise Development. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament elected László Tasó, with 163 votes in favour, unanimously as Vice-President of the Committee on Enterprise Development. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Tibor Pogácsás as Vice-President of the Legislative Committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected Tibor Pogácsás, with 162 votes in favour, unanimously, as Vice-President of the Legislative Committee. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the decisions. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. (Sunning: 13.53 13.57 President: István Jakab Note: Dr. András Aradszki and Sándor Berki)
u2022-06-08-99	Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. There will be a general debate on the bill on the amendment of individual laws in the fields of defence, economic development and government administration until closure. The government referral is T/166. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Balázs Fürjes, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2022-06-08-100	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, As we have said a few times, and unfortunately it seems that we have to say it for a while, even for a longer time we live in this Parliament, a time of danger. We can identify at least five plus one serious threat, which stands at the same time, and represent a serious threat to the citizens and countries of Europe and Hungary, together. Armed conflict, war in our neighbourhood; economic crisis, partly due to the war, may have started, partly before it started, we can think primarily of inflation; food and energy security difficulties and sooner or later difficulties in drinking water in certain parts of the world; obviously also due to the war, the economic crisis, security of supply challenges: migration has already been under a migration pressure for years, an increased migratory pressure, and now it is increasing and epidemics on top of all this; and if that is not enough, even Brussels, the European Union's failed sanctions policy. The very simple truth that the European Union often fails to take into account is that a sanction is useful if it causes more disadvantage to the person it is aimed at than those who impose it. At times, the EU succeeds in punishing itself, the citizens of Europe and Hungary, as much as the Russians. [[14.00]] In such a situation, there is a clear need for nation states and government policies on the part of Europe's national governments, capable of protecting its citizens and the security of its citizens. The Union will not do the nation state tasks for us. There are three very clear conditions for the capacity to act: authorisation from voters, democratic mandate, or political legitimacy, I believe that Hungary's citizens gave this to the Government of Hungary on 3 April, sovereignty, that is, independence, its own space of movement, which requires both will and power, and finally, political governance and a well-organized state are needed. If we want to playfully recall the Alliance of Free Democrats who died in politics a few years ago, then we can say that we need to know, dare, do. They wrote this on posters, and we practice it. So, there are complex issues here, we need to find solutions that benefit Hungary and the Hungarians in the midst of many aspects, conflicting and often extinguishing partial truths. In contrast to the external effects, because these crises are primarily affecting Hungary from the outside there is a very clear principle followed by the civilian government for 12 years: we ride the favorable external waves to give Hungary momentum, we block the negative external waves, we dampen them, we stop them, because we believe in the truth that no one can do anything, but everyone can do something. In politics, especially when you're on the government, you're rarely completely helpless. We're not used to living with that excuse. In times of crisis, and this bill is aimed at this, and on this basis we need flexibility, a strong and rapid response capacity from the government and the state to address the challenges. It is the role of the legislator to find flexibility, including, where appropriate, the use of special instruments and the balance between the rule of law, parliamentary control and compliance with democratic standards. So a balance between flexibility and the rule of law is what is needed. To the best of our knowledge, this bill achieves this balance. Dear House, I think it is necessary to stress that it cannot be underlined enough: we are living in the age of danger. Our neighbor has been at war for months, and we do not know how much longer, and we Hungarians are interested in peace, for which we are doing everything we can. That is why we say that it is in Hungary's clear interest to stay out of this war. As Prime Minister said, Hungary is on the border of worlds between East and West, North and South. We don't understand wars around here, and they're not fighting for our own good. It usually happens that whoever wins, we're lost. Central Europe is just a chessboard for the great powers of the world, and for them Hungary is just a puppet. It's in our interest not to be a pawn sacrifice in someone else's war. We cannot gain anything in this war, but we can lose everything, as Prime Minister said. In this situation, a responsible government must be prepared for any eventuality. The bill before us will help us to do this. In December 2020, in the order of the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law and in the year 2021 on the coordination of defence and security activities, XCIII. A new constitutional basis has been laid down by law in the special legal order situations and in the legislation surrounding the order of public tasks for defence and security purposes. This legal environment has created a comprehensive regulatory framework that, according to current expectations, has given the relevant powers to the current executive authority to deal with crisis situations immediately and to protect them as quickly and effectively as possible. The war in our neighbourhood is a constant threat to Hungary, based on a new experience and so far. That is why, or in line with this, the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law has led to a reduction in the number of special legal situations in three cases instead of the previous six. As a new and main pillar of a coordinated defence activity, legislation also introduced a legal institution and a procedural regime for crisis management in peacetime. These crises, especially the war, put our physical security at risk and threaten the energy supply and financial security of the economy and families. Therefore, the 10th amendment of the Fundamental Law adopted in May this year did not only complement and regulate the situations of the emergency situation as a special legal order with cases of armed conflict, war situation or humanitarian disaster in the neighbouring country, but also brought forward the entry into force of the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law originally planned for 1 July 2023 and amended it to 1 November 2022. This, in turn, places faster legislative tasks on the House, which are the tasks which the government intends to fulfil by presenting the bill. It has become necessary to harmonise various sectoral laws, to touch Btk. The purpose of the bill is also to amend the laws concerning government administration in line with the government structure now adopted, and the aim is that the bill amends the salary of the Prime Minister in order to obtain equal remuneration for the two dignitys of Hungary under public law, two out of three, the President of Parliament and the Prime Minister. It is important, in particular, for the public to note that according to the current legislation, the salary of the Prime Minister is not paid by the Government Administration Act, or Kit. , but also the Act on Central Government Administrations and the Status of Government Members and State Secretarys, i.e. the Act on the Status of the Government. It's regulated. What is important information, perhaps, in addition to these legal facts, is that the salary of the Prime Minister has remained unchanged over the past decade, while the fees of Members of Parliament and other public dignitaries have increased in parallel to the performance of the Hungarian economy, and Kit. The reforms introduced by the Central Administration did not affect it either. For this reason, this regulation also revises the rules on the Prime Minister's fee and proposes to shift the Kit. the scope of this Regulation. Let's talk about this briefly, if there are any questions or comments about this, then I have prepared for a longer period of time the most exciting provision perhaps on certain surfaces: is it right to settle the Prime Minister's remuneration after 11 years? Apples are worth comparing to apples. Hungary is one of the 27 Member States of the European Union. It also follows that there are 27 prime ministers in the European Union, and it is perhaps best to match the salaries of the prime ministers of the Hungarian and the other 26 Member States. Let us see where we stand today with the remuneration of the Hungarian Prime Minister. Today, there are four prime ministers from all 27 Member States who earn less, and the remuneration of 22 prime ministers from 22 countries is higher, mostly much higher than the remuneration of the Hungarian Prime Minister. Today, the Hungarian Prime Minister's monthly gross remuneration is HUF 1.5 million. Let's look at the neighboring Austria. There the Federal Chancellor earns HUF 9 million gross, six times as much as the Prime Minister of Hungary neighbouring Austria. [[14.10]] Let's watch a Visegrád country. We are also talking about a state and a country comparable to Hungary in the size of the Czech Republic. The Prime Minister of the Czech Republic earns HUF 4 million a month, 2.5 million more than the Hungarian Prime Minister who earns HUF 1.5 million gross. If the Parliament accepts the proposal before the House, the Hungarian Prime Minister will still earn less than the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic and will earn much less than the Chancellor of Austria, the increased remuneration of the Prime Minister will not reach half of the Austrian Chancellor's remuneration. One or two more examples, with your permission. This example is used in football games: when Fradi plays most in the national club team Champions League or the European League, they compare the value of the frames because they compete in the same league, and yet how much the players earn. At a time when the Hungarian Prime Minister is fighting in the Council of Europe, where he is fighting with the other prime ministers, shoulder to shoulder, against one, he often finds himself against the President of the Council of Europe and the President of the European Commission. The President of the Council of Europe today, both of them are actually earning a small difference of HUF 13-12 million each, not two in total, one by one. So the President of the Commission and the President of the Council, Charles Michel and Ursula von der Leyen, each earn 13-12 million forints, eight times as much as the current Hungarian Prime Minister, who often enforces Hungary's interests against them. It may be worth mentioning that the last number of prime ministers is that, as it stands today, one neighbouring country, not only Austria as a neighbouring state, but Slovakia, the Prime Minister of a country smaller than Hungary, also earns about HUF 1 million more than the Hungarian Prime Minister. I'm gonna stop making comparisons here, but I'm ready. With all due respect, I think I say to the opposition parties, so if we want to agree on what the remuneration of Hungarian politicians and group leaders looks like, here are the data and, if necessary, we can also make that comparison. The Prime Minister's remuneration will pass the test. Dear Parliament, Despite the crises and threats to our country, we now have every opportunity to make decisions that are essential and beneficial for the country in the long term. With all due respect, ladies and gentlemen, who are pro-government and opposition representatives, let us work together to adopt this bill for our country. I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-08-101	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Pupils, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2022-06-08-102	[[The mic's not working.]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State,
u2022-06-08-103	My apologies, Congressman. Is your card in place? Because they don't really hear it. I'll wait for you, take your time.
u2022-06-08-104	[[Dr. Gábor Presses will insert your card.]] Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, In my speech, I would like to point out, in the context of the bill that is the subject of the general debate, what are its essential elements and why the regulation is justified. As Minister of State has said, the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law and XCIII of 2021 on the coordination of defence and security activities. Act No. 5 introduced a new constitutional basis for special legal order situations and legislation relating to the system of public tasks for defence and security purposes. This new legal environment regulates crisis management and special legal order measures, introducing a new legal institution for coordinated defence activities. As a reminder, this legal institution aims to ensure a common, coordinated use of the forces for the protection and security of the country in serious, prolonged crisis situations requiring government intervention. The new legislation also made it necessary to amend the sectoral legislation accordingly. The primary objective of the bill is therefore to ensure coherence between the legislation which will enter into force on 1 November 2022, which is necessary as a result of changes in the basic laws and laws relating to crisis management and the special legal order, as well as the coordination of defence and security activities. The bill also ensures the transfer of the necessary technical changes in the context of economic development and, finally, the amendment of the law on government administration, in line with the new governance structure established after the election of 3 April 2022. In addition, the bill includes changes to the legislation of the land tax in respect of free ports used for loading and unloading commercial goods. It also directs the legal position of movable and immovable property arising from the property previously transferred to the Orthodox Exarchate of Hungary by the Universal Patriarchate of Constantinople. The purpose of the amendment to Act C of 1990 on Local Taxes is not to include a water-covered pool that constitutes a river-related water area and is used as a free port for the purpose of loading and unloading commercial goods. As a result of this amendment, the water-covered pool area used as a free port for the purpose of loading and unloading commercial goods forming the river-related water area will not fall under the payment of the land tax. LXVI of 1992 on the registration of citizens' personal data and addresses is amended. Law. The ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law provides for a state of war instead of a special legal rule of emergency. In view of this, it is necessary, inter alia, to transfer this concept in the law on the registration of citizens' personal data and address. CCXXXVII of 2013 on credit institutions and financial institutions In the context of the amendment of Law 182/202 on the tasks and powers of the members of the Government, it should be mentioned. The Minister for Economic Development is a member of the Government responsible for regulating the financial, capital and insurance markets. He will be responsible for the representation of the State in contractual relations with international financial institutions, the preparation of contracts, the preparation of legislation on financial and capital market actors. From the so-called salad bill before us, I have mentioned, as an example, the regulations that I have highlighted above, with the aim of recalling the legislative objective, including alignment with the changed governance structure, the legal transfers, and, in fact, the fact that a number of areas are regulated by this bill, which, if you like, is not closely linked to security, but which is important in areas that have not been regulated so far. I am thinking again about the land tax legislation. [[14.20]] The amendments of a legal and legal harmonisation nature are mainly CXL of 2021 on Defence and the Hungarian Defence Corps, which will enter into force on 1 November 2022. It's a matter of law. However, the bill contains several amendments and clarifications, in particular XCIII of 2021 on the coordination of defence and security activities. in the context of the application of law. In addition, without the need for completeness, as Mr Secretary of State has said, it also covers rules concerning the functioning of health care, public administration, Magyar Posta, provisions on the criminal code, political and governmental relations, and regulations on organisations carrying out security and security processing. The proposal clearly covers the whole of the legal system and covers 55 pieces of legislation. By doing so, it points out that security is not an internal matter of a sector; its maintenance, protection requires cooperation and active involvement from all of us. In my view, the adoption of the proposal will ensure that the legislative intentions set out in the introduction are met, and, above all, the reform process for the protection and security regulation of our country will be complete. Following the publication of the law, it will be possible for organisations involved in defence and security management to clarify the detailed rules and procedures in their field and to prepare substantially for its implementation until the law enters into force. With the regulation, I believe that the security of our country, the protection of citizens, and the 21st century will be strengthened. This will enable better government action to be taken against new challenges in the second decade of the 20th century. I believe, therefore, that the bill should be supported and supported by all Members of Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for your attention and support the adoption of the bill. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-08-105	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2022-06-08-106	Ladies and gentlemen, We talk here in Parliament about salad laws, this is a particularly popular genre of the Fidesz government, but I have to say that this is the salad of all salads. I could also say that it's not just a salad anymore, it's like we're getting a poppy dough mixed on a plate, a French salad and a few more raisins sprinkled on it. [[You like slop!]] Speak for yourself, Congressman. So what I must say, ladies and gentlemen of the House, is that this bill, if anything, is indeed when we are trying to carry out a debate on an inappropriate subject, but I am trying to do so. And, of course, to add how much the authority of the House is respected by the government and Fidesz, which is usually spoken about here, shows that all this bill of modest paragraph 133, if we have calculated correctly, was submitted on the Friday before Pentecost by starting its trial on Wednesday. Obviously, we've read and devoted our energy to it, but, to put it mildly, it doesn't belong to well-founded and thought-out legislative work. And I'll bet you anything right now that, on Friday, the Legislative Committee will once again correct the errors that have been included in the bill in a series of amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll start with the raisins. 'Cause who gets raisins in it? I know that Mr Secretary of State has already threatened me gently here, and I would also like to respond to that. But I have to say that there are parts in this bill that you have not dared to submit in the previous salad law relating to government administration, because this is already the second salad law on this subject, namely the rules on the payment of the Prime Minister, the members of the government and the State Secretarys. The amazing, honourable House is that you consider it most important to raise the Prime Minister's salary to a multiple, when we are talking here in Parliament about what austerity measures are coming, how difficult the budget is, who has to tax everyone, who has to withdraw support from everyone. The Prime Minister doesn't seem to be in this circle. We understand, of course, because we can see from the declarations of assets that the Prime Minister is very poor in his own statement, but he also has a few billionaires in his family and a few billionaires in his friends. Perhaps for a few years he would have survived with their support and loan, and then I wouldn't talk about knowing, of course, that a good part of that fortune is actually under the control of the Prime Minister to put it mildly. So, ladies and gentlemen, this is a classified case of insolence, and I have nothing else to say. And, my dear Secretary of State, it comes with international comparisons that, for example, in Austria, the Chancellor's salary is six times higher. You know, Mr. Secretary, in Austria, a teacher starting his career earns 40,000 euros a year. According to a 2020 research in Hungary, he made 7700 euros at the time, but as you managed to beat the forint to the ground, this is probably less in euro now. This is a country, Mr. Secretary of State, where early school teachers start just above the minimum wage for skilled workers. I've always been accused, and it's not wrong that I know the problems of teachers better than I do, and I'm better at it. This is a country in which social workers who deal with the weakest are still earning a very significant proportion of the minimum wage after twenty to thirty years of employment. This is a country, my dear Secretary of State, where only statistics pay a lot of people, while there are a lot of people who work for minimum wage or around the minimum wage, who, by the way, are taxed. And if you look at how social workers, turning workers, or hairdressers are looking for you in Austria, you will see that there are four times five times six times the difference. You know, if you're gonna help them, you're gonna have to come here and tell them that the Prime Minister's salary needs to be raised to the Austrian level. Dear Secretary of State, You know, our job here in Parliament is to deal with people's problems. And it begins with the fact that once their wages have been helped, the Prime Minister's wages will be dealt with. And I know you'll tell me how much the DK representatives are making. It's just, you know, we didn't support that proposal either, because we didn't agree with it then. I must tell you, therefore, that this proposal is outrageous and cynical, and your argument is, to say the least, facial toaster in this matter. But speaking of wages, I will be wondering if the Hungarian Government will support the introduction of a European minimum wage in the European Council. When it comes not to the Prime Minister's wages, but to the wages of the least wanted Hungarians, where will the government stand? Then we'll find out whose side you're on. But of course, I understand the enthusiasm of the Secretary of State, because there is another element of this proposal, which is about the abolition of the existing wage regulation for ministers and undersecretaries of state, and from this point on, the Prime Minister will decide personally, in one person, how much wages will be paid in the government. I understand that in such a situation, although I can see that the Secretary of State is certainly doing so voluntarily and singing, it also means that from now on, the Prime Minister will decide, based on loyalty and political performance, who will be rewarded and who will be punished within the government, and the ceiling will be the starry sky in these payments. Then let's move on to the less outrageous elements of the bill, I say poppy seed noodles. This is a relatively bearable part of the proposal, which should be discussed in substance, of course, not with an emergency hearing, which is unacceptable in itself, since it is proposals that fundamentally affect fundamental rights, and these are matters dealing with defence legislation in line with the new basic legislation. Some of these are technical proposals, but others go far beyond that, for example providing wide access to citizens' data, while the State itself refuses to provide data. [[14.30]] The regulation that pushed the deadline for public information to be made public has just been extended, while the state would like to know everything about citizens. Such regulations remain full of such provisions. On the health side of the proposal, my colleague, Zoltán Komáromi, who is far more understanding of this, will speak, but I must add that militarisation is also the main direction in this area. Finally, here's the French salad: customary, personalized laws. My fellow Member is very enthusiastic about the fact that, from now on, free marinas no longer count on the land and are not subject to the land tax. Could you also tell us for whose sake this provision of law is made? I don't know if they told you they wouldn't tell us, the opposition. If you find out, please tell me who will save a considerable amount of money with this kind of regulation. One thing we know is that in this regulation, we see that there is no salad law that doesn't include some kind of ecclesiastical benefit. This is happening right now, and in this bill there is also a regulation on the actual past asset allocation that facilitates the situation of the recipient church. So, in conclusion, here's what I can tell you. The part of the bill concerning government salaries and public administration is unacceptable, unsupportable, outrageous. We cannot support part of the salad law, since it is proposals that are flattened, airborne, possibly of individual interest. Finally, the defence side could talk in substance if this were a separate bill, there would be eligible parts in it, but since . eats it, does not eat it, we received this bill on a different basis, and therefore, of course, we have no other option but to reject it all. Once again, there are some outrageous elements that make us happy and determined to do so.
u2022-06-08-107	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Simicskó, lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2022-06-08-108	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, We have also touched upon many things regarding the extension of the morning's emergency publication, which began today. It is clearly visible, and I also called attention to the fact that in a prolonged war situation, which is unfortunately in our neighbourhood, very great wisdom is needed, and, of course, to give the government, the executive power, a mandate that gives the opportunity to react quickly and effectively. The package of laws that has been collected before us, which actually amends 55 laws, also points to and seeks to facilitate this. Of course, it is particularly important to strengthen defence, to strengthen the Hungarian defence, to have the necessary decision-making competences, to carry out a coordinated defence activity that serves Hungary's security strongly. It is important that we also protect the economy, because the functioning of the economy gives us the opportunity to enable all sectors, all sectors of the national economy, to operate. These proposals basically support this. Of course, the KDNP faction supports the legislative package before us. We see the need to develop a renewable defence culture, to develop a strengthened defence culture, which makes not only enforcement bodies, law enforcement and armed forces, but also citizens, more secure than in today's world, the 21st century. In the century, which is full of challenges, dangers, threats, people need to see where the world is going and what dangers are lurking at them. In the matter of database management, raised by Gergely Arató, I believe that it is important to keep records of data from a protective point of view, which was practically thrown out of the window in 2004 with the removal of the general obligation of war, since the system of general engagement had already included the obligation to appear, inform and communicate data in addition to the obligation of personal service. This is how we got into a situation in 2010 where we practically did not have a fair-to-use database on the state of health and whereabouts of citizens who were subject to war. So no country can allow this if, and if, the six specific legal situations listed correctly by the Secretary of State Balázs Fürjes, the exceptional state of emergency, emergency, preventive defense situation, the unexpected armed attack and the terrorist attack, which will now narrow to three. We know that the state of emergency, which from November 1, 22nd, contains a legal term technician, in which case the general military obligation will be restored. In order to do so, we need data, we need a database of citizens who are subject to war, so that they can be reached if the country is in trouble. Don't let God make such decisions, but it is necessary to make such decisions. Everything that strengthens our defence and supports coordinated defence activities can and will be fully accepted by the KDNP fraction. It is sad, however, that this war is going on, but it is certain that the Hungarian government must be given sufficient authority to protect the country effectively, to protect people and to stand up for peace. That's what he's done. During the morning, I spoke about the possibility for modern states to respond to the rule of law when various crises are announced, what they can do. There are classic tasks for the state. It is an allocation function that uses different resources for common objectives, national targets and national targets. There are so-called allocation tasks, which are essentially tasks that cannot be carried out by the private sector, and the task of stabilisation is perhaps the most important thing for the state, which I have included in the maintenance of order and security, the action against external threats, the protection of the sovereignty of the state, and, of course, the protection of the economy, the guarantee elements of the economy must be helped by a well-functioning modern state in this particular capitalist world as well. I see that these plans and objectives are reflected in the exposé presented by the Government, which the Secretary of State has said, and that there are important decisions in this package of laws. For our part, we can support it, and we also ask the other factions to support it in the vote. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-08-109	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr President Novák, the lead speaker of the group of our country. Here you go.
u2022-06-08-110	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, This 61-page proposal is not even a salad law, but it is indeed a kind of slop that Balliberal parties may be buying, but our Homeland Movement is much less capable of accepting such a thing, since in the government's laws of salad or slops aimed at increasing authoritarianism, particularly in Article 36. § 4 is unacceptable, which allows for an additional salary without a ceiling, i.e. the Prime Minister's unlimited power to raise his salary in the government sphere. The representative of the government, Mr Secretary of State, has now been silent on this in the presentation. Mr Orbán, according to which the provision on the ceiling for salaries and remuneration will no longer apply to the Commissioner of Government and the Prime Minister, can decide for himself, the sky is the limit. So far, the law has regulated the salaries of government commissioners and prime minister commissioners without exceeding ten times the average monthly gross earnings determined by the HCSO. I don't think there's any reason for this to be abolished, no matter what kind of power game we're dealing with. Furthermore, it is proposed that the Labour Code 53 will not apply. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act of Accession of the Republic of Hungary, a derogation is made on the basis of a written agreement relating to the work, according to which, for example, the employee may still be employed temporarily in a different job or workplace, in the case of a written agreement. I do not think there is any reason to remove this possibility. [[14.40]] And I'm particularly against 30 more. The amendment of the 2004 Firearms and Ammunition Act, which would extend the powers of control to the authorities on the grounds of defence and security interests, so that they could carry out a much broader inspection of the site in closed areas, buildings, despite the wishes of the persons present there, which, I believe, gives rise to serious abuses, and I therefore believe that these two or three points should be removed from this salad law. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of our country.]]
u2022-06-08-111	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Lóránt Keresztes, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2022-06-08-112	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I think that we have had a very detailed debate here in the context of the situation that has arisen, but in itself we have had an important debate today, so I am now trying to confine myself to this concrete bill, and here, too, to the issues that may not have been discussed. My fellow Members have shown very in detail how this is a bill, a salad law, which presents non-compatible elements, and we agree that there are important and positive elements to support, but we likewise believe that there are elements that are not, in any case, eligible. I would like to refer specifically to amendments which cannot be drawn from the title of the law and the situation, which relate to the various development councils. Last year, or perhaps a year and a half ago, a decision was made on the government's proposal that the autonomy of the Balaton Development Council would be virtually abolished by putting a co-president next to the president and even extending the development council. In this way, the mayor of István Bóka was put under guardianship, despite the fact that I, the mayor of Fidesz, admired his work, and it obviously doesn't feel good or good for him politically if I commend his activities, but we did so, and we believe that he did well in the Balaton Development Council as President. Obviously, this is your reward for putting him under guardianship. Now, however, this bill is inexplicably acting in this way with all the development councils. So, in fact, you will prove that these development councils do not make any sense in your reading, and that they also want to take development policy measures with government manual control. I would like to get some explanation of how the situation, the conflict of war, or anything else can be associated with the removal of these development councils in this way. I am very curious to hear from the Secretary of State. It is clear that Hungary continues to have four regions that are among the 20 poorest regions of the Union, and that what is happening in the country cannot be called a real development, if we cannot catch up with these break-down regions, we cannot support it, and if we cannot bring the infrastructure to an appropriate state for economic development in these regions as well. And if we look at the large, accessible statistical numbers, the large territorial differences from a little deeper, it becomes apparent that within the regions, too, the possibilities of different small regions, districts, regions are quite different, and there are very serious and increasingly widespread crisis regions in Hungary. I think that a responsible government, even a government that prefers to call itself a national and a country-friendly government, should pay particular attention to providing adequate support to these regions and to the emergence of development resources in these regions, because if the infrastructure continues to be destroyed, as is the case under your governance, economic development cannot appear and migration cannot be reduced in these regions. There are a lot of system problems, such as the fact that the public road network in Hungary is getting worse, but also here there are regional differences, which show or underline that there are areas in particularly difficult or difficult situations in this respect. Similarly, there are issues of public utility supply in these areas, and there are areas where the most important public service has fallen to an astonishing extent. And you have been indebted to us for cycles with a comprehensive transport reform, and we know that without a well-functioning Community transport system, there is no territorial policy, no territorial development, and here again, with a new impetus, we can hear Mr. Secretary of State Vitézy's announced ideas once again that there will be some sort of transport reform, and we cannot see any trace of it. And it is quite clear that if you want to implement any kind of transport reform, but do not create the infrastructure conditions in the given rural areas, there will be nothing. So we do not understand why they think that these development councils should be given guardianship. And by the way, it is not noticeable, either, that you have appointed new regional development government commissioners not so long ago, how they are related to these development councils, now that these government commissioners and development commissioners are completely outside the scope of direct government decisions. My fellow Members have already mentioned that it is completely unjustified to give the Prime Minister the opportunity to raise the salaries of the members of the government without any restrictions, but we also draw attention here to the fact that, in the first round, you have very modestly elected a number of State Secretarys, and now you have added new decisions to the State Secretary's staff and are increasing the structure of the government again, so the finding that they are starting to save on themselves proves to be a lie. You can see that this government does not save itself, that power does not save itself, and you can see that in such a critical situation, even ministers and secretary of state want to raise their salaries, or open up the opportunity for the Prime Minister to do so in his own hands. This cannot in any way be considered justified. And I would like to point out, among the many amendments that do not belong here or, let me say, that are not coherent with the current situation, that there is a further increase in government centralisation in the area planning and territorial development of municipalities. Here, in various cases, you allow government decisions to override the decisions of local governments on spatial planning and territorial development, which again means reducing and emptying the powers of local authorities, and taking away the opportunity, the right to self-determination from local bodies, the bodies elected by the population, to make the most important decisions about the development, planning and operation of settlements themselves. It's also completely unjustified. That is why the wording of this proposal alone is inconclusive. At the same time, we can see that they are constantly reducing the leeway of the municipalities, constantly reducing the decision-making possibilities of the municipalities, even with brutal restrictions, by removing the municipalities from the measures you call protective measures, and, in fact, leaving these local authorities to themselves with the increasingly difficult task of ensuring the most important public services for the people living there, or, in most cases, impossible. I think that if you are at all, because you can see that you do not consider opposition-led cities, opposition-led municipalities as partners at all, you should observe the statements made by those Fidesz mayors, for example, I am thinking of András Cser-Palkovics, who has sent you a very clear and firm message about the impact these restrictions will have on people living in cities, without any political affiliation. So I can say that, in addition to many important and justified elements, unfortunately, we have managed to bring back elements that are unsuitable and that do not serve the interests of the people, and therefore we will not be able to support this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-08-113	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2022-06-08-114	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. Obviously, over the past few years, one has become increasingly suspicious of the type of law that is called:, the individual laws..., and then comes the long list of what is proposed to amend them in relation to everything. Indeed, referring back to my fellow Member Arató's keynote speech, with this present one has made another big move, so we are practically getting to the time to say, one law per session, the amendment of individual laws that is related to everything, here we are talking a little bit about it, they are voting it, and then we can go home. Moreover, this law is not justified here, it is a disgrace in respect of non-compliance with the legislative law, and I think it is a shame in view of the dignity of this House as well. [[14.50]] In this law, it has completely unrelated areas, completely unrelated regulations, as it is said to be the nation's most important common cause, defence and its various implementing rules resulting from the Fundamental Law. Economic development, let's face it, is nothing more than what has already been mentioned before me about the waiver of taxes on free port owners in such a difficult economic situation, where everyone has to stick together and pay all kinds of funds. And, of course, it talks about the Prime Minister's salary, a little more than doubling the Prime Minister's salary, and the abolition of the non-harmful ceiling of almost HUF 4 million for the members of the government and of the political leaders' salaries. Well, obviously, it's a very important national security interest, here with the war in our neighbourhood, and the peace and security of the country as a priority, one of the most important and urgent steps of the government is to abolish the payment ceiling for members of the government, the $4 million payment ceiling for the various appointments of the government. However, I would like to try to say some substantive things on this proposal, because what really brought this law here, and I think we are discussing it as a matter of urgency, in addition to the Prime Minister's salary and the increase in the salaries of the members of the government, is that you have brought it forward with the tenth amendment of the Fundamental Law to the entry into force of the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law. Therefore, it will not be a new regulation on special legal orders as of 1 January 2023, but this rule will enter into force as of 1 November now, and the various rules of this will certainly have to be followed through the legislation. A good part of this 130 pages of legislation is about this, by the way. We told you that we can't support either of them when we discussed the amendment of the basic law and also the new law on defence of the country, because the concept that these laws are born has nothing to do with the rule of law, parliamentary democracy. It also eliminates the constitutional brake which has been in existence since 89, which restricts the government's extraordinary power in the special legal order in the amendment of the basic law, especially when it is said that it will facilitate the declaration of the state of emergency in the case of internal disturbances. A special legal order can now be done not only in the event of violence, but simply by reference to the activity of subversive constitutional order in the citation. More than once, I would like to refer back to what we have heard in recent times, that some level of political expression of opposition politicians has already been labeled here, within the walls of Parliament, for the subversive of constitutional order. After the entry into force of the new Fundamental Law, this would, by itself, provide an opportunity to introduce a state of emergency if the government decides, which is quite amazing. Obviously, the new system is also a guarantee in terms of the ability of the Hungarians to use it, which came into the Constitution in 89 not only by accident, and not only from the experience of the forty-year dictatorship before it, but also from all the madness that preceded it here in Hungary, that we do not use the military against our own citizens, the limitations of this domestic possibility will be practically broken down by this proposal. However, this is what the proposal is particularly concerned about, as is the provision of a coordinated defence activity similar to a new crisis management regulation called fantasy. This quasi-extraordinary legal order can be extended at all times, as a result of the crisis caused by mass immigration, and thus will be sustainable until the end of time. As a result, untied regulation will be perfectly capable of imitating the continuing struggle for the maintenance of the nation and maintaining the state of excitement, which is obviously one of the most important foundations of the power and political logic of Fidesz. Here I would refer back to Mr Secretary of State's exposé, when he said that in such a difficult situation as this one, it is important that the government is able to make certain decisions flexibly and quickly, I would add, during the emergency that has just been adopted, anything and can be done at any time, but this new coordinated defence activity will also serve such a purpose. He said, Mr Secretary of State, that the balance between parliamentary control and the rule of law is also important in this situation, and you expressed your hope that this proposal is so. I would like to say to you, Mr Secretary of State, that this balance in this proposal has not been kept in any way. The essence of a coordinated defence activity is chaos itself, but within it is the intransparency and total inability to control chaos. The Hungarian Parliament, Parliament, constitutional institutions, citizens, the media, will not have any right or opportunity to exercise control during such coordinated defence activities, or at least to obtain information on what you are doing and why you are doing, while you will receive amazing tools, which will also override the sanctity of private property, override municipal property, and many other rather amazing tools that override media relations. We have talked about these in detail and many times, and I would not like to repeat it again. I would just like to state our position that this does not have a balance between the rule of law and democratic control in Parliament, and therefore cannot be supported as an opposition representative. This is much, much harsher and more cynical, the more cynical part of the proposal in terms of timing, especially the urgent need to negotiate, is indeed more than double the Prime Minister's salary, almost threefold, which, of course, can be explained by the fact that he has not been involved in the Prime Minister's salary for years, but the timing, Mr Secretary of State, is still inexplicable. On the other hand, what is in the further regulation is that no legal guarantee is from now on, there is no benchmark; one person, Viktor Orbán, tells us how much the other employees will earn, and not only will the Prime Minister tell us how much they will earn, but they will carefully write in the law that, as I mentioned, the upper limit of their salary will be abolished for these people, which is ten times the average wage. This is 4 million 300-400,000 forints right now. Well, it's interesting. Then, Minister of State, when it comes to establishing a defence fund and a fund for reducing or protecting assets, when the extra profit is taxed, when it is said that everyone who has brought or has collected quasi-additional benefits in the past period has now to pay in common, at the moment, I say once again, the Prime Minister's salary is almost tripled. You must have missed the submission of this law that at this moment the budget of the Presidential Office, including the wage frame and the money that the new President of the Republic could spend, was doubled by almost a hundred percent. I don't know if the function of the President of the Republic has changed or any other function has changed. As far as I know, a president of the Republic has resigned, and another has come to his place. In this difficult situation, they doubled the money for him. But I could also say that to the Centre for Fundamental Rights, which is one of the government's favourite sites, 37 people work in this institute, Mr. Secretary, 2 billion forints have now been tossed at this difficult time, we do not know what for. The Prime Minister's Office's budget has been tenfold, because they're obviously starting to save on themselves, and we can see that very well. If you are looking for where the money is, Mr. Secretary of State, in 2021 the hundreds of the richest people in the country, a large part of whom, thanks to 12 years of hard-working Fidesz parliamentary legislation and government support policy, the Prime Minister is now primarily a member of the government, his first hundred richest Hungarian assets after Covid, the dawn of the war grew by HUF 637 billion only in 2021, their private assets in one year. If you'd like to make some money somewhere in this defense fund or in a debt reduction fund, we'd like you to look here as well. Meanwhile, Secretary of State, you announce yesterday that you are issuing nearly a thousand billion HUF of foreign currency bonds and continue to bring the country into foreign currency debt. [[15.00]] So how's that? And they said that then the opposition parties, they should really be paying for the Rehabilitation Fund, because it doesn't mean how much money they're getting. But tell me, how do you blow it two ways with one mouth? How can you share your sense of extra profit and tell everyone who pays into this fund while pouring billions into the things I've listed to themselves, to the narrowest political leadership, and in the process of devoting the country to a thousand billion dollars? These two at the same time, Mr. Secretary, I can't. In short, what is the Defense Act is the World War II. and, as a result of the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law, the main concern is the crisis situations of coordinated defence activities, which we cannot support in this form. Once again, it reflects a strong political attitude or self-criticism that not only the Prime Minister, but also the increase in the salary of the direct ministerial and political leaders, and even an increase without barriers, will be brought before the House at this moment; I think it would be good if this were withdrawn. Thank you so much for listening. [[Gergely Harvester applauds.]]
u2022-06-08-115	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. No one came forward for a two-minute speech, so there will be further speeches by their representatives. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Komáromi, DK Group. Here you go.
u2022-06-08-116	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Over the past two years, a large city of people have died of Covid infection and the fact that our terminally bled medical system has not been able to cure patients who didn't die of Covid infection, but died of cancer, heart attack, strokes. (The President's seat is Dóra Dúró, Vice-President of the Parliament.) The suffering and death of these patients has also been significantly contributed by the hasty, dilettious government measures that we have witnessed. Even those who can get themselves tested, cured in private health, noticed in recent weeks and months that they are already having problems there have increased waiting time, including due to lack of human resources. The average Hungarian citizen does not have access to this kind of care in most cases, although he pays the social security contributions throughout his life, he can only obtain the most basic diagnostic and therapeutic interventions after several weeks, not exceptionally even after several months of waiting. How is it that for years people have paid a lot of money into their budgets for their health care, and when they happen to be in a situation where they get into some kind of health institution, it is often because of the blind luck and the dedication of doctors and nurses to survive, because if it were up to funding, then they would be in a lot of trouble? New government, new government structure, new priorities, we thought that after 12 years people would finally be the focus of healing. We thought that the government attitude towards education would not be typical of health, because if there are problems of operation, insurmountable problems and those working in the system cannot prevent, reduce or eliminate them, people could die. Less than a month ago, László L. Simon, Museum Director, faced the cold Hungarian reality, and although the anomaly he described was soon revealed that the general physician he had set up was not a mistake, he gave an insight into the fact that it was no longer just opposition whining when talking about health problems. We thought something was finally going to happen, but what do we see compared to that? On the one hand, workers and non-health professionals have not received a significant wage increase this year, although this is a problem that could slow down or halt the migration of healthcare workers from the sector. Overall, a significant part of the bill is designed to create technical text changes and consistency with the Hungarian Defence Act, and introduces a new concept, a coordinated defence activity, and all substantive changes focus on this. The amendments strengthen the theme of military defence, defence, use the, coordinated defence activity, the unexpected attack, and the, defence and security interests. Government communication and this bill also have the effect that Hungary is under attack or that such an attack could soon take place. The post of chief of hospital shall be the first area of employment of the army where the use of soldiers and non-military personnel has not been separated in any form. Hospital commanders acted on the recommendation of the Minister of the Interior and on the mandate of the Prime Minister, i.e. the person appointed by the Prime Minister at each point in the hierarchy of hospital commanders. Following the mandate, the Minister of the Interior shall appoint the hospital commanders to lead the medical institutions. The hospital commander can be assigned not only to the head of a public health institution, but also to the head of an elderly home for more than 200 people through municipal, religious or private institutions and a subsequent amendment. In the absence of any specific provision, the head of the institution is ultimately responsible for the proposals made, although the Regulation has not granted any freedom of decision in relation to the implementation of the proposal. Despite the fact that the proposal has been made mandatory, the Regulation does not exempt the head of the institution from the consequences of the implementation of the proposal and the liability. Turning to the health aspect of the bill: 14, 15, 16, 17. § CLIV 1997 on health. It will amend the law. The Health Act is 228. Since 2012, the state of health crisis has been described in § 5 of the Act, which may be ordered by the Government on the basis of a proposal from the national chief of staff, on the basis of a presentation by the Minister, under certain conditions. (b) in the event of an emergency emergency in the event of an emergency in the event of an emergency in the event of an emergency in the event of an emergency in the event of an emergency in the event of an international emergency in the event of an outbreak of public health or other epidemic, which is not subject to point (a), which normally occurs unexpectedly, endangers the life, physical integrity, health or the functioning of healthcare providers to the extent that it leads to a imbalance between health care needs and the capacity available on the ground, and requires cooperation between the public health administration, healthcare providers or other public and municipal bodies. In point (c), it is a case where the health care of a population of a medical institution's special statutory care area is seriously and directly impeded, provided that the care of the population of its supply area by another medical institution is disproportionately difficult. I would like to point out that this situation is happening more and more today. All I have to say is that, as far as I know, there were two hospitals in the city and one in the county, and there is such a situation, but I did not hear that the chief of staff at the National Police ordered such a measure. Otherwise, the current state of the cited law would regulate the steps on the existence of the conditions for a health crisis: the reasons and circumstances justifying it should be followed up by the national chief officer, and if the conditions of the arrangement do not exist, the competent minister should be initiated to propose that the government be repealed. Well, we haven't seen this in the past, because it would be lawful for the announcement of an emergency to be closely linked to the occurrence of an emergency; if the emergency situation was declared by the government when the outbreak occurred, or if it didn't last for months after the outbreak ceased. [[15.10]] The proposal presented highlights the fact that the current legislation does not indicate that the health crisis is a coordinated defence activity. It states that patients are being treated in the context of health crisis care during a health crisis. In the event of a medical crisis, any healthcare worker, other than those involved in vocational training, may be assigned to a medical institution providing primary care, outpatient care or inpatient care, or to a periodically operating medical institution. It is well remembered that when Act C of 2020 introduced a much mentioned medical service service, both opposition parties and professional organisations representing health workers criticized this part of the law in the strongest way, so that the government was finally forced to back down. This has now been the case once again, without regulating the length of time, without geographical limitations, without regulating the reimbursement of costs, and even to the extent that those professionals working in the basic care are involved in this, as defined by the law; the general practitioners who are otherwise obliged to take part in their contract of contract and in their contract of service with the competent local government. It is proposed that the secondment of healthcare workers should be decided by the health administration body, by an operational tribe in the case of several counties, or by another organisation designated in the Government's regulation. Which organization will this be? National Hospital Directorate-General, NNK? These questions are certainly to be answered by health workers, and this ambition is fully understandable and eligible. I note that in the current form of the proposal, the length of time may be extended until the medical institution applying for secondment is able to carry out its additional tasks only with the help of seconded workers due to the health crisis. This therefore has no time or geographical limit, contrary to employment other than a limited term of appointment. According to another passage, if the worker refuses to comply with the order without due cause, he may have disciplinary and labour law consequences. Only then will the practice be shaped, so it is a question of whether there will be labour law disputes and what aspects of judicial practice will be developed when medical staff are seconded. Finally, I would like to draw the attention of the Government and my fellow members of the Government to the fact that, in the event of the adoption of the proposed salad law, they should not be surprised if this does not improve, but jeopardises the safety of the health care of Hungarian people. We're already hearing malfunctions, mostly from rural hospitals. Obstetrics and emergency care departments have been restricted in order to ensure the safe care of patients. In the last month, there were days when the rescue service in Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County, in the county hospital, stopped treating stroke patients, as a result of which there was a situation where the rescue service delivered patients to Budapest, the Honvéd Hospital or the Debrecen Clinical Center, and it was almost impossible or would have been possible to intervene effectively in an appropriate window of time, and without this, the risk of permanent damage to them would have increased significantly or increased. And one more thing: it's June, in July and August, health workers want to go on vacation. I do not see the guarantees that all healthcare institutions in the country will remain undisturbed in the care of patients. And if this bill really gives the government unlimited licenses, do not be surprised if it accelerates the willingness of healthcare workers to resign. What I have said, I have said in order to protect health workers and patients with whom they are provided, and I would very much like this bill to include what the appointed minister has promised, and the Minister of State responsible has also promised not to form any legislation regulating or influencing health without consulting professional organisations and patient rights organisations. I would like to draw attention to this and ask the government to keep this promise. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2022-06-08-117	Welcome, fellow Members. At the same time, I ask if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] As I do not see any other candidates, the general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Balázs Fürjes, on behalf of the rapporteur, that he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] He says he wants to, so I'll give the floor to Secretary of State Balázs Fürjes. Here you go.
u2022-06-08-118	Thank you very much. A lot has been said. Thank you very much for taking the factions seriously for the debate on the bill. We apologize to Congressman Arato for interrupting the religious celebration of Pentecost. Unfortunately, life doesn't stop. I didn't mean to threaten you, I just indicated for the record that I wanted to save time, so I'm not going to give you the many examples that I'm not going to give here, which are about the fact that opposition leaders and politicians have been getting a much bigger allowance for years than the Prime Minister, and I don't see the need to open this number war. Of course, the Prime Minister's salary will not be the same as that of the Austrian Chancellor, and no one will raise the Prime Minister's salary to the Austrian Chancellor. If the bill is adopted, the Hungarian Prime Minister will earn less than half of the bill compared to the Prime Minister of the neighbouring country. There is no austerity, and of course you know that very well. It is your monopoly, the monopoly of the left, and we have no intention of taking it away, it is your privilege, we do not know when you will be able to do so, in Hungary, in the last decades, restrictions have been imposed only by the left. Since you have brought this here, Congressman, you must agree to this question. During your administration, the price of gas has tripled, the price of electricity doubles. When you governed, Congressman, Hungarian families and households were forced to bear the most expensive gas and electricity costs. Unemployment has skyrocketed, 13th month's pension has been taken away, family support has been abolished, home support has been dismantled, people have been driven into foreign currency loans [[Gergely Harvesto: Fidesz authorized it.]] And then a lot of people went to hell. We know you're the ones who use restrictions. There are no restrictions, compared to this, as I said in the expoze, there are different types of threats outside of us, independent of us, and the Hungarian government is committed to protecting Hungary's citizens and families. I would like to say to Mr President Novak that this can still be discussed in committee, but we do not see any possibility of abuse in relation to the control of firearms and ammunition, precisely because of national security interests, the objective of the technical amendment is that, in all circumstances, when so necessary, checks can be carried out. To Mr Keresztes, on development councils: we would not use the word guardianship, we would use cooperation; especially in the case of development councils where improvements can be made mainly through the use of community and state resources. It is therefore particularly useful for the representatives of the government which has legally and accordingly decided on the budget to participate in the development council, and who use the budget on the basis of Parliament's decision, to present the budget to Parliament. [[15.20]] Thank you for the compliments of Mayor Fox, and I will translate it to him. There's no need to be afraid that you complimented him. There is greater trust and solidarity among us than to be shaken by the positive statements of an opposition representative about a fellow politician, as opposed to you, where it is customary to betray, and the Prime Minister's candidate seeks traitors every day in every bush in your party. It's different with us. In relation to development regions and councils, Minister Navracsics, who manages the work of the government commissioners, the work of the government commissioners mentioned by you, is certainly available to Parliament in various genres. I do not want to go into a number war on the issue of poverty, exposure to poverty, a reduction in the number of families and households with unexpected spending difficulties. I'm really asking you, Congressman, yesterday, perhaps Bence Rétvári quoted these numbers, not to us, not to us, to look at Eurostat statistics. There has been a positive change in all dimensions in recent years. It wasn't hard, we started at a low level compared to left-wing governments. There is still plenty to do, but that the direction is positive and poverty is not growing against all false statements on the left, but is decreasing in Hungary, which is supported by Eurostat numbers, even if Mr Harangozó raises his eyebrows, which is of course the right of his heart. If we also look at transport reforms, what has happened in the view of railway lines, vehicle park renovation, road construction, motorway construction, expressway construction, Budapest is a separate story, where you can talk lessons about what has happened in Budapest's transport development over the past 12 years with a very large share of government resources and support, it simply doesn't fit, as if we were not watching the same cinema. There's no restrictions, there's security. We've always said that I feel a little bit about the rent, that if we're wearing a hat, the problem is, if we're not, that's the problem. When we introduced the overhead protection in a way that was only used to protect families, it was not good either. When we expanded it because the country's economic situation and the international environment were much more stable, it made it possible, we extended it to local government entities, that was also a problem. What is happening now is simply that there is an international situation, there is a war situation outside of us, an economic crisis, but at the same time we do not allow the protection of families. This is what the Rezségvédelmi Fund serves, which is the most important institution of next year's budget in addition to the Hungarian Defence Fund, and we will also protect the Hungarian families in this respect. I could ironically say to Congressman Bellozó, thank you for the compliment that you have made another big move. Indeed, we are always trying to give everyone a step forward in Hungary. This has always happened in recent years with regard to citizens, citizens, families, businesses. Perhaps I would be wiser to respond to his speech by saying that, in the spirit of peaceful coexistence, we can agree that we do not agree on anything at all, but that should be the case. In Democracy, the debate between the government and the opposition is the natural state, the consensus is an exceptional, decorated moment. Just one comment: just as you listed here on one of the issues that none of the legislative proposals on the subject have been supported before, they will not support this either. We're used to them not supporting anything. Since trust and betrayal are different with you, I will not tell you which partner, but I learned wisdom from one of your associates, when, surprised, years ago, he said yes to an important government proposal that sometimes it is necessary to say yes to make the sexes credible. If someone always says no, sooner or later, they become discredited. There is a discreet charm that a representative of the successor of the State Party which regularly uses anti-democratic violence against its own citizens before 1990 and a representative of the former government which illegally imposed violence on Hungarian citizens in 2006 accuses us of misuse of the legal possibilities. One more comment: we have heard a lot of this today, that maintaining a state of excitement. It was said this morning that propaganda was the cause of victory. Let's say for a moment, assuming, but not allowing you to be right, and we want to manipulate people with all kinds of evil intentions, but when you find the reason for the election results in this, you look down on the Hungarians. Because they say snakes and frogs about us, we're used to it; but we can still do our job. But if we could manipulate the Hungarians, you would really say that Hungarian voters are not adults and not self-thinking people. Hungarian people are adults, they think on their own, they have all kinds of influences, they meet all kinds of news, and they have been able to decide what is the right choice for Hungary. Don't look down on the Hungarians. Consider the voters as adult people and make peace with the election results. In a few years, we'll all be running again. And what they said about the growth of private assets, the extra-profit tax, it's not one person on that list that's gonna feel it. They are boiling, but this is one of the differences between us, for example, that we are cooperating with the representatives of the national capitalists in the country, but we are not their prisoners, so we are not afraid to harm them personally. What I can tell you about the control of Parliament is that, as has been the case so far, during the emergency, the Parliament is continuously operating and meeting, and can exercise all its powers to control the government. Thank you very much for your attention. We continue to ask for the support of the bill.
u2022-06-08-119	Dear Parliament, The amendments were possible until the end of the debate. We are now at the end of the debate on today's agenda, and now we are going to take the floor after the agenda. First, Mr Lóránt Keresztes, representative of the LMP: our city, Pécs, will address his speech after the agenda. I give the floor to the congressman, please.
u2022-06-08-120	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Dear Parliament, In my speeches after the agenda, I typically deal with the issues of my country, Pécs, and I talk about the problems that appear in Pécs and the possible proposals for solutions, and this will be the case today. We know that we are in a very difficult situation and we are living in a crisis. Next door, a conflict of war broke out after Russian aggression, and this marks almost every aspect of life. We see that an energy crisis is unfolding in Hungary, that the issue of energy security is on the agenda, and it requires particular attention from everyone, every decision-maker in Hungary. It is quite clear, isn't it, that in this situation we must do everything we can to ensure Hungary's energy security and energy supply, and we must also do everything we can to reduce the vulnerability to Russia's energy policy. We can say that the Hungarian government has not attempted to do so in the last few cycles, and even in this situation, with the Paks II project, Hungary's vulnerability to energy supply would be deepened. Over the past few years, ministerial hearings have also taken place in all committees, and here we have heard László Palkovics, Minister for Industrial Development, state that in this difficult situation, it is not about what the colour of energy is, but about energy. In spite of this, the government seems to maintain its professionally unjustified decision to continue banning wind energy in Hungary, and it is also apparent that this trend continues to limit the use of solar energy by different taxes and administrative means. And in return, Minister Palkovics also talks about the fact that the government believes that it is worth reopening cases that have already been closed, closing decisions, and also mentioning the issue of uranium mining in Mecsek in search of possible reserves. We know that in Hungary there has been uranium mining in the Mecsek region, near Pécs, at the border of Kővászőlős, and we also know how brutal environmental destruction has resulted in the fact that from an economic point of view it has never actually been understood. [[15.30]] This activity has been closed for a very, very long time, but at the same time several tens of billions of forints have been spent so far on regeneration, and we also know that this type of environmental destruction can never be restored, and in fact this recultivation work, the protection of the Pécs drinking water base, can never be stopped, can never be completed, and on an annual basis costs the Hungarian taxpayers tens of millions of forints. In view of this, reopening this thought experiment to re-establish uranium mining in the Mecsek region, is serious irresponsible, even at the level of the thought experiment. In addition to the fact that this is an extremely environmentally destructive activity, this type of uranium mining, which is intended by various economic operators, would no longer have an economic impact on Pécs and its region in the same way as the former uranium mining activity. This is about the fact that certain foreign stakeholders want to re-open uranium mining activities and gain rights to this, but this would only give jobs to a few hundred people, typically in jobs that the Pécs labour market would not be able to fill. Therefore, it would not mean work for the Pécs, it would not mean tax revenue, it would also be particularly negative in terms of economic impacts, not to mention extremely serious environmental risks and environmental impacts. It should also be said that only the authorisation procedure for this uranium mining activity would cause enormous economic damage, as it is planned that a mine site would be created, which would lead to an amazing depreciation of 1300 properties in Pécs, as the mining sites would be registered with this effect on a large number of properties in Pécs, and these properties would lose their value to a large extent and very quickly. We can therefore say that this thought experiment is also unacceptable, that this idea must be discarded at this stage, and we must do everything we can to prevent any new uranium mining activities from being authorised, which would otherwise extend to the inhabited areas of Pécs. The city of Pécs and the county have already expressed their wish, their intention, that the city of Pécs can only imagine economic development from the direction of sustainability, taking into account the principles of sustainability, that would be completely contrary to the construction of a new uranium mine and a nuclear cemetery, and Pécs has already stated this in a resolution. We expect the government and all the actors to respect that. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-08-121	The Hungarian representative of Mi Hazank, Mr.Előd Novák, applied for a post-meeting speech:. The third time they are trying to name the public area of the anti-White racist Nelson Mandela in Budapest. You have the floor in five minutes. Here you go.
u2022-06-08-122	Thank you for the floor. Yours truly, ma'am. Dear Parliament, It is a racist provocation that, for the third time, the Metropolitan Assembly, led by Gergely Christmas, will attack with unanimous decision, so that the communist, white hater Nelson Mandela is named public area. Twice you've managed to prevent this great coalition spree from our country's movement. In 2018, the Metropolitan Assembly led by István Tarlós voted unanimously, along with Jobbik and Fidesz, for the name "Parkel" of the anti-White terrorist Nelson Mandela, and then the Hungarian Movement protested as the only party, and right-wing intellectuals also gave a strong criticism of Mandela. So we managed to get István Tarlós and all the parties to back off: the decision on the name of the public area was withdrawn. So this was a serious anti-communist success. László Toroczkai, President of Mi Hazank held a press conference in 2018 at the XI. We also protested online at Mandela Park in the district. In addition to the fact that Nelson Mandela created a system that openly discriminates against whites and an increasingly less-living country where crime skyrocketed, where thousands of white farmers were killed with selected cruelty, Nelson Mandela was also a communist. The African National Congress, led by him, joined the South African Communist Party, and according to the party's own spokesman and website, Mandela was not only a member but also one of the leaders of the South African Communist Party. In 2020, Gergely Christmas once again initiated the name of the same park on the anti-White racist Nelson Mandela, and the newbuda municipality voted on it after another marked protest by the Hungarian Movement. After an 11:10 vote at the nearly eight-hour board meeting, even Mayor Imre László DK rejected the initiative, feeling that he had voted against it, so he could make such a decision despite the absence of a Fidesz MEP. You know, this was the memorable meeting where, in a sudden fit of honesty, the DK mayor praised Hitler. Gergely Adolf Hitler's praise of the other times was a wildly Nazi Christmas, of course. By the way, the head of the Momentum faction in the corporate debate on Nelson Mandela has misjudged the South African apartheid regime several times and only called it "Arbeitheid," so once again associating it with the Hitleri. Arbeit macht frei, while calling itself an expert on international relations. Mayor Imre László later mixed Mandela with Mengela, so I think it is unacceptable that Balliberians want to give a historical lecture and teach a lesson in memory politics to people like us. As a representative of the local government of Mi Hazank, I myself protested about the racist provocation of Gergely Christmas. In the amendment proposal, I first called for the citizens to be consulted in 2020 and then proposed the name Etele park to the public area next to Etele út, but they were also rejected, so the park remained anonymous. Maybe someday he'll have the name of Miklós Horthy. I don't know why it's so important to Gergely Christmas or Fidesz, but every two years they're running again. They've given up the New Buda, but they'd like to name a 5 000 square meter park from the terrorist Mandela in the neighbouring district of Gellért Hill. Although, as I did, the Municipality of District I has not decided yet, although they are competent, and their vote, without their decision, cannot be done, the Mayor's Office has informed MTI that the memorial will be handed over on 18 July. This is already a mockery of the local government by the Municipality of Budapest, even if a unanimous decision has been taken in the capital, but the decision of the I. district is still lacking. Dear Parliament, Ceterum censeo: neither Mandela, Mengele, nor Hitler, the compromise Horthy Park is proposed by the Hungarian Movement. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause for the representatives of our country.]]
u2022-06-08-123	After the agenda, MEP László Varju, representative of DK, asked for a speech:. What is happening in Újpesten? It's an address. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2022-06-08-124	Thank you very much. Dear House, I will continue my tradition, or perhaps rather my custom, by telling you from time to time what is happening in our constituency, so that it is about good practices that can be taken over by others. Now, however, I am slightly different from that, because here I am going to talk about a specific development issue for which we have come to an important milestone. Transport is a constant topic in my constituency, as thousands of people arrive from the agglomeration every day in the district on the edge of the capital city, travel, and enter the city through Újpesten and Angyalföld in some form. The Aquincum Bridge has been hanging in the air for a long time, with the possibility that this could be the solution, a transport facilitation, which would mean that it would be easier to get from Óbuda to Újpest, not by a great detour. But in order to decide that, in cooperation with the designers, a debate was launched, a public opinion poll on what form of construction should actually be chosen. In cooperation with the BKK, these versions have been shared on the website, which are essentially about the construction of a new northern bridge in these regulatory plans. At Aquincum, from Spider Street to Váci Road, this bridge would be built, and on this line, the Újpest railway bridge, which is referred to as the northern link bridge of the common language, and on which there is a railway bridge, there would be a pedestrian-biking connection between the two banks of the Danube. [[15.40]] At the same time, a car and BKK flights can only be taken by a long detour at the moment, so you can still walk through it today, but otherwise you can only do this by way of a long detour. This detour is the reason why many people come much further into the city, and that is why it would be justified to consider this bridge. A new bridge would allow shorter, faster journeys between the northern areas of Budapest. This will not only make life easier for those who are travelling here, but will provide the opportunity to introduce and provide for additional traffic relief measures by eliminating unnecessary detours. But what exactly is needed? After all, transport habits have changed a lot here over the past period, and the expectations of our wider living environment are different today. There are opinions that there is no need for a new bridge, and that is why it is very justified for us to have this dialogue with people. This means that, by the way, the relevant III. district, IV. district, XIII. District and even XV. This work must be carried out together with district authorities. The leadership of the Metropolitan Municipality seems to be committed to improving transport and therefore considers it important that the bridge and the related road network do not unduly burden the directly affected residential environment. The population itself has explained this. A moderate car traffic, a bridge with community transport links, is also favourable on the basis of previous opinion polling and expressing opinions. The respondents are primarily afraid of building a motorway bridge, so they do not want such a bridge and do not support this development. Responders want to keep car traffic low and avoid increasing noise and air pollution. The Budapest Transport Centre is now conducting a detailed feasibility study on behalf of the Municipality of Budapest, and the deadline for this will expire on 8 June, i.e. today, and it will be possible to decide accordingly on the basis of new knowledge. In any case, I would like to draw attention in advance to the fact that whatever version comes up, the construction of any bridge is a prerequisite for closing the M0 bridge and the M0 ring, without it all being worth very little. That's my suggestion. A significant part of the trail, if it has to be driven in a tunnel, must be done, because then transport development is worth something. Thank you so much for your attention.
u2022-06-08-125	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next meeting of Parliament will take place as recommended by the House Committee. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed.
