u2022-06-21-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 2nd day of the extraordinary meeting of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Attila Gelencsér and Dávid Dócs will be notaries of my assistance. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, Máté Kanász-Nagy, representative of the LMP, applied for a pre-meeting address with the title "Activities." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-06-21-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, In a presentation last week, Minister László Palkovics referred to the strengthening of energy independence, affordable energy prices, ensuring increasing energy demand and taking into account sustainability and environmental aspects as the most important energy policy tasks. I can agree with Minister Palkovic, with virtually one exception; it should be added that the increase in energy demand, the continued exploitation of new and new energy sources are always associated with the exploitation of man and the environment and the increase in emissions of pollutants, but other than that, we are talking about precise and eligible objectives. There is one way in which we can reduce our energy needs, which means sustainable and green solutions, which is to support public transport, because, in addition to cycling, it is social transport that should be developed and supported with all its resources. It's a green solution that can improve the well-being of all of us. The introduction of the climate lease proposed by LMP in Hungary, based on a German example, could give a tremendous boost to the development of public transport. In recent weeks, we have had the pleasure of conducting a discussion with representatives of the government on this subject. For example, Minister of State Balázs Fürjes told us recently that under the leadership of Minister Palkovics, Dávid Vitézy State Secretary for Transport and his team are studying very closely that this measure was introduced in Germany on 1 June, and they are seriously analysing and examining the possibility that the introduction of a climate lease in Hungary would be a useful step. Mr Secretary of State also told us to continue the constructive debate in this regard. If we return to Minister Palkovics last week, he also said, or perhaps a little earlier, when he met his German colleague, the German Minister for Transport, that the German Government had made a wise decision and that the introduction of a €9 lease in Germany was a huge success. I would like to ask you when the Hungarian government will make this wise decision on the introduction of the climate lease and when we will have a huge success in introducing the climate lease. Let's continue this discussion, see the benefits of the climate lease. My first and perhaps most important argument is that it will help us get rid of petrol vapour, continuous jams, noise, and reduce emissions from car transport. We also need to say that cars cannot be moved today, which is why we need a XXI. In a liveable country in the 20th century, it should be a fundamental objective for as many people to land their cars as possible and for as many people to use public transport services or to cycle. My second very important argument is that the introduction of climate lease for hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families would bring an immediate cost reduction. Just think if it cost a few thousand forints a month to use the flights of MÁV, Volán and BKV, for example, it would cost a family of four tens of thousands of HUF. Think about it, we're here at the beginning of the holiday season. For example, if you want to get to Lake Balaton with your family from Debrecen or Békéscsaba, you can reduce your transport costs significantly with the help of the climate lease. My third important argument is that the introduction of a climate lease clearly helps our energy independence, as we know that car transport is heavily oil-dependent, dependent on petrol. But let me point out that electric cars are not a real solution either, as electric cars are dependent on electricity, and the production and operation of batteries, especially at the end of their life cycle, would have a huge environmental and destructive effect. It's not a real solution either. What is the real solution is the development of public transport. That is why I am asking the honourable representative of the Government, studying the German example of where this process is going, when we will have a huge success with the introduction of a climate lease, when we will support the green and sustainable transition of public transport by introducing the climate lease proposed by LMP. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2022-06-21-2	Thank you very much, Congressman Máté Kanász-Nagy. On behalf of the government, Mr. Csaba Dömötör will answer.
u2022-06-21-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, First of all, some important facts; first of all, Hungary's first legal commitment to become a carbon neutral country by 2050. We will reduce emissions by strengthening our economy. In addition, we emit 24 percent less greenhouse gas than the start of government to produce GDP per unit in Hungary, which is also important. CO2 emissions per capita are the sixth best value among EU countries. That's how it is now. Allow me also to say that we have heard from you in the last few years a wide range of promises and suggestions. We remember, for example, that a few months before the municipal election, a few left-wing politicians had a naked protest for the air-conditioning of Metro 3, and shortly later the mayor, with a thermometer, promised to give air conditioning and then elected. It was elected and failed to fulfill this promise, and now it stands to say that this thing has come out of the planned developments. So when the left makes proposals for climate protection or for any investment, I would be very careful and doubting. As far as the issue of climate lease is concerned, we agree that climate protection should be encouraged with all possible means, including new transport solutions and even tariffs. The government is also constantly looking at ways to make significant progress in this area. It is also worth looking at the experience in Germany. In this case, I would add that German citizens are facing much higher energy prices, because there is no price stop like the one that came into force in Hungary. Another fundamental circumstance, I believe, is that the left was given a number of opportunities in 2019, so if you want to introduce new transport solutions and new tariff solutions, then you have every opportunity. The left-wing authorities have their own incomes, their own powers, and I suggest that you take the chances of doing so, while the government is also doing its job. If, in the end, these steps are not to be introduced, we would like to ask one thing not to be blamed on the government, as they do regularly in other cases. Don't make a habit out of having a very big dream in words and then taking action on the government. [[9.10]] And while we're here, I can't leave one thing unspoken: that you're thinking of another. In the cities, such as Budapest, they want to introduce a congestion charge. [[Máté Kanász-Nagy intervenes.]] It also shows that they are thinking not in price stops, but in Budapest-stops. The city's been standing for months. Due to the city's inability to act, traffic chaos has persisted, and they are trying to drive motorists, commuters and people living in the capital. But that's not enough, because right now, on top of that, they want to tax the motorists. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] Now, if I understand correctly, some calculations have been made on the other proposal, then also in this case, come up with the exact numbers and tell me how much a car driver in Budapest or other cities should pay under the congestion charge. I would like to ask you not to want to know better how Hungarians should live their lives. And if you don't agree with them on how they live their lives, then don't blackmail them, please, with new taxes, because that's obviously what this is about. It will not be possible to live a city at a class-fighter's pace to drive one social group against another, but to have the opportunity to get a good quality service and be free to decide how to travel. And I would also add that in a war situation, when all of Europe is struggling with diverse economic problems, we are facing war inflation, a massive increase in taxes or a congestion charge is not exactly what Hungarian families need. It is clear from these few examples that your alliance, whether in the LMP or in any other left party, or in Jobbik, has previously been a austerity and tax maniac, has been, and is, a tax rise maniac, and I can also see that there are not as many two-thirds defeats as there are that could dissuade you from this career. There's one thing you need to know. They have the spirit of what policy they are pursuing, but they need to know that Hungarians do not want to take this train. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-06-21-4	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Sándor Berki, representative of the Dialogue, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-06-21-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear House, During the parliamentary meetings of the last few weeks, we have learned that the situation is not very good within our borders, because it is not very rosy outside our borders. And yet, in all of this, we have faced the fact that Prime Minister's salary has been raised from 1.5 million forints to 3.5 million forints in this House. Before you look at me strangely, I can support any wage increase, I'm a fan of wage increases, especially with regard to the workers. What I would like to talk about today is that I do not know why this has happened now, and for what reasons, perhaps because of inflation, perhaps because of rising food prices, but perhaps because of the fact that Prime Minister's salary was not high in the European context, I accept that. But the same applies to Hungarian workers, Hungarian workers as well, that the salary of Hungarian workers in comparison is also low in European terms. Then I would like to convert here to the fact that I am from Nógrád, on the other hand, that the salary of a worker in Nógrád County, which, according to the data of KSH, is somewhere in 2022 511 400 forints, we are barely over half of that. So what is my problem, and what I would like to say is that in Nógrád we do not want to catch up on European wages, but primarily on Hungarian wages. For me, this is a good opportunity, that if such things can happen in the country, and there is a possibility for us to double wages, trusting that it was a good feeling for Prime Minister, and I am sure that a smile came through his face, too, when he faced the fact that he had doubled his salary on mine, I am sure that a smile ran through when I got into the National Assembly, because I admit that I am one of the privileged ones with this salary, and therefore hoping that you and Prime Minister will remember this moment, and I hope that I would also like to share this feeling with the Hungarian workers, in which I would like to suggest that we double their wages as well. We've been arguing for weeks about 10 percent, 20 percent, that's what we've raised, that's how much we've raised. There have been changes, it has to be acknowledged, the minimum wage has also increased, but I think that such a wage increase would greatly contribute to the satisfaction of the Hungarian people. I am very confident that they can and would like to convey this feeling to the Hungarian people. So I think that if we had a double now, we would be catching up on wages for Europe, and we could really say that this is a work-based society, and in this work-based society, the workers are paid. And I hope it doesn't offend anyone, but I'd like to mention law enforcement workers, health workers and those in the educational institution, trusting that they won't be offended, because I think everyone who gets paid for their work is one of the workers. But if you feel you can think about it a little bit more, well, do it, but please think this through. But I have another suggestion. Speaking of doubles, let's double the family allowance. It's not that big a deal. If the Hungarian government does so, I think that if not for a full day, but for a moment Hungary will be one of the happiest countries. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the lines of MSZP and Dialogue.]]
u2022-06-21-6	Thank you very much, Congressman Berki. The Government's position will be presented by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2022-06-21-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, raising wages and wages for the most deprived is a measure of a government's approach to people who come out of their monthly wages the hardest, help them or deliver them, add a surplus, or just allow them to swing on the brink of being and not being. And that number is derived from the minimum wage, honourable Member. When the Hungarian left was governed, he raised the minimum wage by HUF 23 500. This means that in eight years he raised the minimum wage from HUF 50,000 to HUF 73,500. This is far from a double, honourable Member. It is clear that when there was a government there to decide to vote for large employers, to have a small wage bill for them, or to vote for people to increase their salary, then every year, when these negotiations always take place, you saw it on the news, the big companies and employers always won, because they were stronger and more channeled to the government. Then in 2010 there was a very big change: the minimum wage grew from HUF 73 500 to HUF 200,000. That's a lot more than a double. The wages of the people with the lowest earnings increased more than twice, almost two and a half times during our government, by introducing a tax on them, you referred to various child benefits that if one has three children, in addition to this salary, he will, of course, no longer pay taxes or contributions, so his net wages and gross wages are the same. So we endeavored to help those who earn the least, and so we tried to help those who raise children. This is a very important measure: when a government reduced taxes, it reduces personal income tax, it develops a tax system that takes into account child rearing or not. When we started our government, the highest tax rate was around 32 percent, 32 percent, high, and in Europe, too, and you probably read the program of the other organisations that you started with in the elections: 30-40 percent taxes, which would take away a good part of your salary from the working people. And then everyone wonders why I should report, why I should work legally, when the state takes away more than half, that someone might pay me some kind of money, and only the smaller part of it gets to me. We said no, we had to cut taxes on work so that salaries could grow, so that people's wages could grow. We said that consumption should be more the state's income, because objective is paid by everyone who earns more and pays much more of it, and we said that we should lower the tax rate to make it more worthwhile to work, to promote performance. There are a million more jobs in Hungary, because the whole country has been a partner in this country, because one million more people are working, everyone has been a partner for us because we said that everyone should have a legal job, not a grey and black job, and that we should encourage everyone to perform. You work more, you make more. [[9.20]] What does the left say? If you work more, I'll take more away from you, which is why you're not motivated by higher salaries and work, at least not in the legal part of it. However, with our right-wing thinking, we said that if you work more, you will pay more in proportion, but you will not pay more public space exponentially, but in proportion. If there's twice as much work, twice as much salary, there's twice as much tax. You say on the left that if there is twice as much work and twice as much income, people should pay four times as much tax. That's why a million more people have been able to give it to you. Perhaps you know Ronald Reagan's saying that the best social policy is job creation. That's what we were following. He was successful, he was one of the largest re-elected presidents of the United States of America, and we are also very successful in admitting that 1 million more people have jobs in Hungary and that 1 million people have much less tax burden. And in employment, thank God, it's very high in Hungary, we started around 55 percent, and now we're over 70 percent. At the time, 469,000 people had the daily problem of finding work, and now they're somewhere around 195 thousand, so unemployment is far less than 4 percent today, despite crises in the world and elsewhere. And, of course, the average wage has also increased, honourable Member. When I look at the average net earnings, the real value has increased by 70 percent. In January of this year, we also increased the salary of police officers by 10 percent, and they also received gun money, which you mentioned. We also increased the salaries of preschool teachers by 10 percent, as well as the salaries of teachers at school. We increased the salary of daycare workers by 20 percent, and the nurses by 71 percent and 25 percent in four years, and the doctors by 38,5 percent, and if I had the time, I would also mention how much people managed to increase their salary on 1 January this year. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-21-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, László Toroczkai, representative of Mi Hazank, leader of the group, asked for a pre-meeting address with the title "Political prisoners in Hungary."
u2022-06-21-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, On Friday, hundreds of people protested together with civilians due to the organization of Gaudi-Nagy Tamás and the National Law Protection Service in front of the Fast Carriage Street Penalty Institute, where György Budaházy is currently incarcerated, who is involved in a case in which he is not alone, since a group of patriots has been prosecuted since 2009. It is outrageous in itself that 13 years after the initiation of the procedure, there is still no final judgment. I think that this in itself can be apt to waver citizens' belief in the rule of law in Hungary. And we can add that these patriots have been ravaged for 13 years. In 13 years, their children are practically adults, as we are talking about family fathers and family mothers with multiple children. During that time, many of the murderers of the Gypsy Mafia in Enying who attacked top athletes and murdered Marian Cozma in Veszprém have already been released. Or we could think of the Italian lynchmen, of whom the prime defendant was free to leave the Star Prison in Szeged after 13 years. Meanwhile, patriots who didn't kill anyone who didn't beat people to death, decent teachers, such as Professor Lajos Szögi, are still behind bars and are constantly being dragged around. You can imagine what their lives must have been like in 13 years when they were constantly incarcerated with life imprisonment, while they, I repeat, did not kill anyone. We can add that, in the 13 years since the proceedings began, we have seen that the same court, the Metropolitan Tribunal, issued a judgment in March this year, which, overall, will punish György Budaházy with 117 years in prison, more precisely in prison. And the same Hungarian court washed Ference Gyurcsány out of the cases that were brought against him during this period. And here I am thinking not only that between 2006 and 2010 it was Ferenc Gyurcsány who broke public order in Hungary. Between 2006 and 2010, we could not talk about a normal rule of law in Hungary, and obviously this is a very hard and integral part of the history of this case. But not only Ference Gyurcsány, but also the police leaders of the time were washed out of all proceedings against them in Hungary. But not only could such proceedings be launched against Ferenc Gyurcsány, but there was, for example, the case in Sukoro, which was published with György Budaházy, among other things, between 2006 and 2010. You may remember this casino investment, which Ferenc Gyurcsány considered a strategic investment as prime minister, but today we know it was a dirty corruption case. Ferenc Gyurcsány sits here, unharmed and unharmed today, taking his huge salary, and is not sitting here right now, but he is taking his salary, while the person who published this dirty corruption case is currently sitting at the Penalty Institute on Quick Car Street. I would like to remind the government that even the Kádár regime, even the communist dictatorship, declared amnesty and public mercy seven years after the 1956 Revolution and the War of Independence, and even 14 years after the Revolution and the War of Independence, it granted mercy to those who were convicted of public affairs in 1970. How is it possible, I ask, that 13 years after the opening of the proceedings and more than 15 years after the events of that time, there was still no pardon for György Budaházy's case? As far as I know, he is now in the Ministry of Justice, the Minister's table has the individual pardon applications submitted by György Budaházy. I ask the government to support this case in the same way that Mária Wittner is a 1956 revolutionary or the Protected Society Foundation. So I think it's a case that's out of the question of parties. Support the government to ensure that there are no political prisoners in Hungary in 2022! Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-06-21-10	Thank you very much, Mr László Toroczkai. On behalf of the Government, Mr Répássy Róbert will respond.
u2022-06-21-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, I would like to quote from the press release of the Metropolitan Court on 16 March, in which you provided information on the judgment of first instance, not final in the criminal proceedings referred to you. I would add that the verdict was delivered 12 years after the indictment. The Metropolitan Tribunal, for the first degree, for the felony of terrorism and other crimes, the first accused is 17 years of age, and the second sentence of 14 years, 3rd. Fifteen years of defendants, IV. 8 years, 7 years, 7 years, 7 years, 7 years. 4 years, the 8th. 13 years 6 months, IX. 11 years, 11 years, 11 years. He sentenced the accused to 12 years in prison. These accused persons are not eligible for conditional leave, and the offences imposed on them have been committed in a criminal organisation. Four other defendants were sentenced to imprisonment: The defendant of the order of 4 years, the XIIIrd. 3 years 6 months detention, Order X and XII. Order of defendants 2 years 6 months in prison. All defendants sentenced to imprisonment have been banned from the practice of public affairs by the court. In addition, Annex VI is amended as follows: 1 year 6 months, XV. The defendant was sentenced to two years of probation by the court of XIV. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. He's acquitted the defendants of the crime against them. Also, according to the ruling facts in the press release of the Metropolitan Court, the accused I created a criminal organisation from the Hunnia Movement, founded in April 2007, and conducted attacks on SZDSZ and MSZP party offices with Molotov cocktails, and then beat the former MP of the MSZP out of personal injury. I will continue to quote this communication. In December 2007, two attacks were carried out, shooting at the then Minister of Education's family house, throwing a Molotov cocktail at another minister's building house. [[9.30]] The communication continues: in February 2008 a coordinated arson attack was carried out against six other Members of Parliament. In April 2008, a ticket office was set on fire, in the summer of 2008 two nightclubs were attacked by Molotov cocktails, followed by a bomb attack at the summer house of the Minister without a wallet for the civilian secret services, and in December they tried to obtain money by robbing an ATM. The communication continues: on 8 April 2009, four bombings were planned at four locations, and the attacks were prevented by police officers who had been monitoring the activities of the accused for a long time. Following the publication of the operative part of the judgment, the Metropolitan Court ordered the provisions of Articles I, II, VIII, IX and VII of the judgment. and XI. arrests of accused persons. The Punishment Code punishes the act of terrorism with ten to life imprisonment. It also states that the judgment is not final. So far, it's a statement from the Metropolitan Court. Dear Chief of Staff, Some of the defendants have filed a request for procedural pardons at the hearing court. The Metropolitan Court has filed a petition for pardon with the Ministry of Justice. I can't give you any further information about the pardon procedure because of the protection of personal rights. I ask you to take note of what I have said. Thank you very much. [[Laszlo Toroczkai: Jesus! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-21-12	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Répássy Róbert. Dear Parliament, Mr Dezső Szigély, representative of the MSZP, notary, asked for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Notary.
u2022-06-21-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary of State Ladies and Gentlemen! It is now clear that there is not enough money for their ambition. It can also be seen that the only thing missing right now is the billions distributed before the elections. And more and more people see that there is trouble, and the market is not only seeing it, but also feeling it. There wasn't one of them I met who thought inflation was less than 30 percent. There's been an unbridled deterioration in living conditions. People say their money isn't worth anything, but they work hard for it. What was 260 is today 400, this is the euro; what was 500 is today 850, and this is paradise. I've been told by housewives that the production of licorice, the favorite of many of us, costs twice as much today as it used to be. What does the government do under these circumstances? He's organizing a fundraiser. It's called an extra pro. It's special that it has nothing to do with extra profit. And that would be expected of a minister to hit where the money is. If he doesn't succeed, he shouldn't be surprised if he gets unpalatable comments. I understand this case is about to end up expecting an apology from him. Minister, I apologize to you on behalf of half the country, because at least so many of you use expressions that are significantly more harsh than those previously said on the Minister and his invention. By the way, that's what happens when you don't make a professional decision. You're clearly earning money. But where? At the local authorities? Morning, wake up. He's not there. Someone stole it, the register's empty. Their incomes have been hijacked, and they're making up silly taxes. I don't know, by the way, do the students know that the Fidesz government is also taxing plumbing, paying these pipes for every meter of local government. You are clearly earning money and, as a result, your actions have affected small and medium-sized enterprises. I guess you're thinking there's a lot of people out there, and there's gonna be a lot of revenue coming from there. Well, I don't know how many people will stay after the measures. These businesses or most of them just came off the ventilator, it's a miracle they're alive. We know them, they're the baker, the hairdresser, the corner gyros. We know them, and we know they don't have a backup. Are they clueless about where the money is? Well, where they urinate, where they have fabulous fortunes, where they don't know what to buy and how much to buy, they don't know where to spend their holidays, they spend money like there's no tomorrow. Don't you know who they are? Everyone knows them, even by name, and we know that there are thousands more than that. Well, they've got money. They should pay. Well said, Botka, you're right, the rich pay! [[Bence Rétvári interrupts.]] It's an old experience to make money, to have money where the sound of fun can be heard. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] I can hear those voices coming from you. [[Bence Rétvári: You have it! Eszter Vitalos: There they laugh!]] There's been government blundering for months, money rain, job rain, post rain, there's so many commissioners and commissioners, you might even see it from the moon. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] And when I look up like that, I see helicopters flying all over the place, I see jets flying around the world. I was thinking, what if we had a sea? But here, at the end of my comment, there is a very useful advice, don't worry, I didn't make it up, Viktor Orbán said, more correctly: he wrote it down. After a great victory against the English, he said, more correctly, he wrote: "Now is the time to be modest. We agree, you're right. I want you to set an example here. [[Applause in the lines of Momentum, MSZP and LMP.]]
u2022-06-21-14	Thank you very much, Mr. Dezső Reliable. I give the floor to Mr András Tállai Secretary of State, Deputy Minister.
u2022-06-21-15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Honestly, I have a feeling about déjà vu. I was also in Parliament when your Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsány told me about 2008 [[Zoltán Vajda intervenes.]] that there will be no crisis in this country, and there will be no crisis in this country. [[Miklós Soltész intervenes.]] "Hungary will not be affected by the crisis, and then a few months later there, in the chair he faced the fact that there was a crisis, that Hungary was insolvent. Well, you've just forgotten the following things in your speech. On the one hand, there is a war in the neighbouring country, a war that has an impact on the whole world, let alone on Europe, the whole world from an economic point of view, in Hungarian: an economic difficulty is caused by war, in fact, by a crisis. There is a war economic crisis or an emerging world. Then he also forgets that there is price increases and inflation in the world, not in Hungary, because of the Orbán government, but because of high inflation. [[A statement from the opposition: It's the pom-pogács! Defiance in the same place.]] war and other economic factors. There is inflation at such a level that both Germany and the United States say that it is said that there has not been such high inflation in forty years. To think that this small open country, such as Hungary, will stay out of this and will not affect us, we will not feel this, this is a fundamental mistake and a bad attitude. Then you will forget, just as you forgot in 2008 during the crisis, that there is an energy crisis; there is an energy crisis, and this energy crisis started before the war began, which, moreover, the energy crisis is being mistreated by the European Union, making bad decisions, and making European Union countries, their citizens, businesses and economies more difficult by their inconsistent decisions. Overall, if we add these factors to war inflation, war economic crisis, war economic difficulties, then we have to look at what is happening in Hungary, what is happening in the planning of the 2023 budget, what decisions are made here, especially the extra-profit tax, what decisions are made to maintain Hungary's balance, in order to protect jobs, to protect the Hungarian families, to protect the cuts you have looked down on, for which we have been fighting for for ten years, and we have actually just found out how much value this is. [[9.40]] Of course, you don't look at it that way. Of course, you're right: when you go into the store, you choose a product and you wonder how high the price has become. However, a government must think about a much more complex system, the interests of the country should be taken into account, the country's budget should be balanced, the interests of the people in the country should be taken into account, the interests of Hungarian families should be taken into account. The government's decisions are without prejudice to the interests of Hungarian families, there will be no direct tax increase that violates and protects Hungarian people. [[Sic!]] Our decisions on inflation and the price stops reduce inflation. Honourable Congressman, As far as municipalities are concerned, it also failed to do so, since in 2021 the municipalities closed with suffity and produced a significant surplus. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] So it wasn't a withdrawal from the municipalities, it was...
u2022-06-21-16	Thank you.
u2022-06-21-17	... surplus business tax balance. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-21-18	Thank you very much, Mr András Tállai, Secretary of State. Dávid Bedő, representative of the Momentum, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-06-21-19	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Last week, I asked the Ministry of Regional Development with an immediate question to explain why they have not done anything to bring back the EU funds due to Hungary immediately for a year. On behalf of the government, Deputy Minister Csaba Latorcai replied, and it would be more accurate to say that words have left his mouth after my question. [[Defiance from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I find it difficult to call what the Deputy Minister has produced. [[Bence Rétvári: It's a good thing we're not personal.]] Csaba Latorcai believes that the reason why we do not receive the thousands of billions that are sorely missing from the Hungarian budget is because the EU wants little boys to go to kindergartens in tull skirts and to make Hungary an immigrant country, whatever those words mean. There is, however, a small problem, other than the fact that the government does not respect the Parliament's building so much that it does not use the infinitely stupid language of propaganda here, within these walls. [[Bence Rétvári: Because you, on the other hand, are free of personalism and professionalism!]] It's a bigger problem, because someone in the government is lying. A few days ago, the Deputy Minister's Chief Tibor Navracsics made a statement in the domestic and international press, which is in stark contrast with the Deputy Minister's words. Navracsics has publicly acknowledged what is already clear to everyone else that the European Commission has serious concerns about the Hungarian public procurement law that provides a hotbed for corruption. But I go on: on 13 June, here in Parliament, in the Committee on European Affairs, the Deputy State Secretary László Balogh said the following quite precisely, when I asked him clearly what the points of dispute with the EU were and why the country did not receive EU funds. Here's a quote. What are the sensitive questions? I think my colleague Gyenes has said very nicely, one of which is the matter of public procurement. There is a question relating to the prosecution procedure and a solution to certain institutional issues relating to the independence of the judiciary. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, It is important to clarify who is lying now: Minister Tibor Navracsics, Deputy State Secretary László Balogh or Deputy Minister Csaba Latorcai? 'Cause someone's definitely not telling the truth. It would be good for them to at least agree among themselves what excuses they are trying to make for their amazing failure to bring home the European Union's money due to Hungary for more than a year. It would be nice to clarify between us and before the National Assembly which of them lies to the Hungarian electorate and finally admit the real reasons. But the best thing to do is to stop lying, making excuses, and the endless bullshit with the European Union that doesn't lead anywhere, and, instead of bargaining, to comply with some of the rules that all other governments and nations in Europe are able to comply with outside the Hungarian government. It's not hard, believe me. [[Miklós Soltész: Relax! There's people in front of you!]] And to come not only with expectations, I would also like to be constructive, and I have good news for the Hungarian government. [[Bence Rétvári: Oh, how kind!]] The Momentum knows exactly what changes should be made immediately in order for us, like all other countries in the EU, to receive development money. [[Bence Rétvári: How clever you are! Miklós Soltész: Don't shout, they're sitting in front of you!]] While you were trying to explain your failures by making excuses, we first presented a proposal for a resolution to the Hungarian Parliament about joining the European Public Prosecutor's Office. [[Moraj and interrogations from the ruling parties: Bravo!]] This would be a bold move to prove in one blow that you really do not want to steal from EU funds and are willing to hand out EU funds to an independent authority to ensure this. Of course, there is no doubt that it would be much harder for you to fill your friends' pockets after this, but perhaps more important than that is that Hungarian people get a thousand billion from the EU. The next step is to radically amend the Public Procurement Act [[Bence Rétvári: You wrote that, too! Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] To close the loopholes that are now being deliberately opened so that as many public procurements as possible can land in friendly hands. But you do not have to bother with that either, my honourable pro-government colleagues, because Momentum is about to submit to Parliament a proposal to amend the Public Procurement Act. [[Bence Rétvári: Thank you! We don't have anything to do. Eszter Vítalos: Everything is resolved.]] All you have to do is accept the Momentum's proposals, and there will be no more complicated tasks, and perhaps even 135 brave people in the ranks of the ruling party will be able to do so if they show up at work. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I therefore urge you to accept the Momentum's clear proposals instead of misconception, lying and making excuses, and then perhaps this year the flow of frozen money from the European Union will start. Let's bring EU money home so we don't have to squeeze it and finally spend EU funds on what they're for, hospitals, schools and jobs. [[Bence Rétvári: And to Katalin Czech!]] Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Momentum. Intruder from Fidesz: Bravo! Bence Rétvári: Why aren't you the president if you're so smart?]]
u2022-06-21-20	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Latorcai, State Secretary, will respond to what has been said. [[Noise. The president's gonna ring the bell.]]
u2022-06-21-21	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Honestly, I'm a little embarrassed that you just spoke on behalf of the Momentum or on behalf of yourself. [[Miklós Soltész: SZDSZ! Little SDS! Louis Löcsei: A little more respect!]] If you have already spoken about the contradictions of statements and statements in your speech, allow me to draw your attention to the fact that the leaders of your party did not so long ago think that EU funds would be a threat to the country's future. I don't understand why you're worried. Thank God for the government's record of drawing EU funds over the past 12 years [[Dávid Bedő: In the fall!]] EUR 4.5 billion in 2018; EUR 3.5 billion in 2019; EUR 4.5 billion in 2020; EUR 4 billion last year for Hungarians, Hungarian businesses. [[Miklós Soltész turning to Dávid Bedő: The European Public Prosecutor's Office should be consulted on your girlfriend's case!]] On the other hand, if we look back at the period before 2010, the time of the left-wing governments, we can see that Hungary, in terms of the use of EU funds, was behind both the EU countries and the Visegrád countries, and that if it had been up to the left-wing governments, it would have lost hundreds of billions of forints to the country, the Hungarian people and the Hungarian economy. Honourable Congressman, As we have indicated over the past period, we are constantly negotiating with the European Union, both with regard to the Partnership Agreement and with regard to the Restoration and Resistance Fund. Our aim is to speed up these negotiations as quickly as possible and to allow these agreements to be signed by the end of the year. To this end, Minister Tibor Navracsics discussed last week in Brussels, indicating that Hungary is ready to compromise on technical issues and I would repeat:, of course, not including immigration and child protection issues. So far, we have been and continue to strive to remove the very sensitive issues that are not closely related to the use and resources of the European Union from the negotiations, i.e. political issues that should not be covered by professional issues. [[9.50]] We hope that, following last week's negotiations by Minister Navracsics, this will also be the case from the European Commission. We have discussed with the European Commission continuously and with openness, we have reflected on their comments, and we will continue to negotiate in the same way. The basic development policy document of the 2021-27 programming period, the Partnership Agreement between Hungary and the first Member States was submitted in December 2021 and the document, which was further specified on the basis of the Commission's comments, was re-submitted on 26 May. It is also important to know that so far only ten EU Member States have agreed partnership agreements. Hungary also has advanced negotiations on operational programmes, all operational programmes will be formally submitted by 31 July and five months after the formal submission will be available for the approval of the programmes in Brussels and the European Commission has undertaken to do so. With the conclusion of the Partnership Agreement, we are one step closer, and in the case of negotiations on the Restoration and Resistance Fund, there is even more work to be done, but we hope that this agreement will be signed by late autumn. Dear Parliament, However, the politicalization of the left shows that their only real goal is to prevent Hungary from getting access to the European Union's funds. Mr President, Members of the European Parliament of the Momentum are also taking a stand against Hungary. Change their politics and do not prevent Hungary, the Hungarian people and Hungarian businesses from getting access to the money they produced at this time, especially when there is a war in Europe, and because of the war period, Hungarian people and the Hungarian economy need every penny. And on corruption, Mr President, be kind and speak only when you have clarified the deep corruption case on your part, the case concerning the use of EU funds in the European Union by Katalin Czech Republic. Don't talk about it until then. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-21-22	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Csaba Latorcai. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik also applied for a pre-meeting speech with the title "No future" without the support of families raising the child. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-06-21-23	Mr President, Dear House, During the budgetary period, it may be worth looking for topics around which there may be some public agreement, as this may end up being a budget line or support. Today, too, the term "child protection" has been mentioned several times, and I would like to address this area in my speech today. As it is a budgetary period, I have examined how the government's income expectations are coming along, and I see that the government is hoping for about 30 percent more of its VAT revenue alone, with almost 7,000 billion coming from 5100 billion being all the expectations they hope for from the realised VAT. What we see is that if we could use only 10 percent of this very large amount of extra money, i.e. a thousand billion, together to protect children and facilitate child rearing, we would be able to exercise a huge discount towards families in the middle of a crisis. I will explain later that I will ask for 1 percent of this amount, i.e. one percent, so that where family problems accumulate, we can also offer a helping hand. Our basic demand is the tax exemption of child-rearing articles and, obviously, a guarantee system that guarantees that this will also result in a price reduction. We see that this item of expenditure would be less than 10 percent of the amount that the Government of Hungary collects in addition in the form of VAT in the following year. We see your expectations, we see how much more money you want to realise, and we ask for 10% of this to be supported by families who have children. But we also see that where problems accumulate, the child has special educational needs, the problems are even greater, and the discount system is not actually visible or very often barely. As a result of family involvement, I have also faced this supply system and the fact that often a diagnostic examination is one-and-a-half years of waiting, even within the private system. We also see that although excellent practitioners deal with children with special educational needs, the unbelievable shortage of numbers and especially the underfunded nature of medical pedagogy professionals create amazing problems in this system. We see that not only professional services, but not only schools, should be supported in a priority way, but also the increase in the number of people that is essential for all Hungarian children to receive the care they deserve, because they have the right to do so. In many cases, status is legally available in these areas, but since there is no additional funding, the situation is that there is a child with special educational needs and does not receive the forms of development that can make him a productive, active adult person at the most sensitive age. The systemic misconception that we are experiencing could be resolved, the difficult situation could be alleviated, and once again, 1 percent of the amount that you want to realise next year with additional VAT revenues would be sufficient for this whole area. 10 percent and 1 percent of the extra VAT revenue could greatly benefit all children's families, such as, by abolishing VAT on baby food, diapers, children's clothing, and 1 percent would be enough for children with special needs to actually receive the help they need within the current realistic framework. We also see that class numbers do not allow them to be effective in most cases either, but if class numbers need to be maximized because, for example, an autistic child is counted as two or three according to the professional calculations, then again we get to the fact that there is a shortage of professionals, there is a shortage of teachers in relation to those affected. So it is quite certain that the system of training must also be adapted, because it is untenable that a beginner medical pedagogy specialist should work for 180-200 thousand net in this area and remain in this area. We also see that the system of allowances provides some room for manoeuvre, but it can divert this amount by 9-40,000 forints, and that is why not many people will remain in the market in bulk, because they see that they can earn more than one in other jobs. All in all, we see that their expectations for VAT increase by 30 percent, so we do not ask for any amount taken from other areas, only 10 percent of the money collected plus is requested to abolish the VAT on child-rearing articles, guarantee price reductions, and 1 percent of the amount involved is requested to strengthen the institutional system for children with special educational needs. We believe that this 1 percent is also serious billions. A great deal could be achieved, especially in the middle of a crisis. We are confused about the government's distance so far, but I very much hope that we can change this during the budgetary debate. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2022-06-21-24	Thank you very much, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. On behalf of the Government, the statement will be answered by Secretary of State Eszter Vitalyos.
u2022-06-21-25	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for your speech before the agenda, and you are on very important issues. I am in a lucky position to be in contact with several medical educators in my constituency, and I have been told of the good news that their situation has improved a lot over the past few years, as there have already been training in medical educators at ten universities. While in 2013 930 people began to study as teachers of medicine, in 2021, 1852 people had already been admitted to training as teachers of medicine. I would like to share another important issue with you: the number of medical teachers in Hungary has increased from 5700 to 10 000. I think we can agree that the Hungarian future is in the hands of Hungarian families, we work every day for them, for Hungarian families, every year since 2010, we spend more than the previous years on making it easier to raise children, start a family and create a home in Hungary. Today, we provide many forms of family support and benefits for all parents who have children so that families can thrive in peace and security. Security, I think, is particularly important in all areas today, which is why we stand out for all our Hungarian compatriots, and we call a stop for the increase in petrol prices, the increase in basic food prices, the increase in interest rates, and we ensure that the household is maintained at an affordable level. [[10.00]] Basically, I believe that food prices are not determined by the VAT rate, but primarily by demand, competition in the particular sector, production costs, weather, the current geopolitical situation, right now, the Ukrainian-Russian war. Government targeted VAT reductions in recent years have had a strong impact on the food sector since 2014. Instead of a stop, we provide a green lamp for all ideas and support that protect the interests of Hungarian families. Thank you in advance if we can count on you in this work, regardless of the party position. I have no doubt that Hungarian families are important to you too, but I do not agree: if this is true, how could they, in political terms, be combined with those who took away the regular child protection allowance, took away the family tax relief of parents with one and two children, reduced the tax relief rate to more than half, shortened the legal period, reduced the upper age limit of the family allowance, increased the price of energy fifteen times, doubled the price of electricity, and tripled the price of gas. These are the actions from which families still feel, to this day, that if a balliberal government is placed in a position of decision, it will certainly not be good for them; and that may make your concern a little unreliable, too. We work for the Hungarian people, and we believe in families, because without them, Hungary cannot be built successfully. For this reason, in the first year of the family-friendly turn, we restored the duration of the child to three years, introduced a family-friendly tax system, and we also provide higher support for families from the budget than ever before, and in 2023 we provide some HUF 3225 billion in funding for Hungarian families. This is nearly HUF 450 billion higher than the amount of subsidies in the 2022 budget, and three and a half times the amount spent by the 2010 Balliberal Governments. We have heard from you many times in the walls of this House that our policy has little visible results, but perhaps let us see the facts. The fertility rate increased from 1,23 in 2011 to 1,59, which is a 26-year peak. This is a 29-percent increase, which is the greatest expansion across the European Union. In Hungary, the number of marriages doubled between 2010 and 21. The continuous extension of the first marriage and the average age of first childbearing before 2010 slowed down after 2010, women marry only 16 months later and give birth 8 months later than ten years ago. More and more children are born in marriage. To me, these facts mean and show that more and more people trust the Hungarian government, more and more people dare to have a family. If everything had stayed the way your coalition partners thought it would have. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: There was no coalition ever. The choice made it impossible.]] Today, in ten years, 123,000 fewer children would have been born. As long as Hungary has a civil government, family support will only be extended, because the Hungarian future is written by Hungarian families. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-21-26	Thank you, Secretary of State Eszter Vitalos. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Varga, representative of DK, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-06-21-27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I am going to talk about Debrecen, in fact, about the fate of vulnerable Hungarian people and local governments. According to Minister Palkovics, the county of Hajdú-Bihar will be Hungary's most industrialised region within five years, and there is a huge industrialisation and industrialisation programme in Debrecen. The question is, of course, that's good for Debrecen, the Debrecen. Okay, they'd answer if they asked me that, just not like you think. Because the BMW investment that makes electric cars is good, which will give jobs to about a thousand people, it is less good that the factory is 400 hectares northwest of the city, 45 45! It's built on golden crowned soil. There is hardly any better soil in Hungary, but it also thins its partner in Europe. Of course, the people in the area watched with tears as the meter - high soil was bulldozed and its location poured out with concrete. And if that wasn't enough, recently the best fields in the south of Debrecen are being cemented again. The general assembly in Debrecen obviously voted for the increase of construction capacity from 50 to 60 per cent in the interest of multinationals, but the minimum green area is reduced from 30 to 20, even though the government decree provides for a minimum of 25 per cent green area. The state-owned architect also contributed to this and did not consider it necessary to carry out an environmental inspection; the amendment did not, in his view, prejudice conservation interests. However, according to independent climate experts, the city's microclimate can soon be overturned and dangerous heat islands can develop in the summer. The story is far from over, as the government is now bringing environmental-polluting battery factories to Debrecen: a South Korean company that will produce cathodes for lithium batteries, a Chinese company that has already made a declaration of intent to buy 45 hectares of batteries, another Chinese company, Europe, and even one of the most powerful battery manufacturers in the world. And, of course, there is a major plan to decontonate agricultural land and green areas once again. You can see, Honourable House, that nothing is expensive for the Orbán government, for you, to make the country and Debrecen the citadel of extremely polluting, dangerous battery production, which again will push the Hungarian economy towards high added work, rather than assembly. For example, the Samsung factory in Göd is now known as a deterrent case with more serious problems in terms of payment, environmental protection and pollution. Dear House, The question is why Debrecen can be a partner to the government in carrying out such an industrialization concept, the city with many economic, financial and environmental risks. I'll tell you: there are two kinds of municipalities in Hungary today. One of them, the large majority, is not only abandoned by the government, but not only provides them with resources, but robs and robs them at various addresses. And, of course, there are the Fidesz-led municipalities, such as Debrecen, where the adoption of direct government manual control is required. This is why Debrecen was most likely to have to take over, for example, the deeply losing Nagyerde Stadium, as the operation has already become uncomfortable for the government, or that, of course, the General Assembly in Debrecen once again handed over to the government, free of charge, the airport that was bought back from Lajos Kósa libling in the city of Debrecen a few years ago. We weren't surprised that the government einstand, the removal of the airport, had already been published in the Gazette before the general meeting decision, and that the company had already been listed as a public company. It is terrible to say it, ladies and gentlemen, but today, instead of Debrecen and the lives of the people who live here, the only thing that matters to the government is the multinationals that are dear to it. That is, Debrecent and the other cities, supposedly in a privileged position, have long since been controlled by the elected mayor and the general assembly, but directly by Orbán's men and stooges. Dear House, This is what has become of the Hungarian local government in the last 12 years. Congratulations on that. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2022-06-21-28	Thank you, Congressman Varga. On behalf of the Government, Mrs Zsófia Koncz will respond.
u2022-06-21-29	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, let me begin by saying that this government has believed in a work-based society rather than a welfare society since the beginning. And I think that our goal is to create one million jobs in the beginning, although it is true that they have been very sceptical, but this has been achieved, and this whole nation should have a common success. Not to mention that after such a difficult epidemic, more people are working in Hungary today than ever since the regime change, and more people are working than before the epidemic is a huge achievement. With measures in the economic protection action, we supported more than 1 million 660,000 workers, and domestic unemployment is one of the lowest in the European Union. [[10.10]] Well, where do we start? So in 2010, when we took over government, there was almost 12 percent unemployment, and today it is 3.6 percent. I think this is an amazing achievement, because the EU average was 6.2 percent and the euro area average was 6.8 percent. During the February-April period, the number of employees is 4.7 million and this is 109 thousand more than the same period. We believe primarily in tax cuts, family support, the results of which can be seen, and since 2010, the real value of net average earnings has increased by 70 percent. You shouldn't forget the minimum wage. I think that the issue of the minimum wage has always belonged to Fidesz, because it was a very important thing to raise the minimum wage already during the first Orbán government, and the minimum wage was 73 500 forints in 2010; from 50 thousand forints in eight years you were able to increase the minimum wage by only 23 500 forints before 2010, and now 200 thousand forints. I think that these are results that must be discussed, because for us, the protection of the Hungarian economy, Hungarian families and Hungarian jobs has always been a priority. And if we are talking about the municipalities, because you mentioned the municipalities, we also have to say that in 2010 we took over government with virtually an amazing debt from the municipalities, and I think that the government's debt of almost HUF 1400 billion between 2010-14 shows that this government has always stood up for the municipalities, and that consolidation was also a very, very important thing for it. The issue of industry has been raised: the government's economic policy is based on fiscal discipline, the budget deficit is developing as planned, and, thanks to our disciplined fiscal policy, since 2010, the gross government debt has remained significantly below the average of the euro area and the EU 27 countries, and the Covid crisis has not changed that. In Hungary, the tax burden on businesses has been steadily decreasing since 2010, and we have been on this during the epidemic situation, and we have been repeatedly understood by the accusation that we are a country of assembly, which is likely to feed on the fact that 28 percent of our investment index... Hungary continues to have a very attractive investment scene, and Minister Palkovic confirmed this at his ministerial hearing, but also said that we would like to make a permanent change with the label of the assembly country, with the fact that Hungary can not only produce high-tech industry, but also has higher added value and research and development and innovation. Our aim is to improve the efficiency of the Hungarian industry, because without increasing added value there is no competitiveness, Hungary is not just a assembly plant, the proportion of high-tech products in domestic production is 70 percent as well as Germany and Denmark. The innovation background is also developing dynamically, the amount spent on research and development has increased from HUF 300 billion to HUF 800 billion since 2010, with only a rapid increase in GDP making the budget ratio slightly lower than the targets set at that time. For us, Hungarian industry is extremely important and we would like to further develop the Hungarian economy through this. I would ask the Member to support us in any way. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-06-21-30	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, László Szászfalvi, representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, also spoke before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-06-21-31	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. The presence and activity of Christian churches has made an extraordinary contribution to the survival, strengthening and development of Europe, and then Hungary, the Hungarian nation. It is not by accident that our Fundamental Law states, and I quote: "We recognize the role of Christianity as a national preserver. In the last thousand years, our Christian churches have contributed significantly to the survival, functioning of our nation, and even to frequent reunions in Hungarian history, with both their faith, community building and their educational, health, cultural, social and charitable activities. Therefore, we can say with a calm heart that our churches represent unique, irreplaceable values in the history of our country. KDNP, as a Christian world viewing party, has therefore been unbroken in supporting their operation since its founding. However, there were times when churches were persecuted for ideological purposes and tried to make it impossible. In communism, the Hungarian state stripped the churches of all their wealth, their built-up institutional system, of the land, forests and real estate used to sustain it. The compensation started in the course of the system change only partially returned some of their assets through a 25-year process. Unfortunately, between 2002-2010, left-wing governments continued this left-wing communist legacy, since they had abandoned the support of churches, refused to pay the rightful subsidies to church schools, and failed to comply with the Vatican agreement. In fact, they would continue to do so today if they had the authority. Dear House, Since 2010, there has been a paradigm shift in Hungarian church politics. Our new Fundamental Law is clear: constitutionally, the state and churches are clearly separated, but they can cooperate and cooperate with each other for the benefit of the Hungarian people, families and the nation. This cooperation has not only been established in recent years but has also been completed. Since 2010, Church support has increased sixfold. Numerous programs have been implemented, and the ecclesiastical system has been strengthened and popular. Over the past 12 years, more than 3,000 churches have been renewed in Hungary and in the Hungarian inhabited areas of the Carpathian Basin, and nearly 200 new churches have been built with Hungarian government support. In 2021, the government announced the Hungarian church reconstruction programme with a budget of HUF 26 billion, under which 1800 churches will be renewed. Dear Parliament, From all this, it is clear that the Hungarian government does not simply want to live with the churches, but is seeking alliance and cooperation with them, supporting their educational, cultural and social activities, supporting the value system they represent in these areas. Thanks to this cooperation, the church's educational, charitable and social involvement has increased significantly in recent years, which serves the long-term development of the Hungarian human sphere. We can see from recent events, from the migration crisis, from the period of the pandemic, now in the humanitarian crisis caused by the Russian-Ukrainian war, what a huge role churches and religious charities and social organizations play. Their work in the Charity Council also shows that churches and their organisations can be counted on in the most difficult times. In the field of public education, the number of students in church kindergartens and primary and secondary schools has doubled since 2010, with 220,000 students now attending church institutions. This shows the increase in participation in education, in which the churches in Hungary have always been outstanding. Let me mention the example of my constituency: the Reformed High School in Csurgó celebrated its 230-year anniversary just recently, and in the last 200 years it has played a significant role in the cultural, educational and social life of that region. KDNP is committed to working with the churches, [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] upholding the budgetary stability of churches and their institutions and supporting the government's commitment to ecclesiastical communities. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[10.20]]
u2022-06-21-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the government, I give the floor to State Secretary Miklós Soltész.
u2022-06-21-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It was interesting, however, during his speech, while he quoted the Gyurcsány government in part before 2010, in part when he warned and called on the extent to which the aid system has changed now over the last ten years, in DK's ranks the grimaces are not a coincidence. It wasn't a coincidence, it was them. [[Noise in opposition benches. Intercom from the pro-government benches, we're used to it.]] Those who lied to justice even to the fall speech, you know, the Church budget was cut off, it's legitimate to do public service! subsidies were taken back, did not build or only minimal schools, churches were very minimally fixed, while, of course, they needed income from, say, tourism. And I could continue the line: the charity activity was completely equal to zero, which, for example, during the first flood in 2010, the charities could not help anything. Well, that's what described them. One more thing is worth saying: the legal environment: the business churches that took the money from the otherwise legally operating churches were booming. And the fact is that this policy, this grimace, which could be seen on them now, has continued over the past ten years, as dozens of quotes can be said and classified, especially from Ferenc Gyurcsány, Gergely Arató, Ágnes Valai, or even from Gergely Christmas to the extent of attacking and scolding the churches, not only the churches, but also the believing people, and therefore not only them, but also the people who send their children to church schools, are in social institutions as well as nurse, caregiver or caregiver. And this is the time that would be good to avoid, because they want to terminate the Vatican contract, they want to withdraw the funding of the churches completely, and they are the ones threatening to cut further benefits. Obviously, this is not our social policy and church policy, and I think that what we have done in the last 10 to 12 years has served the entire country, the whole nation. We have established the church law, there is no such thing in Europe that there are 32 established churches, 230 religious associations, and 10 registered churches. They cannot tell us in Europe where churches have such opportunities. But it is also important to say what confidence there is in churches within society. If you look at the 1 percent offers: in 2010, 870,000 people offered it, in 2021 it exceeded 1 million 425 thousand people who offered 1 percent. Honourable DK Members, they are hurt when you make faces and hurt them when you threaten them: 1 million 425 thousand people, plus their family members and relatives. Besides, there is confidence in the fact that even in the public education you mentioned, there is a huge number, because now there are 16 percent of the students involved. [[Sic!]] , compared to 6.4 percent in 2010; very high growth. Similarly, in the area of care, there is nearly 50 percent church presence, including elderly care, social care, or any other area. And our responsibility, I think, was very precise in the direction of Hungarians who wanted to forget the left, too, because if we did not support our churches there, we would not help them, then their survival would be much less likely. And I think that over the last 12 years, we have made a huge leap forward in both education and community creation. And here I would like to draw attention to one more area, this is the charitable organisations. In addition to the Red Cross, five church organizations, the Catholic Charity, the Reformed Charity Service, the Maltese Charity Service, the Ecumenical Aid Organization and the Baptist Service have helped a great deal in the last few years in the event of natural disasters, where appropriate not only in Hungary, but elsewhere in the area of the needy and the fallen, and now, during the Russian-Ukrainian crisis and war, thousands and tens of thousands have been helped in recent months. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] If it weren't for them, I'm sure we could have helped them a lot less.
u2022-06-21-34	Thank you.
u2022-06-21-35	We will continue this church policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-21-36	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mónika Dunai, representative of Fidesz, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2022-06-21-37	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and Gentlemen, Secretary of State Ladies and gentlemen, As we look around, everyone can see that the world has changed profoundly over the past few years. There's been massive losses from the corona virus epidemic, there's been a war in Ukraine. The direct consequence of this prolonged war and the answer given in Brussels, the energy sanctions introduced by kamikazes, is that the global economic crisis is unfolding in front of us. New developments are emerging in the world economy and world politics. Hungary's response to the new situation is self-defense. National interests remain our priority. The national interest is to protect our security, whether it is our physical, economic or energy security or the protection of families and homes. There is war inflation, a war economic crisis, honourable Members. We need peace. Because when the war is over, there will be no inflation. As long as the EU finances the war situation, inflation will continue to increase. The economic impact of war is huge inflation in Europe and the world. Energy prices have risen dramatically, and product prices have also increased, partly as a result of sanctions in Brussels. At present, the Hungarian government is the only one in Europe that talks not about sanctions and war, but about the need for peace. The most important goal of the government and Fidesz-KDNP is for Hungary to stay out of the war and not for the Hungarian people to pay the price of the war. The most important task now is to preserve Hungary's peace and security, and to ensure the country's energy supply and to protect the cost reduction. We will also protect the country's security in a prolonged war situation. We protect the cost reduction, we protect jobs, pensions, families. We see that the left also has a strong opinion on the overhead and energy policy: it is quite contrary to ours. On the left, the idea of reducing the rent is that less water should be used, less water should be bathed, so that Hungarians can save money on the ress. The reduction of the rent would certainly be abolished by the left-wing government. These are not new sentences, honourable Members. We can also remember the previous ideas and sentences of the left regarding the reduction of the overhead, which sounded like this: . What a fool it was to reduce the overhead at the time. It is possible to reduce costs, so there is no need to use less water, less electricity, less gas. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian left also shares the same position on fuel prices when it is proposed that people replace the current one with a smaller car as a solution. The leadership of the left is working on how to tax Hungarian people, Hungarian families. We have read that the left-wing leadership of the capital can also work on the emergence of new feats, and that the motorists are once again in the crosshairs of the Christmas Gergelys. The statements in which Deputy Mayor Gergely Christmas's deputy mayor spoke about the measures to restrict transport were followed each other these days. A few days ago, Gábor Kerpel-Fronius, deputy mayor of Momentum, proposed the introduction of the congestion charge on the ATV programme. We and the government still don't support the congestion charge. There is no need to make it financially impossible for those who drive cars, since the capital is already trying to make them impossible by all means, by all means and by all means. [[10.30]] Contrary to the outrageous statements and suggestions of the left, the civil government protects Hungarian people, Hungarian families, instead of using words, instead of raising taxes and charging taxes. For example, measures such as the reduction of overhead costs, the retail interest rate stop, the fuel price and the food price stop. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We are committed to continuing to protect the Hungarian economy, the results achieved so far, the Hungarian families. We're asking the left to do the same...
u2022-06-21-38	Thank you very much...
u2022-06-21-39	... and do not constantly copy your comrades in Brussels, as you are [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, they are probably drinking wine and preaching water, and I do not think that you have changed to airing your clothes instead of washing. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-06-21-40	On behalf of the Government, I give the floor to Secretary Zsófia Koncz.
u2022-06-21-41	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The most important thing for the government is the peace and security of Hungary, the protection of families, the maintenance of energy supply and the preservation of the reduction of electricity. Since 2013, the government has consistently supported the reduction of overhead costs and, as a result, energy prices are the lowest in Hungary today in the European Union. This is a huge achievement; at the last EU summit, we have also managed to protect the reduction of the rent. We believe and believe that people should not pay the price of the war, and that is why the European Commission's proposal to prohibit the use of oil from Russia in Hungary has been stopped. The government's protective measures still do not allow free European electricity and gas prices to appear in domestic retail tariffs. The prices of district heating, gas and electricity decreased by 23 percent on average. Since 2013, as a result of the reduction of the rent, in August 2021 around HUF 2600 billion remained in Hungarian families. The war and sanctions in Brussels have skyrocketed energy prices, affecting almost all products. In this extraordinary situation, the government had to make extraordinary decisions, and against the rise in prices, it introduced its four stop policies - resistop, fuel stop, interest stop and food stop. It is very good news that last week we also announced that the petrol stop and the food stop will be extended until 1 October, and the credit moratorium and the interest stop will be extended until 31 December. Without these measures, Hungarian inflation is likely to be 5-6 percent higher, and therefore the lowest of the Visegrád Four in Hungary today. If officially fixed overhead prices were to cease, the price of electricity would increase by more than 3 times, the price of natural gas would increase by 5.5 times, leading to a total increase of 4.5 times in the average Hungarian family. In such a situation, the protection of families should be preferred to market logic. Therefore, the government's aim has not changed, it will continue to protect Hungarian families and preserve Hungary's stability. The prolonged war and the energy crisis are at risk of another global crisis, so the government has put together a budget to protect the reduction of the rent, the security of the Hungarian people and maintain a safe growth path. For this reason, we have established a Rehabilitation Fund and a Defence Fund. The purpose of the Renewal Fund is to mitigate the effects of a drastic and unpredictable increase in energy prices on the world market, to preserve the results of the reduction in electricity, thereby ensuring the financial security and energy supply of families. We should also remember that Hungary has the cheapest fuel in Europe today, and thanks to the petrol stop, as prices are constantly rising, we can save 16,000 forints with a 50-litre tank. I think this is a huge achievement, which clearly protects the Hungarian population and Hungarian families. Within Europe, there is already a place where the price of fuel reaches 800-900 forints, and there is even 1000 forints in Norway. Micro-enterprises were also at the centre of the previous period, and this remains the same in the future. For this reason, we will continue to ensure the results of the reduction in the costs for around 100,000 small businesses, so this means that they will receive energy at the same discounted price, whether electricity or gas. This measure will certainly have a positive impact on the functioning of small firms. With the support, the government's aim is to keep smaller businesses on their feet and avoid endangering the livelihoods of their owners and families. The protection of jobs was, of course, an outstanding priority for the Hungarian government during the epidemic. We are not willing to give up the security of Hungary's energy supply, and the government's primary objective is to ensure the supply of energy to the population and to maintain the retail cost reduction. Thank you very much for your support. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-06-21-42	Thank you very much, Mrs Zsófia Koncz. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. A joint debate on the rejection of the EU directive on the introduction of a global minimum tax follows in an exceptional procedure. Proposal submitted by the Economic Committee H/279 Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the rapporteur's speech will take place. Before giving the floor, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have a total time frame of 25 minutes for the opening speech, the further speech in the debate and the presentation of the possible closing phrase. I give the floor to Mr Bánki Erik, Chairman of the Economic Committee.
u2022-06-21-43	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal for a decision before us is about opposing the introduction of a global minimum tax, which is well-founded and I believe that in this form Hungary is serving to strengthen the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy. As you know, OECD member countries have started to draw up a proposal that primarily sought to prevent tax evasion of large technological giant companies. These big companies have done everything in their power to build complex and tangled systems that make it almost unsolvable for which countries to tax, and they have done everything they can to ensure that this tax avoidance can take place. According to this draft, these large companies would have to pay a flat corporate profit tax of 15%, with which all countries agreed. However, the European Parliament has started to develop a so-called second pillar in parallel that would extend this general, global minimum tax of 15% not only to giant technology companies but also to all companies. While the development of the European directive is progressing, the Hungarian government is also actively involved in its preparation, but many issues still remain undeveloped. No solutions have yet been found that would have a very sensitive impact on the Hungarian budget. For example, not only in the home country, but also in countries where its subsidiaries operate. We therefore believe that, until we can proceed with the drafting of the directive, we will not be able to develop the details of it, and in particular until the first pillar is developed, which includes a proposal for the taxation of technology giants, it is completely unnecessary to adopt the European directive, because that would mean that we would not only be able to gain a competitive advantage or not to create a budget surplus for the EU Member States, but that we would be even at a competitive disadvantage for US large companies and Chinese large companies. [[10.40]] In particular, how this proposal would affect Hungary, the 15 percent global minimum tax would effectively double the average tax burden on businesses, as it is now 7.5 percent. You can say this, as you have said, that Hungary is a tax haven, because indeed, the lowest tax rate of 9 percent in Europe is in Hungary, but we have reduced the level of corporate tax to encourage businesses not to take out their profits from Hungary and not to tax them elsewhere, and to encourage companies that have several countries to tax in Hungary, because here is a favourable tax environment that can inspire them to pay corporate tax here and invest profits in other businesses in Hungary. I also do not think that this average tax burden of 7.5 percent is low, because in the United States exactly the same, 7.5 percent is the average tax burden on US companies. So, speaking of global taxation, while we are talking about a global market and market competition, I also think that we should not lose sight of this. The Russian-Ukrainian war has completely transformed the world economy, launched an extreme war inflation that has swept across the world and which encourages the political leadership of all countries to make proposals, ideas that will not continue to burden the system, but help to boost the economy, help maintain economic growth, or help companies to minimise the downturn. Let's look at the details, ladies and gentlemen. In October 2021, the OECD concluded a two-pillar policy agreement to address tax challenges related to economic digitalisation. This is the system I was talking about. 137 States shall participate in this Agreement. Of all the Member States of the European Union, only Cyprus is not part of this agreement. During the negotiations, the focus has gradually shifted, as I have mentioned to you, from the taxation of digital giant companies to the introduction of a sector-independent global minimum tax. Why did this happen, fellow Members? Well, it happened precisely because the United States realized that he had no interest in it at all. Let's see how politicians in the United States think about this matter. This is important only because from this we can see when we can expect the so-called first pillar to be adopted, which is clearly sabotaged by the United States, and when it makes sense that the second pillar, the European Union directive, will be adopted without putting us at a competitive disadvantage. Republican federal senator Rick Scott said: "This two-pillar solution poses a significant threat to today's and future American competitiveness. He's talking about the same thing we're talking about. It is not in the interest of American taxpayers, job creators and American families. As long as there are issues relating to global taxation that need to be dealt with in the framework of necessary and justified international cooperation, in which it is also important that each country retains its sovereignty over its own tax laws and tax legislation, there is no point in introducing this. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, But we can see what federal senator Mike Crapo thought of the same thing as the senior finance committee. He says:. The most dangerous current issue is the global minimum tax, which would put an end to the tax competition. So instead of competing with lower taxes and cheaper bureaucracy, are we going to compete with lower wages? - Absolutely the right approach, fellow Members. America doesn't want to compete in this area, says the senator. He then adds: "I am confident that this draft will never be accepted by the United States of America, because it would be a huge mistake. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, But we can also look at what Senator Pat Toomey, a member of the budget committee, has said about this:. This is a terrible idea. Why would we want to double the global minimum tax? This is a very bad approach, because we would put our own companies at a competitive disadvantage. The fact that we are trying to convince other countries to raise taxes would be a quasi-acceptance of the damage we are doing to our own country. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Ladies and Gentlemen, These statements, the thinking of American politicians, make it clear that they do not want to accept this first pillar, the agreement on the taxation of giant technology companies. This is perfectly demonstrated by the delay in preparation. The OECD leadership has already admitted that from January it has no chance of introducing this, so from 1 January 2023 it is certain that it will not be introduced; they are already talking about the possibility of introducing it in January 2024, which means that it is not certain that this will happen even in January next year. So the fact that we are rushing ahead in this situation and that Europe is adopting an agreement that limits our own room of manoeuvre, so that the additional tax revenue that we expected from the original proposal will not happen, but that there will be additional expenditure for our own companies, while we Hungarians, for example, do not know how our budget will benefit from this new system, how much our additional revenue will be, and how much our additional expenditure will otherwise be, the saldo will affect us negatively, will not change the state of the budget or possibly make it worse, we will not see any sense if we support the adoption of such an agreement, such a directive. So we don't have a problem with the principle itself. We said that if the Member States of the European Union decide to do so, Hungary will also support it. We believe that we also have competitive advantages which, in addition, we can maintain the ability to attract capital that, in recent years, if we take, say, the last five years, we were usually the first to take turns with the Czech Republic in the European Union, who were able to involve the largest amount of working capital in Hungary. So, ladies and gentlemen, I think it would be a rash and hasty decision to accept this. I ask everyone to support our resolution proposal. Let us give ourselves the time to develop the best possible format and ask the government to continue to represent the interests of Hungary and the Hungarian people in the preparatory negotiations. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-21-44	I thank Erik Bánki for his speech. I would like to inform you that you will have more than 15 minutes and one or two seconds to speak, comment and at the end of the debate. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if someone from the government wants to speak. [[For signal:]] Yes, Deputy Minister András Tállai has indicated his intention to speak. Before giving the floor, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you can express your position in the consolidated debate within a total period of 15 minutes. You have the floor, Mr. Deputy Minister.
u2022-06-21-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by supporting the proposal for a decision of the Economic Committee on the part of the government. The draft directive builds on the model rules for the global minimum tax adopted by the OECD in December 2021, as we have heard, which have been developed by international agreement as a result of work involving more than 140 countries. Hungary has also been actively involved in the development process, supporting the fight against international tax evasion as a fundamental objective. The proposal for a global minimum tax is aimed at achieving a minimum tax rate of 15% for multinational groups, so that if a member of a multinational company pays income tax lower than the minimum level required in a given country, the difference must be paid in the form of an additional tax burden. This new system would ensure that, in the event of undertaxation in a state, the tax that is missing to the minimum level will surely have to be paid somewhere. It is expected that this will motivate companies not to settle in a given country solely because of the low tax liability, but not solely on the basis of tax motivations. [[10.50]] The OECD, i.e. the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, started to develop a framework for global minimido regulation in 2019. As we have heard from Congressman Bánki Erik, the basic idea originally was for states to tax digital giant companies under uniform rules so that it would not occur that technology giants would pay a fraction of the tax that a locally operating, say, manufacturing company would pay. In recent years, the artificial tax avoidance arrangements of global large companies have indeed reduced the public budget by significant amounts, and international action is justified and necessary. In the 2010s, unprecedented progress was made in this area, which Hungary was actively involved in. The rules for automatic international exchange of information have developed significantly. The OECD has developed a new multilateral convention to override the obsolete provisions of previously concluded tax conventions and has also developed a number of further proposals to close frequent tax avoidance channels. Hungary has supported and transposed these preferences into its legal system. The original goal was therefore to tax where there is value creation, real activity, consumption. However, the process took a completely different direction in the process. Instead of just taxing giant companies, developed economies are now working to set a minimum tax level for corporate taxation. The purpose of the planned mechanism is to establish a minimum level of taxation and, if the tax paid in a subsidiary country is below the minimum level, the difference may be collected by the country of the parent company. If they do not take advantage of this option, the countries of the other subsidiaries would have a way of collecting the tax. In Hungary, there is currently 9 percent corporate tax, with this country collecting the lowest level of public service in the European Union. This represents a significant advantage in international economic competition. If, on the basis of the EU rules transposing the OECD Global Minimado Rules, the minimum tax of 15% is introduced in the Member States, a German company operating in Hungary would, for example, pay 9 percent of the Hungarian budget and 6 percent of the German treasury after the German parent company, after the result of its operation in Hungary. The aim of the proposal for the largest economies is therefore precisely to eliminate tax competition which is clearly negative for high-tax countries. As a result, the idea is unfair and tries to repel countries such as Hungary in development. The adoption of the draft directive could lead to the loss of tax advantage for countries that have not done so, thanks to years of hard work and progress in economic whitening. Therefore, Hungary continues to insist that every state should be given the widest possible leeway to shape its tax rules, and financial sovereignty should continue to cover the definition of the essential elements of the tax system. Although Hungary continues to support the general objectives of introducing the global minimum tax set out in the OECD Declaration of October 2021, we see that the international environment has changed significantly over the past period, making the adoption of the EU Directive impossible in the current situation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-21-46	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. I would like to inform you that you will have 8 minutes and 46 seconds to speak further during the debate. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Ovádi, rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, within a 15-minute time frame. [[For signal:]] Mr. Congressman is not present, then the Members' speeches will follow. I would like to draw your attention to the factions' availability of 30 to 30 minutes. First, the keynote speeches will take place, so I give the floor to Mr Kristóf Szatmáry, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2022-06-21-47	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Mr. Secretary. In the context of the discussion of the proposal we have just tabled, we can also report on the debate at the committee's meeting, and I can confirm at the outset, perhaps quite clearly, that we are in favour of the motion tabled by the Fidesz fraction. To justify our position in detail, I would like to draw a parallel to the proposal, and this parallel, although it may be a little strong, but what we see in the context of the introduction of a global minimum tax, as in the case of sanctions introduced in the context of the Russian-Ukrainian conflict, is that there is a good cause, a goal that I think everyone can support; this was the objective that was set out in the first pillar of the OECD, so to say, that we were to tax large cross-border international techs in some way. I think that if this proposal were on the table now, everyone in this House would be able to support it regardless of party standing. But how this original proposal has turned into a proposal that is particularly harmful for the Hungarian economy is a good example of one of the biggest cancers in Brussels, which is that a significant part of European bureaucrats are not looking at the interests of Europe and not of the European people, and of the Hungarian people, among other things, but are trying to keep some vague international goals in mind. It is thus possible, in parallel with EU sanctions, that practically at the end of it, proposals are made that are sometimes said to be more painful to those who impose sanctions than to those against whom they are directed. This is also about the fact that it is practically the first pillar, perhaps for those who know the story, it does not need to be specifically explained how a second pillar has become from its proposals, which, although it seems to serve the same purpose, would have a very, very damaging effect on the Hungarian national economy and many European economies. I mean, while in the first pillar we were talking about the large tech companies we all know... and here it might also be worth a separate parliamentary debate on how they play out not only the tax legislative environment of the Hungarian but also many European countries, how even Hungarian companies and Hungarian people spend billions in these companies without getting a block on it, I now tell the story with a little simplification and how these companies optimize their taxation in such a way that they have to pay as little as possible. The objective, which was originally born in the OECD so that these companies would have an international framework that everyone would accept, which is to prevent these large companies from getting out of taxation, is an absolutely eligible proposal. A separate story is how this proposal, which is no longer referring to tech companies, has been transformed into a second pillar in a year and a half, is not that this tax difference has to be paid by the company in the country in question, thus evening practically the competitive position with regard to large companies, but transforming itself into a general global minimum tax, which, as has been said by the Secretary of State or by the authors, has turned into a tax that serves virtually nothing but the ambition of large economic centres to try to impose their own market protection on other countries by imposing a tax increase. [[Sic!]] [[11.00]] (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Overall, the story itself, I think, is very instructive. It is important to pay close attention to how such proposals attempt to undermine the sovereignty of countries with Hungarian or Hungarian exposures in Brussels and global financial circles. The story of this whole minimalist shows exactly how for a good purpose a tool will eventually be more damaging than the achievement of the goals set out in the original proposal. Overall, it can be seen that the two pillars, which are included in the proposal submitted, in the present circumstances, especially as stated in the introduction, are that the individual pillar, which would serve the right purpose, and here we are talking mainly about large tech companies in the US, have actually gone into the invisible future, and without it, the two pillars only have negative consequences for Hungary, so the introduction of the minimum tax is not acceptable for Hungary and the Hungarian people at the moment. Therefore, the proposal for a decision can be clearly supported on our part. There's one more thing I'd like to discuss. In the debate, it will probably be said by opposition representatives that they are trying to draw some kind of parallel with the government's now introduced extra taxes and the adoption of the proposal. Here, however, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow opposition Members from the beginning to two fundamental differences. One of them is that the extra-profit tax introduced now takes a very targeted, sectoral part of the profits of the beneficiaries of the current crisis and temporarily takes it away, while the second pillar that is now rejected would mean a general tax, practically independent of sectors, and not on a temporary basis, but on a continuous basis, I say once again, causing very negative effects on the Hungarian economy. So there is no comparison between the two taxes, one support and the other rejection. And once again, this is a good example of a good purpose becoming a bad instrument. In this respect, I can conclude by saying that we fully support the proposal tabled by the Fidesz fraction. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-21-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Ferenc David, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2022-06-21-49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, The joint history of the Orbán government and the global minimum tax tells everything about why the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian budget and Hungarian diplomacy are in a bad situation. There is a comprehensive, forward-looking proposal in the workshop of the European Union, which is welcomed by the world and the community of the European Union, and there is a single government, the Hungarian, who wants to prevent it, for everyone else, why this is wrong. [[Sic!]] The Orbán government cannot survive without conflict, even if it is in Hungary's interests. By rejecting the global minimum tax, the government represents anti-national behaviour, causing serious economic, financial and diplomatic damage. What's this really about? The global minimum tax, which is planned to take effect from 2023, will apply to international groups of companies with consolidated turnover above EUR 750 million. In Hungary, this is expected to increase the tax burden of multinational companies by HUF 20-160 billion. A breakthrough is the global minimum tax on international taxation, because by aligning the corporate tax rules of nearly 140 countries, it creates the basis for a global social tax system. The 15 per cent performance-based new tax base expected to be introduced from 2023 will apply to international groups of companies. In the Economic Committee, which was convened quickly last week, we already had cause for incompetence and suspicion. Referring to the Russian-Ukrainian war, which is in fact Russian aggression against an independent state and referring to inflation and the economic crisis, the Fidesz majority adopted the following proposal in the Economic Committee. I quote literally: the Parliament opposes the adoption of a draft Council directive on the global level of minimido applicable to multinational groups in the Union. I would like to stop here and signal that Fidesz is against it here, even though we have asked the committee to postpone it. This request was rejected. I, along with my fellow Members, protested against the inclusion on the agenda, since the discussion of such a matter should have been thoroughly prepared. That didn't happen. Nevertheless, the majority of Fidesz forced a sudden decision. Ladies and gentlemen, While the Orbán government is imposing a revenue-based extra-profit tax on food trade, medicine, and I will no longer list it, and because of inflation everything is expensive in Hungary today, but it has not imposed taxes on, for example, companies that have ceased breathing machinery trading since then, and it protects foreigners instead of Hungarian businesses. In the cata case, he keeps a multitude of businesses uncertain, but it seems that the foreign multinational is saved. All the Member States of Europe, whether left-wing or right-wing, support these billion-dollar companies to contribute to European development, as they are also enriched by European citizens. However, the Orbán government is giving up this money, and rather it is hurting its own citizens and Hungarian businesses. The fact that the Orbán government rejects the global minimum tax has led me to assume that the Fidesz representatives and the government intend not to impose any additional payment obligation on the taxable persons of their designated, yet again, turnover-based extra-profit, retail, aviation, financial institutions and insurance companies, too, on other international corporations. That is to say, I am interested in the production sector, and global companies that are friendly with Fidesz should not be threatened by the horror of the introduction of a global minimum tax. Fidesz was clearly in favour of the large multinational global companies. Moreover, a large part of these companies, hiding profits, escapes real taxation in tax havens. Not to mention that some of the companies are also causing significant environmental damage. So the Orbán government, by rejecting the global minimum tax, supports tax evasion, at the same time giving up the fight to protect our environment, for the future of our children and grandchildren. It is not difficult to assume that the government or pro-government representatives may be in the pocket of certain multinationals one way or another. There is hardly any other explanation, since the rejection of the global multi-tax in Orbán makes the Hungarian budget worse, exposes the exchange rate of the forint to further uncertainty, and further weakens the already fragile confidence in the Hungarian financial system. The budget deficit is a record one, the forint has never been so weak, the Orbán government tries to maintain the country's solvency with huge borrowings. [[11.10]] Meanwhile, nothing else happens but to take back pre-election welfare expenses from the people who forgot to talk about it before the election, i.e. they cheated the Hungarians. It will be difficult to explain why the government, which is supposedly always working for the Hungarian people, is working day and night for the Hungarian people, is okay, that the losses of airlines need tax forints for the crappy budget, but some of the profits of the truly profitable transnational businesses do not need to be. Ladies and gentlemen, Would it really be the Hungarian nation, representing the interests of the Hungarian people, that the government would allow record inflation to break loose, but should the multi-tax no more? Millions of Hungarians who live on wages and salaries pay more for beach, flaming, meat, fruit, vegetables, stroller, car repair, practically anything, more and more, even 500 billion more a year, but do not increase the taxes of the global company? Would it really be the Hungarian nation, representing the interests of the Hungarian people, that the Orbán government raises postal charges, but the world company should not pay any more? Would it really be the representation of the interests of the Hungarian nation, the Hungarian people, that the Orbán government raises the burden of banks and credit institutions, which are all passing on to people, and they are paying more for it again, but the global company is not? Hungarian micro- and small- and medium-sized enterprises are moaning for increased burdens, but world companies should not pay any more! The Hungarian man should pay more for the phone, but the world company should not pay any more! The Hungarian people should pay more housing loans, but the world company should not pay any more! Are you sure this is in the interests of the Hungarians? The burden of global companies that are also destructive, rich and sometimes tax avoidance should not increase, but the burden of Hungarian small people and Hungarian municipalities should? Mayor of Székesfehérvár, András Cser-Palkovics, is complaining about inability to pay any more taxes? Ladies and gentlemen, The tax on global companies is useful, not just because the Democratic Coalition promised to introduce it in the 2019 European Parliament election campaign. It was clear to us at the time that it was necessary to put an end to the fact that the biggest, richest companies in one of the tax havens avoid paying taxes. There is now a transnational agreement on this in the EU. And then Mihály Varga or Viktor Orbán arrives and says no. The Hungarian Finance Minister stated that in the current geopolitical situation, large foreign companies suffer significant losses and should not be bullied. Why is there no emergency bells at the Minister of Finance or the Prime Minister when the brutal restrictions on the Orbán package have been thrown into the hands of the Hungarian people in recent weeks? Fair Hungarian families can therefore be humiliated, but not companies with a turnover of EUR billion. The problem, ladies and gentlemen, is that Viktor Orbán is peeping from the back pockets of these global companies. He does not need the extra income, which could also be used for education, health care and the support of Hungarian companies, if the mutual commitment and global companies could be harmed. The basis of the responsible left-wing policy is that where there is greater wealth, there is greater responsibility, this is what the Democratic Coalition says. What I understand is that Viktor Orbán is socially insensitive, and the government of foreign corporations and the rich does not fit into his worldview, but I will not accept that this attitude would endanger the country's long-term interests and the short-term survival of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. This cannot be done by a European government, and I must state that this cannot be done by a responsible and legitimate European government. There is another consequence of this new foolish and damaging decision in Orbán, apart from falling away from this money, and that the brutal Orbán austerity package hits the Hungarian people, it also destroys many people, and this is the diplomatic loss. By saying no to the global multi-tax alone, Mr Orbán has once again succeeded in proving that he is unable to cooperate, unable to represent national and European interests together. The Orbán government has even more isolated itself in Europe with this veto. The Hungarian Prime Minister comes and goes to Brussels courtrooms alone, deserted, and now everyone looks through it. [[It's an interrogation from the ruling parties.]] If you said no to the global multi-tax in order to blackmail the European Union in order to receive the money withheld from breaking the rule of law, then you are obviously mistaken. This makes the EU's money taps even less open, despite going to beg Tibor Navracsics, the European Union's decision to make the European Union able to decide without the Hungarian government and without any consensus. The Orbán government is left with the humiliation of the Hungarians, with the global companies the doty business, and the crumbling budget supported by borrowings. Ladies and gentlemen, Europe and the world know the way. The Democratic Coalition and Klára Dobrev [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] said before the 2019 European Parliament elections [[Intercoms in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Fighting for the European minimum wage and greater burden for large global companies. Both of our promises are going well. This is in Hungary, this is in the interests of the Hungarian nation and this is in the interests of the Hungarians. So if we can do so, less burden for already burdened Hungarian families and more burden for wealthy global companies! Orbán may sometimes put the stick between the spokes, slowing down a process, but he cannot achieve his goal. A minimum tax on global companies will be created, as will the European minimum wage. I know that the Orbán government and Fidesz can never correct any mistake, any sin they commit, they're like the man who flipped over the bike: that's how they wanted to get off. However, before the vote, I ask the pro-government representatives not to vote to destroy and increase the burden on Hungarian people, so let the global minimum tax make the distribution of burdens more fair and evener. You can believe that the leaders of other EU countries are not stupid and do not want to harm the citizens of their own nation when they all support the global minimum tax. For the sake of the Hungarians, you also support it! Thank you very much for your patience. [[Applause in the ranks of MSZP and Momentum.]]
u2022-06-21-50	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Hollik, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2022-06-21-51	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Before I present KDNP's position, I am obliged to respond briefly to the left-wing opinion that has been expressed. We're not disappointed, we're not disappointed. Looks like the left is changing passwords. Proletarians of the world, unite! Instead of now, it seems that the globeists of the world, unite! They chose a password for themselves, because it seems that even though there is uncertainty in the environment, there is an unprepared proposal, if a proposal contains the word "globe" and a proposal contains a tax increase, it is supported by the left without question. It's very unfortunate that this is true. We have seen that this kind of approach leads to bankruptcy, because during their governance these arguments have been enforced, and this has led to Hungary's bankruptcy, but it seems that they do not want to change that. My fellow Member says that if we make criticisms, we point to unpreparedness, then we are actually in favour of tax evasion. I would like to draw the Member's attention to the fact that when you governed, the level of tax avoidance in Hungary was multiple, as it is today. Do you know why that is? Because the tax burden was significantly higher and there is a very simple truth in the economy: if the taxes are higher, businesses will try to avoid it. The lower the tax rate, the higher the tax rate [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You didn't mean that either!]] the willingness to pay it off. You may have actually experienced this, but you don't seem to be able to learn from it either. The fact is that there is a spooky resemblance now between the global minimum tax and the question or debate of the oil embargo. Europe seems to want to accept this proposal by not looking at or ignoring the consequences for it. [[11.20]] Only the majority of the Hungarian government and the majority of the Hungarian Parliament, who are pro-government, can provide the arguments on the basis of which we must state that this is an unprepared proposal today, although we agree with the principle, but we must not accept it. I don't know how the congressman remembers it, but the Dutch Prime Minister is not a great friend of Hungary, the Hungarian government, even he acknowledged afterwards, after the oil embargo debate, that Hungary was right, by the way, that nation-state considerations should be taken into account. I believe that we must do the same with regard to the proposal for a global minimum tax. As regards the KDNP aspects, most of them have been presented by President Erik Bánki and the Secretary of State, I would like to add a few other points to this. The fundamental difference between us and you is that you want to create regulations based on abstract ideologies and dogmas, but we say that we should start from reality, and that is now, in this war environment, quite justified. Because when the OECD launched this initiative, it was not yet a Covid epidemic, but certainly not a war. Yes, these two factors have a significant impact on the world economy, as there is war inflation, there is an energy crisis in Western Europe, and inflation affects not only Europe but also the United States of America. In this situation, a proposal which in itself means a tax increase, a levying of another tax, is not the solution, but only adds to the problem. Speaking of risks to the external environment, this is President Erik Bánki, who has mentioned certain American politicians who are opposed to this regulation. Let me add to this, since we are talking about reality and real risks, that America is preparing for a mid-term election, and that is a significant risk, because it is quite obvious, as the President said, that America will certainly not accept anything until then. Based on our current knowledge, if you look at the polls, you can see that there is a better chance of lawmaking for Republicans, who, by the way, are fiercely opposed to the proposal of this global minimum tax. So the European Union can irresponsiblely steer itself into a situation where we now run forward like a good student, vote in favour of the global minimum tax, and then, in the mid-term elections, the Republicans are the majority in legislation, and America does not accept it, and then Europe is the only one left. Obviously, such a global tax, as its name shows, only makes sense if it is introduced by all the major economic powers, if one of them is out of line, then it doesn't make any sense. This is a significant risk, and since you wouldn't be aware of it at all, it's probably because you don't want to be aware of the reality. The next aspect is the EU tax environment. Ladies and gentlemen, We are talking about the introduction of a 15% minimum tax. Let me inform you that in France, corporate tax is 32 percent, corporate tax in Germany is 25 percent. In Japan 25, but stay in Europe: in Italy, corporate tax is 23 percent, in the Netherlands 20 percent, in Luxembourg 20 percent; not EU member, but in Switzerland 16 percent. It can be seen that this minimum tax introduction does not mean anything to large European economies, since corporate tax is already much higher than 15%. This is our competitive advantage, which we have, since we have a 9 per cent tax, that is what this proposal would take away. It doesn't hurt them, but it hurts Hungary; it hurts us that you refuse to accept it. We also think that financial sovereignty is very important and that it can be narrowed down in justified cases. The fundamental idea of taxing large global tech companies would give us a reason to limit our financial sovereignty, which means defining tax legislation, here. But you do not want to take into account that this is no longer the case, because today, these large global tech companies are missing out. So the adoption of the first pillar is flawed and they want to adopt the second pillar that was created. I would also like to say that, as Parliamentary Secretary Tállai said here, the Hungarian Government is still taking part in the drafting of the package of proposals at the further working committee meeting, and we have substantive proposals. By the way, Fidesz and KDNP support these so that, for example, the business tax can be included, so that it can be deducted from this. Or, as my fellow Member Kristóf Szatmáry has already mentioned here, it makes sense or we consider this global minimum tax to be really useful if this large company is taxed in the country of activity, because you know the reality, that if we start from the original idea, then these large global tech companies have set up a subsidiary company in a total of one European country on the basis of tax considerations. We are not much further into the fact that, by the way, Facebook is paying taxes in Ireland thanks to the global minimum tax, but, by the way, despite its activities here in Hungary, it pays significantly less taxes if it pays any taxes at all. So we support these government proposals, and we agree that the proposal for a global minimum tax is unprepared in its current form, which is why KDNP will vote in favour of this proposal for a decision. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-21-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group. Here you go.
u2022-06-21-53	Mr President, Dear House, Perhaps it is only fair that a person's position can be read in the first sentences, and then there is no room for further misconception. I am basically in favour of the involvement of multi-enterprises in public burdens, so the multi-protect position that Hungary's current government is taking is not so supportive. At the same time, I do not support transfer of sovereignty, so it is clear that if we were to vote on the current package of the global minimum tax, which, by the way, is roughly the European minimum tax, I would not be able to support it with a good heart. At the same time, it should be noted that, at the Economic Committee meeting, the pro-government majority did not vote to postpone the proposal, to establish its various conditions, or to forgive it, a European-level freedom fight, because this could be a sensible freedom fight on the Brussels scene. But somehow, the government's courage to cross borders will run out, and it will remain the unconditional protection of multi-company companies. So let's just say this again: I fully support the inclusion of multinationals in public burdens, not unconditional transfer of sovereignty. Indeed, it would be simpler if the first pillar pack were in front of us, I think Fidesz would be able to support it, even though it would be against its own policy. Because what Fidesz-KDNP has done since 2010 in relation to multi-company activities, it is not by accident that it hides it in a shy way. He is a vet horse for the government of Fidesz: outwards constant combative rhetoric, continuous war psychosis, but when it comes to German car manufacturers and multinationals, there is unconditional service and full surrender. This is practically how Fidesz's policy has been summarised since 2010. We have heard the most harsh confessions from my fellow Member Hollik, who has read nicely where 25, 32 and 20 percent of the corporate tax rates are in the European countries, obviously it is a different type of economy. But the President also rightly added that, yes, it is possible to call the tax rate of tax havens that applies to multinational companies in Hungary, even more harshly, that when this one key was set up, it was a 1 percentage point concession for Hungarian small entrepreneurs and practically half of the tax was released to the multinationals. Even then, the multi-company has made a profit of a thousand billion per year, and the Government of Hungary is idly watching and letting this be played out in the country without paying any tax. We used to argue about this in the Economic Committee, at the time there was about 3000 billion waiting for VAT and for a long time there was about 300 billion waiting for corporate tax, so there was a gap between VAT collected and corporate tax. [[11.30]] We are now at the point that all VAT or similar income expectations are already reaching 7,000 billion, and corporate tax is still an incomplete column in the budget, because there are plenty of companies that essentially avoid public burdens in Hungary. The situation is even worse if we look at the real strategic partners and real alliances of the Orbán government, these multinationals. We see that there are multinational companies in the Hungarian market who are minus in terms of taxes, so the Orbán government supports the multi-company with more than the total tax or any form of payment. We can also see that the brutal increase in the volume of grants is also linked to Fidesz. Before 2010, I criticized a lot about the economic policy course I didn't like, and I insulted them about why they gave so much non-refundable support to multi-enterprises; if they want to come here and do profitable activities here, we shouldn't give them any extra credit, find their calculation on the market. The fact is that, compared to the pre-2010 period, the Orbán government has tripled its support for multinationals and has started to finance companies for which there was no relevance and no justification. We also see that when the Fidesz MEP talks about a possible competitive disadvantage, he tells us how they practically imagine Hungary's position in the global competition. You imagine that there is a tax rate typical of tax haven states for multinationals, a consciously suppressed, brutally low wage level, which you insist on maintaining, and you can also say that the tax burden corresponding to public burdens is not imposed, grants are granted, and consciously weakens the forint, also in the interest of exporting multinationals. At 260 forints, there were fidesz comments that only weak people here could want weak forints; now we're over 400. What we see is that this whole flow chart is about Fidesz serving the multinational companies coming here in everything: it does not even contribute to the increase in the wage level allowed by productivity; it has not contributed to the strengthening of the various forms of employee protection in Hungary. These are consciously suppressed, and when, due to the lack of labour, the Hungarian employee has a slightly bigger word, what does the Orbán government do? He knowingly imports hundreds of thousands of workers from the third world. Last year, early September, with another regulation, you now enter into cooperation agreements with Vietnam, Kazakhstan, Mongolia, and bring in tens of thousands of workers who are not naive and hypocritical! They break the wage level, and this makes it difficult for Hungarian workers to enforce workers' rights. So this is about the quintessence of Fidesz's serbile, self-sender, multi-protecting policy, and this is certainly not the image of a right-wing national government. This is the image of such a technocratic, a little globalist and a government that is too low in the global value chain, which is humiliating for Hungary. That's how we got to the minimum global tax. I can accept that if we do not have a global minimum tax, but then let the Government of Hungary implement the burden-sharing, then let us start arguing about the key to corporate tax and arguing about non-refundable subsidies. These are requested and stopped, or stand up by a fidesz representative, and explain to us the point of granting non-refundable subsidies to German car manufacturers, in this order of magnitude. It's quite simply inexplicable, the way you're getting involved with these companies. You should explain the government's position, say on CETA or on free trade agreements, as we also see here that they have a two-lucent policy: within the EU they also vote in favour of free trade agreements involving total surrender of Hungarian national interest, sometimes arguing with them at home and sometimes not clarifying their position. In CETA, for example, we still do not know what the Orbán governments are willing to do and how far they will go. We must also say that if my fellow Members were honest, I could also support taxation in the country of activity. The fact is that you in committee did not vote for this, you did not vote for going out on the international stage, and you continue to argue about how this could be done, you did not vote for a postponement, but you are already practically fighting at the level and stage of a directive against a proposal that could be done well. Indeed, I would not like it if only a European minimum tax were to take place, I would not like it at all. It makes sense if we can do something about public burdens on a global scale. At the same time, the fact that the government calls the inclusion of multinationals as a competitive disadvantage in the public burden again says a lot about itself. Do you still want to compete with low wages or with the flexible labour code? So, is Hungary really so held up that, as such a assembly country, the various quarterly offers of German car manufacturers should be at the mercy of our GDP data? I don't think that's all there is in Hungary, there's a lot more in the country. And we also see that we will not vote on the first pillar, and we will not only vote on global tech companies, but we also see that this is not credible from the Government of Hungary until it is even willing to argue about why it spoils these global chains at such a level. I always think about how the government allows itself a critical voice against globalisation, how in reality it provides Hungarian workers, how it provides the entire Hungarian market. I am taking action against the transfer of sovereignty, there is no debate between us, but the government is questioning the foundation of our sovereignty when it consciously places Hungary on a low shelf, when it has not basically raised any obstacles to forced emigration. You knew in advance when the Austrian market would open, you knew in advance when the German market would open, and when it would be easier to go out to Britain to work; you did nothing about it, you did nothing about the forced exodus of hundreds of thousands. As I understand it, even the young person in charge of drawing up a calling programme emigrated abroad, but, of course, it's just a personal thread, you could smile on it now, but the problem is much bigger than that. The fact is that here, with a comprehensive home-building, rental-building programme, a real, more extensive family support system, these young people could have been kept in Hungary, or many could still be lured home. And demography, the amazing demographic winter, is the last factor that this government has failed to do anything with. Of course, let us not discuss the increase in fertility rates since 2010, which we have listened to today in the hour before the agenda. Fortunately, this happened in all the neighbouring countries, much later in Hungary than elsewhere, but this number has now started to decline again, and the number of live births in written history has not been as low as in these months in Hungary, so there is a huge problem. If we are talking about our sovereignty, we also need to talk about sustainability issues such as demography, and the Government of Hungary cannot politely say that it does not care or is satisfied with what it has done; much more needs to be done. To sum up, I do not support transfer of sovereignty, but I strongly expect multi-enterprises to be placed under public burdens, we expect the government to stop and renegotiate the entire package of grants; we expect the renegotiation of strategic contracts, concluding with at least an increase in the Hungarian wage level permitted by productivity and guaranteeing workers' rights, at all, by allowing the classical trade unionisation, because this has shown a suppressed formula in recent years. If the Government of Hungary has done all of this, then it can prove itself to its own Hungarian employees, because until then what you have talked about will only remain a package that protects several companies. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the opposition ranks.]]
u2022-06-21-54	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Anna Russian, the lead speaker of the Group of the Momentum. Here you go.
u2022-06-21-55	Thank you very much for the floor. Last Monday afternoon, at 2:30 p.m., we received a text from the next Economic Committee meeting, which took place an hour and a half later at 3:00 p.m. The subject was the rejection of the Global Minimum Tax Directive. A week later, they managed to overcome this, because 56 minutes before the next Economic Committee meeting, we were informed that they wanted to amend their own motion. Today, in an exceptional procedure, Parliament will discuss the issue of a minimum global tax, which you will obviously vote for. Since there is nothing new for us about you evacuating the functioning of Parliament, I do not want to waste much of a word on how it is possible, however, that the procedure of the committee and of Parliament on such a serious issue is so slendrian. [[11.40]] For the record, I would like to point out that in the committees of the newbuda municipality, I am used to receiving notification and detailed justification at least five days earlier. In addition to my comments on the processes, this proposal for a resolution is unexpected from Fidesz because just six months ago, in the autumn of 2021, when 137 countries of the world agreed to introduce the global minimum tax, Hungary agreed to this, and even Mihály Varga and Péter Szijjártó ministers, bidding on each other, praised the latest draft global minimum tax. Mihály Varga said: "We have achieved a very serious result, I can safely say that a Hungarian success has been achieved. And Péter Szijjártó said that a compromise on the global minimum tax has been reached that can be managed from the point of view of the Hungarian economy, and this proves that it is worth fighting for national interests. I'm sorry, that was six months ago. Since the 1980s, the world's countries have been in downward competition with each other at the rate of corporate tax. Governments cut the wood themselves and cut it apart, reducing the tax rates imposed on companies over and over again. At that time the most common rate of corporate tax was around 40-50 percent, today the same rate is between 20-25 percent, and in Hungary it is even lower, 9 percent. With this tax rate, multinational companies will benefit, and citizens will benefit badly, as this will reduce the amount paid by companies to the state register, from which schools, hospitals, jobs could be developed and invested in our future. Of course, this low tax rate may temporarily result in more investment, but if we do not invest in education and our future, then this momentary advantage could also quickly have a lasting disadvantage. This downward competition has been strengthened by globalisation and digitalisation, which makes it increasingly difficult to monitor where, what economic activity companies carry out at the level of revenue and profits, and more and more international multinational companies tax in tax havens. As a result of this process, up to $150 billion of potential tax revenue is lost globally in this malfunctioning system every year. As long as governments do not cooperate with each other in order to break this vicious circle, even for companies, there will be no solution to this situation. The global minimum tax, which you supported a few months ago, is a solution to precisely this problem, a solution that, on the one hand, provides a minimum tax rate for all countries, under which no government can promise. On the other hand, this proposal also ensures that the tax rate does not jeopardise the competitiveness of countries, since the tax is a floor value over which countries are free to compete and which is low enough not to discourage anyone from investing. I would therefore like to ask you, rather than beg questions about the process of the Commission and plenary. First question: if the proposal adopted by 137 countries was suddenly to blackmail the European Union in order to pay Hungary the funds of the Restoration Fund, then my question to you is why you do not pay the Restoration Fund by joining the European Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, by using EU funds transparently or by cooperating with the European Anti-Fraud Office to prevent abuse. My second question: if you really are concerned about the competitiveness of the crisis... and of Hungary, why didn't you do the same when a penalty tax was imposed on many loss-making companies a few weeks ago, which you knew would immediately pass the burden on to the population, who are constantly paying higher prices, and this measure will only continue to fuel inflation? Or why aren't there any Fidesz-near oligarchs, casino owners, construction contractors, or, say, mine owners among the extra-profit subjects? Their argument for the penalty tax is that in times of crisis more public burdens can be expected from companies. What happened? I ask you, in two weeks' time, have you suddenly begun to worry about companies with a turnover of over HUF 300 billion who would be subject to the global minimum tax? And my last question: instead of putting the key to corporate tax in the ground, why don't you invest in knowledge, research, development? We do not want to be competitive thanks to the unrealistically low tax on cheap labour and multinationals, just as companies do not make business decisions solely on the basis of tax rates. A good education system with respected teachers, a skilled workforce, a predictable business environment, cooperation between the state, companies and employees, are values that pay off in the economy. If that were not the case, there would be no investment to the west of us or in our region, where the key to corporate tax is one by one, as my fellow Member Hollik said, but there is a better state of public and higher education, health, and a more reliable government. The Momentum fraction therefore clearly does not support your short-sighted and irresponsible proposal to reject the global minimum tax. Thank you. [[Applause on the opposition side.]]
u2022-06-21-56	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Vajda, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2022-06-21-57	Good afternoon. Thank you very much for the floor. Before I talk about the subject, let me say a personal half sentence. I am a relatively new Member here in Parliament, and when I won your lead speaker, Kristóf Szatmáry, I had the pleasure of defeating Budapest XVI. in the district of Zugló, Lower Cancer. However, after winning, there were also opposition voters voting for me who came to me in all sorts of ways and talked about not taking up the mandate or coming into Parliament, not much of Parliament's work and boycotting Parliament's work. I did not take this personally, and I am also trying to do meaningful work in Parliament, and I am also trying to do meaningful work outside Parliament. I am only saying this because you may be fellow Members of Fidesz and KDNP, but you have heard these voices, because I would now count it here, as I see it, nine Fidesz Members and a false KDNP representative in this House. So if I see it right, the two-thirds will be represented by ten, and we'll be here with a small one-third more, but it's a good thing it's not like that. Give me, king, a soldier. Let's play a game, because we'd be in the majority right now. So for some reason, you're boycotting Parliament on a subject like this. Let's talk about the subject. What are we talking about? First, let me read very carefully what is the subject of what we are discussing here. Its title is called "The Promoting the adoption of a European Union directive on the introduction of a global minimum tax." Let's just disperse here why you may have run and why there are only a few of you around me. There are a lot of words that you hate. Global: you think globalism is from some devil, and you run away from it. You don't like the minimum tax, because now we see in the budget that it is not a minimum tax, but a maximum tax, or extra profit, that it is actually taxes that people are burdened with, so the minimum tax cannot be very sympathetic to you. Maybe the introduction and application... even you understand that. I will translate the European Union into your language, and that's when you guys used to brunches, so that's what you call it, and you don't often think of directives as your own. But then let's talk about what we're talking about here. First of all, it is noted that this process has not just begun, but has already started in 2018. The OECD has such a directive, which is related to this. I will also help you with the OECD, this is the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. I'm just saying this because there may be words in here that you might be a little concerned about. Here's a personal half sentence for you. I've had the pleasure of working on the OECD for two years, and I've seen how serious professional work there is. If you want to attack me personally, don't forget to put the OECD next to Soros, I'll give you these crutches, because it's always important that you know that. This is about two basic pillars. It's been said several times, so I don't want to say it any longer. The first pillar is to tax large technology companies, and the second is a certain 15 percent global minimum tax. So, the point is, this conversation didn't start just now, although you're starting to turn this around for some reason. It is very important to see that Hungary would otherwise receive or receive a ten-year transitional period, such as a derogation. At the beginning of 2021, when these negotiations were already accelerated, let me indicate that Hungary even said that your government had agreed to this, I even wrote down a date for myself that almost 140 countries, including our beloved country, said yes on 8 October 2021. Then at the end of my list, I'll argue why I think you've actually changed your point of view. So this is the first issue we're talking about. The second is that I'm going to give you some quotes, that you, Fidesz or government, or KDNP, that's kind of like what you're saying to me. [[11.50]] The first quote I find from you is that this would undermine Hungary's competitiveness, which is one of what you are saying. The other thing is that Hungary's economic success is based on this low tax rate. You also say that the capital would go away if it were higher and that companies would pass on this higher tax and that jobs would be at risk. You know, these guys are really catchy. Kristóf Szatmáry is no longer here, for some reason he doesn't respect us, although I have patiently listened to his speech, he has already advanced that he believes that we will draw a parallel here between the extra inflation figure you call extra profiter and here the minimum tax. Indeed, then his word to me in this regard is an order. If you think the capital would go, if you think it would pass it on, if you think that the low tax rate is the only guarantee of our success, and if you think that jobs are in danger, if this is the higher tax, then why wouldn't that be true for the extra-profit tax? One of them isn't possible. You may know Orwell's book Animal Farm, but first it says that four legs are bad, two legs are good, and then at the time of the book it's transformed, that it's the other way around, that four legs are bad... [[Dr. László Pósán intervenes.]] That is right, my fellow Member says that it will be the other way round that the four-foot bad thank you for having been able to speak to my colleague on such a substantive subject, which is a great honour, or two-foot bad. I suggest that you decide which is then; so that now the multi-tax is bad, but the extra-profit is good, or vice versa, I don't think the two can be true at the same time. If one is damaging competitiveness, why shouldn't the other make it worse? If you think the minimum tax is passed on to the companies, then why not pass on the extra-profit tax? I would like to point out that, although it does not belong to the topic, it is now clear from the point of view of the extra-profit tax that the companies for which you will introduce the extra-profit tax will have two types of company in total. One type of company boasts and says out loud that he will pass it on to the Hungarian people, and the other one will do it quietly and silently. Each passes it on, only some do it out loud, and the other one keeps it down. Let's talk about the competitiveness that you consider to be so important. I also share the fact that competitiveness is very, very important. The problem is that you are creating a country where there is a downward competitiveness, where we are only trying to attract capital with low taxes, and because of this little tax revenue, human capital is rotting away, it is disintegrating. Education is bad, health is bad, we can only make low value-added businesses, become a assembly nation. Where do you think capital travels rather than, say, Bulgaria or Romania, or the one with very high tax rates, as in the case of multinationals, with high tax rates, such as Denmark or Sweden? You also said here in the introduction that you will protect our nation, our country. You don't think the other countries want to protect the nation? I don't quite understand. Let me quote one more thing from Kristóf Szatmáry, because I always pay extra attention to his minimal added value here in Parliament. [[Defiance in the ranks of Momentum.]] So, anyway, he was talking about what I was going to talk about, or what the opposition is going to talk about, that there is no parallel between the extra-profit tax and the minimum bidder, because the extra-profit tax is the short-term tax introduced during the crisis period, and it will not stay with us. Maybe he doesn't watch his own minister as carefully as I do. The Great Last Name, Martin the Great Last Name [[Sic!]] Minister said yesterday that the extra protégé will remain here, perhaps under a different name. You are very great masters of introducing temporary taxes, and then it is permanent. So I don't think it's right that the extra-profit tax is only temporary, because your minister has either spoken out, or for some other reason he's already said that he's going to stay here for the two-year period, maybe he's going to be faxed over by some other name. And what is really the situation on this subject, one more thing my colleagues have already said about what their procedure is like. Indeed, as Anna Russian said, I was a member of a local government, and there we call the smallest committee meeting many days earlier. And what you did: you sent out an e-mail saying that there was a committee meeting in an hour, and I went there as a guest, and I saw that there was a very serious, two-sided presentation on the table, which you two here played out of muscle. I'd like to talk about a company you probably know very well, because many of you are walking around with it, with my money, by the way. The car factory Audi, let me tell you, you're happy to be sitting in your right back seat. Audi is one of those people that's involved in this. For some reason, you are very protective of the interests of the Audi. They may get the car on sale, I don't know, but let's talk about the Audi results. Audi has seven European sites together with Hungary. I looked at Audi's profit and loss account: here, in Hungary, it is by far the least of its labour costs in terms of revenue. Of course, you also need to see that due to the low tax, the Audi can make great use of transfer pricing, so clearing prices. If I look at Audi's profit and loss account, what you can see is that if you look at the annual labour costs of this company, it will pay off its total labour costs 22 times, i.e. less than two and a half weeks in net turnover. Again, their net turnover is generated 22 times, sorry, their net turnover produces 22 times the cost of the annual labour force, their annual labour costs are less than two and a half weeks of turnover. Or, in other words, a forint with personal expenses, so let's say, with wages, contributions and such, they produce almost three times the net production value. What's this if it's not a fantastic efficiency? Congratulations, so it's very good to have efficient companies, but why can't they be burdened even further? And to bring you all the news I've just received: I'm terribly glad that the Audi has brought another serious investment into our country. I have just read the announcement by Minister Szijjártó that there is another major investment and that the assembly of an electric motor has been brought here. I welcome it and I am very happy for it, and I am also very pleased that, on the basis of this announcement, it has brought 500 new jobs to our beloved country. You gave HUF 8.5 billion in support to this company, this Audi, whose efficiency, its huge turnover I was talking about earlier; they gave me HUF 8.5 billion to create 500 jobs. If I have calculated correctly here in my head for the last two minutes, this is about 15 million HUF per job created, again for a company that works extremely efficiently and well. The last thing I want to say is to share this with you, what I think is really in the background, what you're really doing. We're in Parliament, so let's do some politics. I think you guys have made politics out of this. We will talk about a budget starting tomorrow, which, by the way, includes a cut of HUF 2000 billion. To translate into Hungarian, we use 15 Bokros packages of this unit of measurement you love. If we remember how terrible the Bokros package was for Hungarian families, you bring it here at a 15-fold rate, the Great Package or Orbán package contains a 15-fold restriction on the Big Package, even a small pun with the Big Package, although we should not joke about people's names. They can bring this here by actually counting on another HUF 2000 billion of EU funds for next year, or, to put it another way, we expect EUR 40 billion for the whole EU cycle to get our country from the European Union. Unfortunately, it is now very easy to multiply the 40 billion, and last week it was not only 4:0 but also 400 HUF. Even I can multiply the 40 billion by 400, that is HUF 16 000 billion, which we expect from the European Union throughout the next budget cycle. By the way, this is about a quarter of our GDP. And why am I bringing this here? Because I think you want to use this as a matter of fact, not as a matter of principle, but as a blackmail on the side of the road. Something tells me that you are also doing this to blackmail the community of which we are all members. Finally, you talk about sovereignty all the time. It has also been said that you defend national interests against foreigners, and we serve them, and we want to jump in the way the rest of the world expects us to. I think the other way around, you guys are jumping the way the multi-enterprises want to do it now, and that's why they're doing it. So to sum up, I'm thinking these things about this draft for the time being. Thank you so much for letting me tell you. [[Applause in the ranks of MSZP and Momentum.]]
u2022-06-21-58	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Toroczkai, the lead speaker of the Group of Mi Hazank. I would also like to ask you that you have previously indicated that Vice-President Dóra Dúró wishes to speak... [[For signal:]] He says no, so Mr. László Toroczkai alone will be the lead speaker. You have the floor. [[12.00]]
u2022-06-21-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The position of our homeland Movement is crystal clear, clear and clear. Even before I start making all sorts of excuses, as the left-wing opposition politicians have just done, complaining that they didn't have enough time to deal with the issue, I think that's the last thing that voters care about, and we get paid to work for it. So I've done a lot of research, although it was really short notice, but I've done a lot of research on what this debate is really about, what the global minimum tax is about, which is why our position is very clear. This debate could be made much more simplified than a lot of bullshit. There were two basic pillars of this whole package, and the first pillar of it has been forgotten for some mysterious reason. If this were the first pillar of this package, the Global Minimado Package, then the Hungarian Movement would support the introduction of a global minimum tax, because to make everyone understand, the first pillar contains the measure that applies to global digital tech companies. When I have tried to draw attention many times in recent years to the fact that neither Facebook nor Google nor others pay a penny tax in Hungary, while pumping a lot of money out of the Hungarian economy, earning a lot of income, they tend to slap on my suggestion, or think that this is not a serious amount or a serious factor. Well, actually, let me give you some data right now, because I think it's very important, because that's the whole point of this debate. The first pillar, which applies to global digital tech giants, would mean that it would finally be possible to tax normally, say, Facebook, Google, these companies are known here in Hungary, they use their products, their services, and yet it is outrageous that while, let's say, a pancake vendor or a flamer pays hard taxes for the last pancake in Hungary, these companies do not support the Hungarian budget with a penny. Then let's look at the numbers. In recent years, and perhaps that is why we now need a global minimum tax, there have been many disasters affecting national economies everywhere in the world, and we can say, in summary, that the world economy has been or is being hit by these disasters. The first was such a blow, when the corona virus was probably launched from a laboratory, this Covid crisis, and now the war in Ukraine. Let's see how, let's say, during this period, Facebook's revenues have evolved specifically! In 2019, Facebook revenue was $71 billion. By 2020, Facebook's revenue was $86 billion. That's a 22 percent increase. By 2021, Facebook revenues had already increased to USD 118 billion, while the corona virus and Covid measures had already ravaged the economy in many countries. This represents a 37 percent increase in Facebook. This $118 billion, by the way, is HUF 44,000 billion. To understand, let's say, the viewers or voters, why I am talking about Facebook, Google, global digital giant companies: in the same year, Hungarian public finances, so simply on the revenue side of the Hungarian state, represented HUF 25 000 billion. So it means that there was almost twice as much revenue in the Covid dictatorship that year during the rampage of Facebook as the whole Hungarian state. But let's watch Google. Google made 160 billion dollars in 2019. By 2020, this has already increased to $182 billion. That's a 13 percent increase. By 2021, again, the austerity measures of the Covid dictatorship have increased to $257 billion in the environment and circumstances. That's a 41 percent increase. And to make sense to you, and to make sure that Hungarian voters, the Hungarian taxpayers, understand what we are talking about in the first place, this means that in 2021, during the great Covid dictatorship, during the time of austerity, he made HUF 96 000 billion. This, however, is almost four times the total revenue of the Hungarian state, which is on the revenue side. So that's what we're talking about, and these companies don't pay a penny tax in Hungary. Everyone meets this, the Hungarian taxpayer, the aforementioned flame oven, who pays hard taxes for the last one sold, also faces the fact that if, say, he wants to give up an advertisement in these global techs, he will also meet with reverse VAT. So they try to charge the Hungarian taxpayers in all kinds of ways, whatever the cost, while they do nothing to support the Hungarian state register, the public finances. So under these circumstances, it is totally unacceptable for us that the Hungarian government has done nothing and does not talk much about the fact that these global tech giants, which, besides not contributing to public burdens, do not contribute twice or four times the total revenue of the Hungarian state, have their own revenue, while these digital tech giants, let us say, now decide elections, influence elections worldwide, not only in Hungary. So the fact that they don't even pay taxes with such gigantic incomes is totally unacceptable. During the entire four-year parliamentary term of the Hungarian Movement, you can expect to keep the taxation of these global giants on the agenda, and it is time to finally talk about it, and in this you can find a partner in the Hungarian Movement, because we consider this to be of particular importance in terms of national security and national economy. As it turned out that, contrary to the first moments when the global minimum tax was being negotiated, it turned out that, on the contrary, this first pillar had been removed from the agenda at the time of the French Presidency, and that we cannot, in any way, support the global minimum tax in this form. So, in Hungarian, we support and will vote for the Hungarian veto. However, at the moment when the first pillar is returned, we will support it, because it is true that this is partly a matter of sovereignty, and we also reject the fact that either Brussels or New York or any country wants to set a tax rate in Hungary, but we cannot act alone against global giants, so we need global cooperation against global giants. However, in its current form, we cannot support the global minimum tax, because it is really about it, and this kind of struggle that we are now hearing from the ruling parties is less about the exception of the first pillar, and the emphasis is on how the government is currently able to attract, attract or at least keep in place the global large companies it calls large companies, against which the Hungarian Movement also says that they should be taxed much more seriously from the point of view of public burdens. In fact, in the last 10 to 12 years there has not been a giant company, not only the aforementioned Audi, which we know was able to take 1,800 billion forints out of Hungary during the great crisis, its capital was taken down by an average Hungarian kft. We are also talking about the fact that these multinationals have pushed out Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, and they have taken the breath away from Hungarian businesses over the last decades. So we cannot accept that if the government now argues in favour of the veto that it wants to represent the interests of these global large companies, whether they are multinationals in Germany or any multinationals. We don't think that's what the government's supposed to do right now. We believe that strengthening the Hungarian national economy would be the responsibility of the government. We do not see such efforts, we do not see such measures, and today's arguments only show that the current Hungarian government wants to favour the multinationals, it wants to represent their interests, and it wants to be able to attract these multinational companies here with the level of corporate tax. The economic policy of the past more than thirty years, in which the balliberal side is obviously up to its neck, but so is Fidesz, is the economic policy that the current government wants to pursue. We reject that! Well, the reason we're where we are now is that wages and salaries are like this, because this is a message to global multinational companies, even manufacturing companies, to come here, because you have little to tax here, if at all. [[12.10]] Once again, in the last ten years, there have been people who have been virtually negative, so we have supported them more than they have supported the Hungarian national economy. On the one hand, come here and on the other hand, come here because the labour force here is cheap. The fact that the exchange rate of the euro has now reached over 400 Hungarian forints clearly means that the Hungarian wages and salaries are reduced by these multinational corporations, which mainly produce exports. However, this kind of economic policy, which Fidesz wants to continue, obviously cannot be supported by our country's movement. As we have said in the case of special taxes, we are also in favour of this government initiative, given the fact that the global pig-headed great lords have caused the economic crisis in which we are now, whether with the political measures in connection with Covid or the Ukrainian war, it is very important to add this, or even with the insane sanctions. Indeed, this situation must be resolved in such a way that public burdens are achieved and, yes, special taxes should be imposed, for example, on the beneficiaries of the corona virus or this war in Ukraine. It's just that we're missing it again. Once again, we see that, while the government is trying to tax airlines that are clearly not the winners of the Covid story, it is in some places having an entertaining, sometimes insatiable debate with the manager of Ryanair, while, for example, it does not want to impose this special tax on casinos. We know that this is also due to the fact that casinos are considered a fidesz concession. But imagine that while this debate between the manager of Ryanair and the Hungarian government is about Ryanair trying to pass it on to the Hungarians, it wants to incorporate this special tax into the price of the flight ticket, it should not be feared in the case of casinos. So there is no need to fear that the casino can pass this special tax on to the average Hungarian person. Why isn't that what the government does? Take out the airlines and put them in, say, the casinos. Obviously, we don't hear any serious ideas about this from Fidesz either. Then we said that the issue of sovereignty was taxation. We would therefore expect the government to persuade multinational companies to bear public burdens. So now we will support this initiative, we will support the Hungarian veto, but once again, because of the exception of the digital giant tech companies, who obviously achieved their enormous power to remove them from this package at the moment, we would like to ask the government to try to somehow persuade the multinational companies in Hungary that have already been here in Hungary for the past 12 years, and which seem to be favored by the Fidesz government today, as previously favored by the Gyurcsány or Bajnai government. We expect this from the Fidesz government, and we will fight to re-examine the issue of the first pillar as soon as possible, to have a global cooperation that will finally force global technology and digital giant companies to bear public burdens and tax. So with these conditions, we can support the Hungarian veto at present and therefore vote for it. Thank you very much. [[Applause for the representatives of our country, applause for the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-21-60	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr András Imre Jámbor, the lead speaker of the Group of Dialogue.
u2022-06-21-61	Thank you for the floor. First of all, I think that we should be a little more specific, because this term "global minimum tax" is quite good, but this is a global multi-tax we are talking about, and I think that if we call it something a little more specific, then perhaps it will be more understandable to Hungarian citizens as well. The fact is, with this proposal, you have taken the side of global capital instead of nation states. I think this is a rather strange turn of events, at least in relation to the communication they have conducted, because this is not a big turnaround compared to reality, the Hungarian tax system. The fact is that in this proposal and in the next year's budget, which is not independent of this proposal, as it concerns the entire Hungarian economic policy, you represent the interests of the elite, your own interests, the interests of the NER companies, the interests of the Fidesz system instead of the interests of the people. If we look at next year's budget, we see that they are trying to collect around HUF 650 billion from large multinationals with special taxes, with HUF 3000 billion of VAT added to inflation and its total income. This global multi-tax would basically generate more revenue, and the budget ratio looks pretty bad when you say that you're going to tax the big companies with the special taxes, but what we're seeing is that the taxes on consumption and work are actually bringing in five times as much revenue as the extra taxes on large companies. For example, this could be changed by a global multi-tax, because that would mean the nice sentence that I will say many times in this House that rich people do pay. Yeah, the problem is they haven't taken the multi-tax in the last decade. This special tax is also about the fact that the profits that have been left at the multinationals in recent years are being collected afterwards. There is a lack of this revenue, as would be the global multi-tax, from health care, education, culture, social care, housing. As an example, what is missing could be mentioned as one of the large automotive companies, which has paid HUF 3.9 billion in corporate tax over the last five years, and if it had properly taxed 9 percent, which is your corporate tax, we would have had to collect HUF 61 billion of tax revenue from them. The problem with this global multi-tax is because there is a problem with it because you have built a country in which these large companies still tax their effective tax rate under corporate tax. So it should be built fundamentally, and therefore I do not understand why they are afraid of this multi-tax, because they can maintain the status of tax havens in Hungary, alongside this global multi-tax. They are basically arguing with competitiveness. If you look at the report of the German Chamber of Industry in May, you can see quite clearly what competitiveness means. German companies say that low taxes are competitiveness in Hungary, low wages are competitiveness, poor labour law is competitiveness and that in recent years the number of skilled workers has increased in Hungary. However, the number of skilled workers in Hungary did not increase because they would have invested energy in adult education or turned into re-training programs, from which, for example, they could move on from the public work programme, but because they bring in an enormous amount of foreign labour force and the foreign workforce raises Hungarian competitiveness. The only problem here is that, at least I would think that the Hungarian state should devote energy to increasing competitiveness, not with the foreign workforce, but with the help of Hungarian workers in adult education and re-training. What the German car companies, the German companies, say, on the other hand, is what is the problem with Hungarian competitiveness: this is the lack of a state of law environment, corruption, the unpredictable legal environment. In fact, the question is how Hungary's Government intends to change these, how they try to reduce corruption, how it can create a more secure legal environment for these companies and also for Hungarian companies. The adoption of the global multi-tax could be a break-up point with the policy of the last thirty years, in which the losers of the change of regime continue to be losers, increasingly losers, and the winners of the change of regime continue to be fundamentally enriched. With this policy, which is trying to develop priority sectors instead of a developing state, let us say, green sectors, or the info and tech sectors, it builds on giving huge money to the multinationals to come here, giving them tax incentives, while keeping Hungarian salaries low, weakening Hungarian labour law and bringing in foreign workers instead of creating skilled workers. This policy basically leads the country from crisis to crisis. What we see is that the big multinationals have to pay more and more for a job created. While, say, five to six years ago, there was an average discount of HUF 8 million for creating a job, now 16 million forints at the battery companies. This means that a worker's salary is paid in advance for about three years. If Hungarian companies were to receive this discount, if they had paid the employees' wages in advance for three years, I think they could be successful too. If their problem is that the first pillar is not in it, which I agree with, is that it is a problem, because the taxation of large tech companies is a problem, then why didn't they submit a proposal for a decision that, if the first pillar is adopted, what is the second and first pillars being ratified at that moment? This could have just been solved. It would have been guaranteed that we would adopt the global multi-tax together with the first and second pillars, and this could have been the same decision proposal as the one we have now. [[12.20]] The only problem is that you want to reject basically the entire global multi-tax, because it concerns the essence of your policy, the essence of your economic policy, the policy based on which your NER companies do not have to tax casinos, the companies of Lőrinc Mészáros, István Tiborcz's companies. Obviously, this minimum global tax does not affect these companies, or is partly affected, but the principle is that large companies do not have to tax in Hungary or have to pay a minimum tax in Hungary, this principle, this principle is affected by the global minimum tax and, on the other hand, the economic policy that aims to build competitiveness in wage competition and downward tax competition. I ask you to switch, accept the global minimum tax and turn the economy into a way of supporting the people, not the elite, which means a developing state, which develops the Hungarian economy in selected sectors, where they can be large Hungarian multinationals from medium-sized enterprises, and not by giving it to a buddy, but by people who can build companies from their talent to build companies, people who are partners in not exploiting the Hungarian workforce, but working with it, in sectors where skilled workers can work with good wages. So once again, I ask you to accept the global minimum tax and turn the economy into a way where we don't support the elite, but the people of the people can live a normal life, where wages rise, there is normal labour law. Let's move to economic policy like this, let the rich pay. [[Applause from Momentum, MSZP, DK, LMP and Dialogue.]]
u2022-06-21-62	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2022-06-21-63	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, I think it is right to say a global multi-tax instead of a minimum tax, because this minimum tax liability really only affects companies with annual consolidated turnover of HUF 300 billion and above. I think that by rejecting the support of this initiative, the Hungarian Government makes it clear that the economic policy of the Hungarian Government can be described by doing everything the Hungarian Government can to ensure that large multinational companies are exempt from tax, while small businesses are the smallest, weakest, most deprived and vulnerable businesses, for example, lose the reduced, simplified form of taxation they have had so far. I'm talking about Kata and the taxes on multinational companies. And I think that if I can describe it this way, it is a very sad story in Hungarian history, because that means that the Hungarian government has been permanently separated from Hungarian society. We are talking about how big companies are taking their share of the shared burden, and here is a table in front of me, where the three crown jewels of the Hungarian economy and their economic data or management data are available. I am talking about Audi Hungária Zrt., I am talking about MOL, and I am talking about Gedeon Richter, and I think that these companies can perfectly describe how a multinational company operates in Hungary today. The total profit of these three companies before tax is almost HUF 670 billion. Pre-tax profits! What do you think, fellow Members, is the tax balance for these three companies? As I see that there are no ideas, I'll tell you that unfortunately these three companies have a tax balance of HUF 2.9 billion minus! which means that while Audi Hungária Zrt. paid a tax of 0.87 per cent on the profit of 123 billion, until then Gedeon Richter paid a profit tax of 0.03 per cent on its profit before tax of HUF 141 billion. This is HUF 38 million, so an apartment in Budapest cannot be taken from the amount of tax paid after Richter's HUF 141 billion profit. The most beautiful example, the largest of all, MOL Hungarian Oil and Gas Company, closed last year with HUF 405 billion in profit before tax. And what do you think your tax balance is? Minus 4 billion forints, which means that your post-tax results are higher than your pre-tax profits. With all due respect, this is the contribution of multinational companies to the Hungarian economy, to Hungarian public affairs, and I think it sounds very nice when my fellow Member, Erik Bánki, as Chairman of the Economic Commission, brings examples and quotes from the United States, but the fact is that... how did this Senate representative, whom he quoted, Congressman? Either they go for a negative wage race or they go for a negative tax race. You are going to be sure, with a negative tax competition, you are also going to enter into a negative wage competition. Because I would just like to indicate that the federal minimum wage in the United States is $7.25 per hour, which, by the way, is HUF 462 840 per month at today's rate, which means that the minimum wage in the United States corresponds to the average Hungarian wage. On the other hand, we are trying to lure these companies here with a minimum wage of 200,000 forints without otherwise participating in public burdens. And I would just like to signal to my fellow Members and to the representatives of the government who are not present: all the velvet chairs are empty during the debate on the agenda, that competitiveness can be achieved in other ways. For example, it can be achieved by innovation or by creating an innovative environment. This requires a high level of education, for example, the source of this could be corporate tax, if, of course, it were collected. And, well, the predictability of the economy can be a competitive advantage or a condition for the operation of an economic company that is very much desired not only by a multinational company, but also by a small enterprise, but unfortunately you have not been able to please the economic operators working in Hungary. I have to say that the low tax you collect from companies leads to low public services. Technically, it can be said that by throwing a thousand billion forints out the window just because they believe that the Hungarian budget should be financed exclusively by Hungarian taxpayers, it is something quite shocking. Let's look at the figures for next year's budget, which clearly shows that while you want to collect HUF 7100 billion from general sales tax, personal income tax and contributions plan HUF 4000 billion in revenue, corporate income tax stands at HUF 792 billion. This means that while private people would collect 13,000 billion forints from turnover or income-based taxes, they would like to collect less than 800 billion from companies, and they still have the nerve to say that they are not pursuing a austerity policy, but they do. [[12.30]] The thing is, ladies and gentlemen... [[András Tállai will rise from his seat as State Secretary and turn to the speaker.]] The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that continuing and determined support for multinational companies not to participate in public burdens is simply shameful! Companies that would not otherwise have a problem paying taxes further increase their competitive advantage over small and medium-sized enterprises. Think about it. If there is a production company, it is obliged to pay 9 percent corporate tax today in Hungary, and he will pay this 9%, without better; there is nothing else he can do. MOL, on the other hand, will receive HUF 4 billion from the state after a HUF 400 billion profit just because you think of multinational companies partly with low wages, partly with a legal environment that makes workers extremely vulnerable, or with all kinds of subsidies and grants, you will bring them to a competitive advantage that they will come here in balance at the end, while creating work, but not taking part in public burdens. So, basically, we're funding our non-existent competitive advantage from the type of consumer tax that they didn't put a single penny into. Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, The thing is, it's time for them to finally take part in public burdens. Today, when we are discussing this proposal for a decision, I think that it is clear that the 15% target of the minimum tax proposal would be virtually the third lowest in Europe. The lowest in Hungary is 9 percent of you, then Ireland comes with 12.5 percent of you, and then it comes, right, 15 percent. But the thing is, if you wanted to do anything already in order to ensure that multinational companies were involved in paying taxes, not just private people, not just those who live on wages and salaries, you could have taken action even in the current environment. There should have been only one paragraph: the corporate tax rate is 7 per cent, but it can't go below, say, 8 per cent. [[Sic!]] Such a sentence precludes Audi from paying 0.87 per cent, and does not allow Richter to pay even 0.1 per cent of taxes. I think, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, that it is quite shameful that you, as you are trying to permanently deliver the country, the citizens who live here, to multinational capital. Please do not do so and withdraw this proposal for a resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2022-06-21-64	Thank you. Dear Parliament, In accordance with our traditions, I have not interrupted the Member, but I will inform him, for the record, that Deputy Minister András Tállai has been in the Chamber the whole time of the speech. And, of course, the rapporteur, the Economic Committee, chaired by President Erik Bánki, has been watching your speech all along. [[Antal Csárdi: I can only see that there is no one here.]] Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. I don't see an application, so we're going to have speeches in the normal time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Ovádi, Fidesz Group.
u2022-06-21-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, It will be difficult for the President of the Commission to answer these questions, because many times my fellow left-wing Members have deviated from the proposal for a decision, but President Bánki, Commissioner, will cope with this task. Dear Parliament, In October 2021, the OECD entered into a two-pillar policy agreement in an inclusive format to address the tax challenge of economic digitalisation. The aim of the first pillar is to tax multinational companies with a high turnover and high profits on at least part of their income in the State where the income was generated. The aim of the second pillar is to ensure that the actual corporate tax burden of multinational companies with high turnover reaches 15 per cent. Dear House, The draft directive on the transposition of the second pillar into EU law aims to introduce a global minimum tax on taxpayers belonging to a group of companies operating in the European Union with consolidated turnover of over EUR 750 million per year. Unfortunately, however, it must be noted that the necessary expert work is progressing at an inadequate pace at global level, since the adoption of the directive would prevent the final adoption of global rules. The work is slow and uncertain when it can end, but the outcome is uncertain. The balance between the two pillars of the proposal for the taxation of multinational companies has been disrupted, and we do not see it ensured that the so-called first pillar proposal is progressing in parallel with the introduction of the global minimum tax. Among the issues open to Hungary, it is of particular importance that if a domestic additional tax is collected on the companies concerned, this additional tax should be counted abroad. We do not currently know the details of this, so the early introduction has a major impact on the overall domestic tax system. Ladies and gentlemen, In an environment affected by the war economic crisis, there is a very high risk for the competitiveness of both the European Union and Hungary if the rules are introduced in a hasty way. We must also bear in mind that there will be little preparation time for businesses to comply with very complex rules with a significant administrative burden. The proposal was also discussed and proposed by the Legislative Committee, and I therefore propose that it be adopted. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-21-66	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Máté Kanász-Nagy, LMP Group.
u2022-06-21-67	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In a nutshell, the situation is indeed becoming more complicated than, let's say, the rapporteur Erik Bánki, the speaker István Hollik, Secretary of State András Tállai, or Péter Ovádi, would be a lobbyist for large capital and would like to protect multinational companies. For what we are really talking about is that you, honourable members of the government, fear for the competitiveness of Hungary's current economic model, otherwise rightly so. Let's face it, you're right. Our problem is that he is with this economic model and how they want to make the Hungarian economy and Hungary competitive. This is the process of cheapening and extortion, because you cheapen the Hungarian workforce, because the Hungarian people, the Hungarian workers in these assembly plants and factories make less money than they do where these factories come from. So a Hungarian worker earns much less than a German worker. But not only do they cost labour, but they also make the environment and nature more expensive and cheap, because let's look at the environmental aspects. Practically no environmental aspects apply in Hungary. If these big factories come here, the big capital will come here, and you can do whatever you want with environmental and greenhouse gas emissions. And there is a third pillar of this appeal, as you call it euphemistically, to competitiveness, as my Csárdi Antal groupmate pointed out very precisely, with figures: huge tax incentives and government support to this western capital, trying to make the country competitive. But we don't think it's a good way, not a sustainable way. We really want to be in a downward race here, which is not XX at all. The solution of the century. A lot of people have said to me that indeed, training, innovation, investment in human capital and maximum environmental enforcement would mean real competitiveness for us. I therefore believe that competitiveness models are essentially competing here. Here is the Fidesz competitiveness model, this is the downward competitiveness of peripheral countries, and we really want, say, Western Europe or Scandinavian countries, once again: human capital enhancement, training, education and maximum environmental protection. Thank you very much. [[12.40]]
u2022-06-21-68	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Vajda, MSZP Group.
u2022-06-21-69	Thank you very much for the floor. Very briefly, I just want one more thing. Let us not forget and record to the present and posterity that, for your part, Fidesz, the lead speaker was Kristóf Szatmáry, who is especially in my heart, and I always like to mention his name. I would just like to point out that he is the one who has openly sided with the Hungarian people on your behalf. I'm saying this because it's not the first time he's done this. He's the one who, for your part, was also a petitioner of the slave law. So somehow you always like to live up to it and show the Hungarian people what you are doing. The slave law is also against the interests of Hungarian workers. Kristóf Szatmáry was commissioned to be the promoter of this. And the same Kristóf Szatmáry was the one on your behalf who spoke for the sake of the multinationals today here in Parliament. I'm still practicing here, but I've heard many times that when you're talking about us, you're going to downplay us, and you're going to use it as a curse. If left-wingism means representing the interests of the Hungarian people against you, then in this respect I am happy to bear this adjective, which you want to throw at us as a curse, as the colleague says. But if the Hungarian people are to be represented against you, I am happy to do so as a leftist. And I like multis, so I'm gonna have a little Coke. Thank you so much for the opportunity.
u2022-06-21-70	Thank you. Dear Parliament, It is now possible to speak for two minutes. I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi, LMP Group. Here you go.
u2022-06-21-71	Thank you very much for the floor. Instead of saying nice words, I would like to say that I believe everything, because I am a bona fide guy, and it is in my job description, that is what I would like to say in order for the 50 largest companies in Hungary to move up from a tax rate of 3.5-4 percent. Or what would you like to do in order to ensure that the multinational companies, specifically those large companies that I spoke about in my speech as the lead speaker, participate in the tax payments, participate in our common costs? If you want to disprove that you are not on the side of the multinationals, then I ask you to tell me what you are planning to do before the debate is over, what tax amendments you are planning to make in order to ensure that there is no shame that while a private individual pays 15 percent of his income, a multinational company with 100 billion turnover and profits pays only 1 percent. Please respond to that before closing. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-21-72	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The consolidated debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Bánki Erik, Chairman of the Economic Committee, as rapporteur, to respond to what has been said.
u2022-06-21-73	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I have been through a lot of debates and sat through Parliament over the past twenty years, and I am not surprised that opposition representatives are not talking about what is the proposal for a resolution before us and are ignoring what the author said in the expoze. After all, the point of the expozee is to add those additional information to the legislative proposal otherwise before Parliament or, in this case, to a proposal for a decision that may be relevant for the debate. First of all, I would like to thank my pro-government colleagues, Kristóf Szatmáry, István Hollik, Péter Ovádi, for their support for the resolution proposal before this House, and I would like to thank László Toroczkai, the representative of our Hungary, for his constructive speech to support us in preventing the adoption of the European Union directive in this form. At least Mr Toroczkai paid attention to what I spoke about in the Expoze, as I myself said that we basically agree with the principle of minimum taxation. This, by the way, answers the question that you asked Mr Csárdi, Congressman. We agree that tax avoidance must be abolished in Hungary. If anyone, the Fidesz-KDNP government has done the most in recent decades, since we have removed loopholes, we have collected hundreds of billions that the previous governments, the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments, would have had the opportunity to do, but they have done nothing about it. To give just a few examples of this: installing online cash registers, creating an electronic road freight system or an online billing system, which is a strong innovation even in Europe. Today we are in Hungary, as when an invoice is issued to any company, NAV knows at the moment what tax obligations are imposed there. So if someone is on the side of tax avoidance, we think that this is a very important part of the cleanliness of competition. We also believe that there is a need for public burdens in Hungary, because we were the first government to introduce special taxes since 2011 precisely so that companies that did not take part in the burden-sharing by banks, multinationals or telecommunications companies, even on a temporary basis, would pay special taxes that would allow us to pull back an otherwise bankrupt country from the brink in some way, as we have done. That is why we have introduced the extra-profit tax because we believe that we need to protect Hungarian people from the economic effects of the Russian-Ukrainian war. We cannot put the burden of war on the Hungarian people and make them pay for these burdens, but we have to pay for this partly for companies that have obtained extra profit as a result of the war. So we are not on the side of multinational companies, honourable Members, but the opposition representatives who attacked the proposal that the government adopted as a proposal for the introduction of the extra-profit special tax. To date, for example, airlines are still being protected because we have imposed a special tax on them because they have increased their prices to a much higher degree than what the increase in kerosene prices or the general price increases would have justified. So not only can I not accept these attacks, but I strongly reject them. The fact that we would be socially insensitive by the opposition Members and that we are in the pockets of multinational companies is simply a joke. If that were the case, we would not have been able to introduce the special taxes after 2010, which was charged to multinational companies. And we wouldn't have been able to impose the extra-profit tax, we couldn't have stopped smoking in Hungary, for example, in restaurants and in closed rooms, for which socialist governments ran three times in parliament, and all three of them had their bill withdrawn because the lobby of tobacco companies had reached their representatives. This can't happen here. By making it unnecessary to award grants to large companies, which was raised by Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, I do not agree at all, indeed. I think it is good that we give three times as much non-refundable funding as the Gyurcsány government gave back then. Because not only should we look at what Mr Csárdi said here, in a short-sighted way, how much corporate income tax is paid in Hungary, but we should also look at how much personal income tax is paid in total through the jobs they create, and how much labour income tax is paid in Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, Some of you were sitting here in Parliament in 2010, when Viktor Orbán promised to create 1 million new jobs in his Prime Minister's seat. The opposition representatives laughed at the Prime Minister, which is an outrageous thing, because they did not laugh at the Prime Minister, but indicated that this is not a matter of substance or importance to you. For the Hungarian people, however, the most crucial question is that everyone who can work in Hungary can work. [[12.50]] We have created a million new jobs in Hungary in ten years, which is unprecedented in the Central and Eastern European region, if we look at this performance in proportion to the population, and today we have reached the point of everyone who can and wants to work. And when they say that we provide competitiveness with the foreign workforce in Hungary, because the Hungarian qualified workforce... because Hungarian vocational training does not work well, I can tell you that again they are unprepared on this issue. The Hungarian economy does not need foreign workers because there are not enough skilled workers in Hungary, and last year we achieved for the first time that 60 percent of the students in the eighth grade chose a vocational school, not a high school, most of them went to a vocational school or a vocational training institution, precisely because the work has value in Hungary. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said three years ago that all skilled workers' certificates or qualifications, professional qualifications are apologies! is equal to a degree, but not all degrees are equal to a professional qualification, because in Hungary there has really been a significant value of professional work in recent years, and there has been a rise in wages and wage levels in professional wages that have exceeded average wage increases, mainly due to the fact that the Hungarian economy has had such a career in growth, and such a demand for labour has occurred not only from the domestic SME sector, but also from foreign companies. I think, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, if you had listened, you would have listened to my opening speech, and you would have understood that we are not against the global minimum tax, we are not against the fact that large companies that reach more than EUR 750 million in turnover should pay an average 15 percent tax in Europe and around the world, but we do not support the adoption of the European Union directive because the most important objective, the taxation of technological giant companies, is not ready for adoption at the moment. So the OECD itself, which made the basic proposal, did not know or wanted to say it again, I think that it did not want to put the draft in the state of adoption at the pressure of the United States in the first place, so I do not see a realistic chance, or I do not think it is good, to say that we are committed to introducing a global minimum tax on ourselves with the adoption of the European directive. If the first pillar, which would also mean a significant surplus of tax revenue for us in Hungary, is adopted, then it makes sense to talk about the adoption of the second pillar. I will say this once again: we do not oppose it, we think it is not the time at the moment, and we say this because we have also made this proposal for a decision with the Economic Committee because we believe that it will cause a competitive disadvantage, but it will cause a competitive disadvantage in Hungary if, by adopting the European Union directive, we will impose a tax increase on large companies that are otherwise present here, while technology giants around the world will still not pay taxes, or they will pay only a minimum tax in countries where they otherwise receive operating income. I therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support this proposal for a resolution, because this proposal for a decision is important not only for the competitiveness of Hungarian companies, large companies operating in Hungary, but also for the purpose of forcing that certain first pillar, the proposal prepared by the OECD, should be speeded up and adopted, and, after the adoption of the first pillar, it will also be possible to decide on the second pillar by clearly and clearly seeing what revenues and possible extra revenues for the Hungarian budget, and from what revenue we will lose, in Hungarian, what will be its saldo, and how we will be able to calculate at the level of public finances. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-21-74	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Decisions will be taken on this day. Dear Parliament, From 13.30 a.m., the Parliament will continue its work with decisions. I'm gonna take a break for 13 hours and 30 minutes. (Recess: 12.55-13.32) President: Dr. János Latorcai Note: Attila Gelencsér and Dávid Dócs)
u2022-06-21-75	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask all of you to take your seats so that we can continue our work. [[It's a short break.]] We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. Please take your seats and check that your card has been properly placed in the voting machine. I'm asking all of you to press one of your voting machines. Now, please. [[Attendance check.]] Dear Parliament, 148 Members are present, 51 are absent, the Parliament has a quorum. H/201 on the adoption of the report on the professional activities of the State Audit Office in 2021 and on the operation of the institution for the National Assembly. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/201. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 111 votes in favour, 41 votes against and no abstentions. Here comes the T/208 on the announcement of the Headquarters Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Visegrád Patent Institute. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/208. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 151 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. The T/209 agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Oman on the promotion and mutual protection of investments follows. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/209. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 152 votes in favour, 3 votes against and no abstentions. The Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the promotion and mutual protection of investments between the Government of the Hungarian People's Republic and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the extension of this Agreement to the Isle of Man, the Bailiwicks of Guernsey and Jersey, Gibraltar, the Turks and Caicos Islands and Bermuda, T/210. Final vote of bill No 1. The referring T/210/1. In order to improve translation errors and errors in the part of the bill containing the official Hungarian translation of the international treaty, and to restore the authentic text of the bill containing the authentic text of the international treaty, which is available to all of us on the House's IT network. Since no amendment has been proposed to summarise the proposal, we are now deciding on an adapted text of the bill. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/210. Act No. 1 along with the adjustment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the adjusted bill by 156 votes in favour, without voting against and without abstention. H/315 on the formation of the Hungarian National Group of the Interparlamental Union Final vote on the proposal for a decision. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that, in accordance with our decision yesterday, the resolution proposal is being discussed by Parliament with a derogation from house rules. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/315. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal with 156 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It follows now that H/279 rejects the adoption of the EU directive on the introduction of a global minimum tax. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. I would remind you that, according to our decision yesterday, the motion for a resolution will be discussed in an exceptional procedure by the Parliament. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/279. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the proposal for a resolution by 118 votes in favour, 32 votes against and 6 votes in favour. Dear Parliament, In line with our agreed agenda, decisions are now being taken to accept the responses to the interpellations made yesterday. [[13.40]] Mr Balázs Barkóczi, representative of DK, representative of I/213. No response was accepted. I respectfully ask the Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 112 votes [footnoteRef:1], 43 votes against, with 1 abstention. [ 1: Balázs Barkóczi [[DK]] he voted wrongly. ] Mr László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, I/289. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 112 votes in favour, 43 votes against and one abstention. Congressman Ferenc Gelencsér, representative of Momentum, I/290. No response was accepted. I respectfully ask the Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 111 votes in favour, 44 votes against and one abstention. Mr Sándor Szabó, representative of the MSZP, I/295. No response was accepted. I respectfully ask the Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 111 votes in favour, 43 votes against and one abstention. Mr. President Novak, representative of our country, I/291. No response was accepted. I respectfully ask the Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 111 votes in favour, 21 votes against and 24 abstentions. Mr András Imre Jámbor, representative of the Dialogue, I/297. No response was accepted. I respectfully ask the Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 111 votes in favour, 43 votes against and one abstention. Congressman Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, I/298. No response was accepted. I respectfully ask the Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 111 votes in favour, 44 votes against and one abstention. Ladies and gentlemen, It follows a decision on a personal proposal for the election of officials and members of the ad hoc committee to appoint the President of the State Court of Auditors. The President's mandate is S/352. All my fellow Members, together with me, could get to know the proposal on the website. I now ask Mr Attila Gelencsér to present the contents of the personal proposal. Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2022-06-21-76	1. National Assembly 23/2022 on the establishment of an ad hoc committee for the President of the State Court of Auditors [[CHAPTER VI 20.]] On the basis of points 4 to 6 of the parliamentary decision, the ad hoc committee elects its officials and members as follows: Chairman: Erik Bánki, Fidesz; Members: Kristóf Szatmáry, Fidesz; Dr. Lajos Szűcs, Fidesz; Mihály Witzmann, Fidesz; Dr. Imre Vejkey, KDNP; István Szabadi, Mi Hazank. 2. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption.
u2022-06-21-77	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept S/352. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the personal proposal by 117 votes in favour, 34 votes against and no abstentions. I thank all my fellow Members for their cooperation. That concludes the decisions, and now I'm ordering a two-minute recess. (Sunning: 13.46 13.50 President: Dr. János Latorcai Note: Dr. István Tiba and Sándor Berki)
u2022-06-21-78	Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I am waiting for you to allow anyone who is of utmost importance to leave the Chamber on official business to do so as soon as possible so that we can continue our work. [[It's a short break.]] Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law on the publication of the Common Aviation Area Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part, will follow. The government referral is T/286. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Zsófia Koncz, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Technology and Industry, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Madam Secretary. You have the floor.
u2022-06-21-79	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In advance, please allow me to express my joy on the occasion of my first exposure to Parliament. I think legislation is one of the most beautiful parts of our work. I say this not only as a lawyer, but also as a member with a constituency, because I also see the practical significance of the laws of the Parliament in the lives of the settlements I represent. Since much of the legislative proposals directly affect the lives of citizens, I consider it essential to have clear and clear communication so that we can be followed up and made clear by the people who are monitoring our work, and I would therefore also like to pursue this when discussing the legislative proposals. As far as the concrete motion is concerned, the importance of aviation in today's world has clearly been appreciated not only in terms of trade but also in terms of passenger transport. In fact, aviation allows countries that are geographically distant from each other to help each other. In December 2021, for example, the Government of Hungary donated 100,000 koronavirus vaccines to Armenia, which, of course, was also delivered by air, by aircraft purchased for the carriage of goods from our country. The aim of the proposal before us is to ensure that the agreement establishing the Common Aviation Area between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Republic of Armenia, on the other, is ratified and published by Hungary. The Treaty was signed between the European Union and the Republic of Armenia in Brussels on 15 November 2021. It shall replace the relevant provisions of the bilateral air service agreements in force between the Member States and the Republic of Armenia. This provides a legal basis for the operation of air services between our countries. It also provides trade opportunities for all EU air carriers, for example in the fields of ground handling, flight sharing and free pricing. The signatory parties wish to establish a common airspace that will allow for gradual market opening and maximum exploitation of the potential of the countries concerned. Ensuring efficient air transport is also important for trade, tourism, investment and economic and social development. The agreement also focuses on international aviation safety and aviation security, as well as on environmental aspects. In view of the fact that the announcement is mandatory for our country, I would ask all the factions of Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-21-80	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Mihály Balla. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-06-21-81	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The purpose of this bill is to ensure that the agreement of 15 November 2021 establishing a common airspace between the Member States of the European Union and the Republic of Armenia is also ratified and published by Hungary, replacing the relevant provisions of the bilateral air transport agreement in force between all parties. At first sight, this is just a simple international treaty, which could be a technical opportunity or technical cooperation development, but at this time of war, it is very important that all the airspace used by the European Union with other countries, with other regions, be as safe as possible. We know that relations between Armenia and the European Union go back to the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement, which entered into force in 1999, which resulted in the rule of law, respect for human rights and democratic principles and the consolidation of a market economy. In 2004, the European Union extended the scope of the European Neighbourhood Policy to Armenia and adopted the country's action plan in 2006. In 2015, Armenia joined the Eurasian Economic Union, which forced the European Union to rethink the framework for closer relations. It is important to have solutions in the area of dialogue and action that are fully compatible with Armenia's membership of the Eurasian Economic Union. This can also be helped by the strengthening of relations between the European Union and the Eurasian Economic Union. The creation of a common airspace can therefore be an important step for all parties. According to the text of the Agreement, access to routes and capacities will be mutually ensured, as will non-discrimination and a level playing field for economic operators. It provides opportunities for all EU air carriers to trade, including in the areas of flight sharing, ground handling, free pricing and intermodality. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The Fidesz Group supports the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-21-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Imre Vejkey. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-06-21-83	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the bill is to strengthen and publish the agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part on the establishment of the common airspace on the part of Hungary. The Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Armenia was signed on 15 November 2021. The aim of the agreement is, as has already been said, to ensure, on a reciprocal basis, gradual market opening, regulatory convergence and effective application of EU aviation rules by Armenia, and to ensure non-discrimination and a level playing field for all economic operators. The agreement provides some EU air carriers with trade opportunities in the fields of ground handling, flight sharing, intermodality and free pricing. [[14.00]] The provisions of the Agreement replace the relevant provisions of the bilateral air agreements in force between the Member States and the Republic of Armenia. Please support the bill, the KDNP faction supports it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-21-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible to have a two-minute speech, and I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone would like to take this opportunity. [[No signal.]] [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. (No indication. ) I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I will ask Deputy Minister Zsófia Koncz, Secretary of State, to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear House, A general debate on the draft law on the publication of an Air Transport Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the State of Qatar, of the other part, will follow. The government referral is T/287. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. I now give the floor to Mrs Zsófia Koncz, Deputy Minister, State Secretary of the Ministry of Technology and Industry, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Madam Secretary. You have the floor.
u2022-06-21-85	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, During today, I can keep not only one, but also the expose of two legislative proposals in Parliament. The objective of the proposal under discussion is to ensure and to announce the ratification by Hungary of the Air Transport Agreement between the European Union and its Member States and the Qatari State in Luxembourg on 18 October 2021. Qatar is a state located in the Gulf of Arab, which is now one of the safest countries in the world. Despite its small size, it has a strong economic power, it has the third largest natural gas supply in the world, and its main source of revenue is the export of liquefied natural gas, LNG. I don't know, you know that through the terminal in Krk Island, Qatari natural gas is also arriving in Hungary, i.e. the Gulf State is also seen as a partner for the energy security of our country. There are around 400 Hungarians in Qatar, most of whom are typically doing hard work. In recent years, bilateral relations have been strengthened, and economic and tourism cooperation between the two countries is constantly increasing. The geographical situation of the Gulf State is an excellent asset for air transport, especially towards Asia, but also to Africa. By the way, we purchased the A330 type of freight transport machine purchased by the Hungarian State from the Qatari airline. During the pandemic, the large - strained aircraft performed a serious service by transporting 6.8 million doses of vaccine from around the world to Budapest. In addition to the state tasks, the aircraft has been put on the market, so it regularly flies from Budapest to Qatar after China. This is done by a Hungarian state-owned cargo aircraft operated by a Hungarian airline, maintained by a Hungarian company, and served by a Hungarian company on the ground in Budapest. This service is a new colour on the air freight palette. The cargo machine is also needed on the Budapest-Doha-Budapest route, as Hungary's trade relations in Asia and the Middle East have been strengthened in recent years thanks to the government's Eastern opening. As far as the motion is concerned, if it is adopted, the measures of the signed agreement will prevail instead of the relevant provisions of the bilateral air agreements in force between the Member States and Qatar. However, existing traffic rights resulting from such bilateral agreements and not covered by them may continue to be exercised. The aim of the Convention is to increase international air transport opportunities, while ensuring high standards. This will help to benefit passengers, the entire aviation value chain and workers. After a transitional period, air carriers are free to operate passenger and freight services from any point of the European Union to Qatar. The provisions of the document on grants, anticompetitive practices and transparency contribute to a level playing field between flights between the European Union and Qatar and between the EU and other destinations operated by Qatar. The provisions on social issues oblige the parties to further develop social and labour measures in line with their international obligations. The aim of the Parties is to improve the conditions for the operation of air services and to promote the development of an international air transport system based on fair and level playing field. In view of the fact that the publication of the agreement is mandatory for our country, as in the previous bill, I would like all the factions to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-21-86	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Mihály Balla. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-06-21-87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, This bill, like the previous one, is specifically related to making air transport more secure and more usable, as these agreements clearly help to modernise air transport between Qatar and the Member States of the European Union, to expand its technology and to open up basically the opportunities that are important for trade and the economy. It is clear that this bill will also help to strengthen political and economic relations between our countries. In the absence of an effective air transport agreement, trade, investment, the development of tourism and the promotion of social and economic cooperation are not ensured. With the entry into force of the agreement, airlines will also be able to establish an international system based on fair and level playing field. Today air transport is a key condition for the highest level of safety, with regard to security of persons and property, the elimination of incidents that are directed against aircraft safety. Political relations between Hungary and Qatar are balanced and can also be considered as friends. It proves that the Hungarian Prime Minister, the former President of the Republic and the Speaker have also recently visited our partners in the Middle East. In recent years, we have signed a number of bilateral agreements in economic, cultural and energy areas. Therefore, Qatar is a key partner of Hungary in the Gulf region. In view of this, the Fidesz fraction supports the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-21-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Imre Vejkey. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-06-21-89	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the bill is to strengthen and publish the Air Transport Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the State of Qatar, on the other. They need to know that he is preparing for the biggest sporting event in Qatar's history, the World Football Championship in 2022 with a stunning stadium that meets all needs. [[14.10]] The beginning of the World Championship is at arm's length, beginning this winter, on 21 November. For this arm's length distance, stadiums are already available, but it is necessary to deliver people in a dignified manner, and obviously also freight and freight transport. This is why it is of particular importance that this agreement be settled as soon as possible. The Agreement was signed between the European Union and the State of Qatar in Luxembourg on 18 October 2021. The aim of the agreement is, as I have just said, to facilitate the expansion of the possibility of international aviation and to enforce high standards, thereby exploiting the benefits offered to consumers, the whole aviation value chain and those working. Following a transitional period, air carriers are free to operate passenger and freight services from any point of the European Union to Qatar within the framework of a single regulatory framework of the Agreement. The agreement also includes comprehensive provisions on grants, anticompetitive practices and transparency, as well as mechanisms to enforce them, thereby contributing to a level playing field between flights between the EU and Qatar and between the EU and other destinations operated by the touch of Qatar. The agreement also provides all EU air carriers with access to trade opportunities such as ground handling, flight sharing, intermodality, free setting of prices. The agreement between Hungary and the State of Qatar on air transport is set out in CLIV 2016. It's out of the question. It's out of the question. In the event of a possible application dispute, it may be decided on a case-by-case basis that Member States' bilateral or EU-wide air transport provisions are applicable. Ladies and Gentlemen, The KDNP parliamentary faction supports T/287. Bill No. 1. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2022-06-21-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. [[There's no candidate.]] [[There's no candidate.]] My monitor's empty, so no one asked for a word. Then I must ask with respect that someone else wishes to speak in the debate. (No applicants. ) I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I'll ask the Deputy Secretary of State, if you'd like to take the floor. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to live. Thank you very much. I would like to inform my fellow Members that it is possible to present the amendments by 16 o'clock on Thursday. We have reached the end of our negotiating agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Mr László Varju, Deputy Group Leader, has applied for a post-meeting speech from the DK Group. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-06-21-91	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, I would like to speak for a company in a very difficult situation and for its employees. I thank the trust of 30,000 voters who, as voters of Újpest and Angyalföld, have entrusted me with it while they are hardworking and working hard to listen and represent them in Parliament. Now some of them are in a very difficult situation. In recent months, they have been in a situation where, in essence, after 26 January, the management of Tungsram initiated the amendment of the collective agreement first and then resigned, thereby putting the workers in a much worse position. After all, in fact, losing the results of their decades of work, or the stipend that would be in excess of the labour code, they have essentially ceased. Now we have come to the point that, in itself, not only the amendment of the collective agreement, but also the closure of the factory and the bankruptcy report. Production is slowly shutting down in its entirety. In Újpest, 650 workers can be laid off instead of the previous 400 workers, and all of this is already in the documents, informing the workers to the public. It must also be in public that I have addressed Minister Palkovics with the question of what the Government intends to do for Tungsram. There was a meaningless response, promising that they would do their best. At every moment, it means nothing, because while, as I said, it concerns the responsibility of hardworking and hardworking people, in the immediate vicinity of Budapest, or together with my fellow Member, Balázs Barkóczi, under the leadership of the municipality of Újpest, on the basis of the consultation with the representatives of the Municipality of Budapest and the trade unions, it seems that they are offering the opportunity here for the workers. But we need to open this space, and in addition to Budapest, we need to see that you must see that the company working as a strategic partner of the government, which does not only exist in Budapest, but also in Kisvárdán, Nagykanizsán, Zalaegerszeg and elsewhere, has left these people to themselves. This weekend, I was in Kisvárda, where 230 more people were laid off, in a place where several companies, several sub-contractors, businesses were created within the framework of Tungsram, essentially out of the capital of the parent company, and quite precisely the workflow, the profitable part was transferred to another place, and the 230 people were abandoned. These 230 people who are now being dismissed have the opportunity to travel back and forth at least 50 to 60 kilometers, so a total of 120 kilometers, perhaps to find a job in Nyíregyháza, Nyírbátor, but basically they cannot give a meaningful answer to people there. Today, Tungsram employees are in this situation throughout the country, and they need to be spoken for, because in the meantime, the government's strategic partner, or I can reverse it, Tungsram's strategic partner, the government, is doing nothing, leaving these families, the people, and the minister is trying to kill it with a meaningless answer. Ladies and gentlemen. It is time to take responsibility for the consequences of the strategic partnership and to take action for the 1600 people whose hands have now been released. Do something! Thank you very much. [[Balázs Barkóczi applauds.]]
u2022-06-21-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to thank my fellow Members, the staff of the Parliamentary Office, for their day-to-day work, and thank you for keeping the minutes. The Parliament will resume its meeting at 8:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. I'm closing this meeting. Good night, everyone.
