u2022-11-08-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, The 11th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Congresswoman Bernadett Bakos, member of the LMP faction, applied for a pre-meeting speech. Here you go.
u2022-11-08-1	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We have now come to the point that everyone and the government are now admitting that there is a crisis in Hungary. Inflation is out of control and food and energy prices are skyrocketing. At present, millions are not just facing difficulties, but their safety of life is at risk. In our view, although external factors must have had an impact in the current situation, nothing has happened that has not been prepared for the past 12 years. In our view, Hungary is now the most serious victim of the crisis in all Europe because the government has conducted an infinitely wrong economic policy over the last 12 years, which did not protect it, but has made our country more vulnerable to the crisis. The main objective of Fidesz' neoliberal economic policy has been to create the most comfortable tax environment for foreign multinationals over the past 12 years. That is why employees' rights have been abolished, for example, or that is why companies making profits of the order of one hundred billion would only have to pay a 9 percent corporate tax, and that is because they actually pay even less, and because of the extra tax incentives, we can collect only 6 percent. After the assembly plant of the German car factories, Viktor Orbán would transform our country into a large battery power, ignoring the dangers posed by the single-focused economy and the upcoming raw material crisis, and ignoring the people whose immediate residential environment is affected by these projects. The examples of Debrecen, Győrszentiván and Godd show that the government is in fact ignoring the people who live there. And this is obviously a simplification, but the result of this misguided economic policy is that there is no money for teachers' salaries today, and that is why the law states that the state is the last, if you have a problem, you have a problem if you need social assistance, and you only collect taxes from each citizen. Twelve years have passed in the fascination of various prestigious investments, while forgetting people, even though one of the most important tasks of the state is to look after citizens. The government's economic model has collapsed, and Fidesz is now so proud of his autonomy that he is forced to explain the lack of a teacher's wage increase by not getting money from the EU. There's no money left to help those in trouble, but instead, they take pride in blaming the needy for their own situation, denying the government's responsibility. This system is unsustainable, it can only be absolved, and we are going deeper and deeper in the crisis. We greens have been saying for many years that we have to change, because this tax competition can only be won temporarily, but if the car and battery companies pack, then we stay here. We stay here with bad education, poor health and social care, our drinking water can run out, and we pollute the air, we destroy nature. In recent years, we have lived up to our future, and that was not really necessary, it is the decision of the government alone. Orbán said almost 20 years ago that if you ride a dead knight and see it, then get off him. Now everyone can feel that this moment has come. The only solution to the crisis is a change of direction and a green turn. We need an economic policy that represents the real interests of people instead of large companies, and in Hungary we need a bigger state, not a smaller one. Large companies and the richest have to take a greater share of public burdens. We are here today because, in recent years, everything has been more important to the government than the quality of life of people and the creation of a living environment. Our position is clear: Hungary needs a policy that puts people and the environment ahead of profit interests. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the LMP and Dialogue benches.]]
u2022-11-08-2	I give the floor to Secretary of State Zsófia Koncz. Here you go.
u2022-11-08-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and He touched on a lot of topics in his speech, and in fact there were sentences saying that Hungary was the worst affected by this crisis and similar to it. I think that if you look around Europe today, you can see precisely that this is not the case. If you look at what news you can read, you can see, for example, the following: [[Bence Tordai: You don't have to read the Origo! Peter Ungár intervenes.]] Despite sanctions, the United States of America continues to take Russian oil. The New York Times acknowledges that sanctions do not work, this has already been explained several times, and the New York Post also says that it is obvious that sanctions are bad for us and must be changed. Compared to this, in European forums, the Hungarian government is doing everything in its power to make Hungarian people least affected by this crisis, and it is practically unique that we can support families, households, with HUF 181 thousand per month in Hungary. However, it must be fought because the Hungarian interest, the national interest, must be represented in these forums. Eurostat has also acknowledged that, by examining practically 24 EU Member States, gas prices have decreased in Hungary alone. These are the results that must be discussed, but Mrs President also mentioned where we stand with regard to the economy and the results that have been achieved in recent years. I would like to put it this way because we have actually achieved the greatest result by creating one million jobs. 4.7 million people are still working in Hungary, and unemployment continues to decline. [[13.10]] These are numbers that I think people should be proud of, especially when we know where we started before 2010. If we say that unemployment has increased steadily during left-wing governance, then we can say this in figures: in 2010 it was nearly 12 percent and now it is 3.5 percent. As I mentioned, 4.7 million people are already working, wages have been rising steadily since 2010, and in July 22, the average gross earnings of full-time employees were HUF 500,000, while the net earnings calculated in terms of discounts were HUF 344 700. Today, the minimum wage is higher than the average wage under left-wing governments. So if we look at this period, and you have found such allies, we should say that the left has reduced family support, raised taxes on work and VAT on food, abolished home-building benefits, deprived health and education. And if we look at what you're proposing, because you've launched a so-called shadow-green questionnaire, which has several questions in it... I put it this way because, in relation to the national consultation, you're very, very critical, and compared to that, you're starting a form like this. We agree with this very much, because we believe that the Hungarian people should always be asked in every situation, and this is a very good direction, but here you are asking and demanding that the Paks enlargement should stop, which is, in terms of Hungary's energy security, a rather key area. The Paks II project will avoid emissions of 17 million tonnes of CO2 on an annual basis. In addition, we are avoiding 14 million tonnes of CO2 emissions each year thanks to the existing Paks block. Together, the two represent more than 30 million tonnes of carbon dioxide per year. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] I don't know why that gives you such a good reason to smile, but these are important facts. In comparison, our country's forested areas can absorb about 6 million tons of carbon dioxide annually, so in its proportions it is a very, very important project, so I think that if you really mean the green issues and the Hungarian families, the situation of the Hungarian people and the Hungarian economy, then support the Hungarian government's policy. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-11-08-4	I now give the floor to László Toroczkai, leader of the faction. Here you go.
u2022-11-08-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The government likes to call itself a freedom fighter, and over the past 12 years we have heard a lot about its desire to create an independent and sovereign Hungary. Well, this is exactly what the Hungarian Movement wants: to see an independent, sovereign and strong Hungary. And we also know that an independent and strong country is based on energy policy, the right energy policy, and it is just now apparent that the government has done exactly the same in this area as on another very important issue of national strategy on migration. So you have good communication, but reality doesn't show that the government would defend itself well in these areas. We see that migrants are being sent back to Serbia by police or soldiers, or by border hunters or even field guards, and then we see that they are being sent back to Serbia to try again and, of course, to enter the territory of the European Union. So it's actually just a windmill fight, and in the meantime, the field guards of the Digotthalm municipality were convicted because the TASZ filed a complaint, and the Hungarian police, as they seem to have nothing better to do, launched an investigation, and the end of which was that they were convicted of stopping migrants and helping the police work. Well, that's the difference between real action and government communication. The government does the same with regard to energy policy, while saying that it is engaged in a freedom fight, and that our country, as we said, supports the government with regard to the completely insane and suicidal sanctions policy in Brussels, but the reality shows that over the last 12 years the government has deceived the Hungarians, tricked voters when it said that it is actually protecting them in the context of the reduction of the rent with an independent, sovereign energy policy. We now know that in the last 12 years, for example, energy could have been obtained at a lower price than the reduced price, and I will give you concrete figures: by 2014, the average price of a cubic meter of Russian gas decreased by HUF 16; then the average price of Russian gas was HUF 93 per cubic metre in 2013, in 2014 it was HUF 77, in the first half of 2013 it also purchased gas from the Hungarian-owned company, but registered in Switzerland, MET, and so on. It has been constantly revealed that this imported gas has often been given more expensive by the government at reduced prices than the official price, or has often been more expensive than the world market price; it has also cheated Hungarians about gas. We have also experienced the same thing and are currently experiencing it in connection with the electricity price. My specific question to the government is what the government intends to do now, when the government is struggling to agree with Brussels and to receive the funds due to Hungary, to build the system, for example. How did you expand the system, which is very much linked to energy policy, the government that has just announced that the possibility of refueling solar systems will cease? We all know that this is because the government didn't do what it would have done here, for example, in connection with the expansion of the system. For the past 12 years, the government has pursued an energy policy that was not about the interests of the Hungarian people. Or there's Paks II. Our Homeland Movement supported Paks II, and we would even discuss Paks III, but Paks II. It doesn't produce because of your fault, and it doesn't work right now, because you've been delayed. Similarly, solar panels, for example, are currently in some form implementing the solar system in 200,000 households. By the way, this is a shockingly large number of people who are practically executed by the government with this ad hoc energy policy. We believe that there is a need for a hybrid energy policy, which does not forget, for example, that there is solar cells and there is solar energy, there is geothermal energy, there is nuclear power, and the government is trying to create some kind of independence, an independent energy policy. So my specific question is why, on the one hand, the government missed the system expansion, the system development, and why hasn't it called for this in the last 12 years, as we can see from the numbers. And, for example, if there is money from the European Union, does the government intend to expand its system and network so that such situations do not arise? And don't let the government have any fun in the future, because it threatens exactly the energy independence that the government is supposed to be fighting and fighting for? Thank you very much. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]] [[13.20]]
u2022-11-08-6	In response, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2022-11-08-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, Our policy is at the heart of it, and not only at the level of words, but also at the level of action, it is indeed the protection of sovereignty, because we believe that Hungary can be successful if it makes decisions for its own good. Our international conflicts, most of our conflicts in the EU, also stem from the fact that other EU countries prefer to be able to enforce their own will in Hungary, while Hungary says that we stand up for national interests. The Hungarian left is therefore constantly attacking Hungary, and we know why, as the campaign revealed that they were financed from abroad, they received billions of dollars to represent foreign politics in Hungary and not the Hungarian national interest abroad. We always suspected that, but now their own Prime Minister candidate has told us that they receive money from abroad, so they echo the song abroad in Hungary. This is not what we are doing, but we are in the interest of the Hungarian people. For example, there are national consultations in Hungary because we want to reach points of agreement and then act on important issues with Hungarian people. We started with the Fundamental Law, continued with the issue of migration, and now we are on the issue of sanctions. These are two important sovereignty issues. One is migration, which you have mentioned, honourable Member. Hungary was among the first, and it was the first to defend its southern border by fence. Everyone attacked Hungary, both in Hungary and abroad; many said that they would tear it down. They went from Gábor Vona to Ferenc Gyurcsány, from Gergely Christmas to all other left-wing politicians, that it should not have been built, that it is not good for anything, how inhumane. Despite all these foreign pressures, Hungary has done so. No matter how many of us were attacked, no matter how sharp we were attacked from abroad and inland, we built the fence and set up the border hunting regiment. Fortunately, we are well over 900 of the number of border hunters with whom we have signed a contract. The smaller part is still under training, but the larger part has already reached the end of the training and can protect the Hungarian southern border against violent smugglers who often find weapons, knives, pepper spray and others. In other countries, this can be said less than in Hungary. They have launched a wide range of procedures against us, supported by various international sources to ensure that the rights of illegal migrants are respected everywhere, but they have not been able to make a substantial contribution to the Hungarian fence building alone. This is one part of our sovereignty so that we can decide on our population. The other is economic independence. Mr President, you said that the Hungarian government's policy was wrong. Let me explain to you, however, how much electricity costs in euro cents per kilowatt hour in Budapest and other European capitals. In Budapest 9,22, in Bucharest 16, in London 39, in Vienna 43, in Brussels 53, in Berlin 54, in Copenhagen 66. In Hungary 9,22! And let's see how much gas costs in euro cents per kilowatt hour. In Budapest 5, in Bucharest 6, in Brussels 16, in Berlin 24, in Vienna 27, in Copenhagen 40, in Amsterdam 42. 5 in Hungary, honourable Member. You can't call the economic policy that helped people wrong. Because one of the important steps is to increase people's income, so we reduced taxes to 15 percent personal income tax, family-type taxation, which can bring taxation down to zero percent, which is why we have radically raised the minimum wage to increase the wage and thus the people's wages. This increased their income, and in addition, we managed to reduce their expenses by keeping the overhead at a low level. Name another country, honourable Member, where we can still buy electricity and gas for households at minus 25 percent compared to the 2013 price. Name another country like this. You said the government's policy of this kind failed. Well, tell me a country that's done better. 'Cause if we're unsuccessful, and there's only worse results than us, then they're really, really, really not successful. According to Eurostat's latest statement, which was discussed here in Parliament last week, Hungary, Croatia and Latvia are at the positive end of the list as to how average domestic gas prices in euro have developed and at the other end are Sweden, Denmark and the Netherlands. Even according to Eurostat, if I compare the first six months of data, this year and last year, they have increased in all other countries, and in most countries, the cost of overhead has risen radically, not by 30, but by 110 percent, only Hungary could remain an exception. You say that Hungary is a failure, and that the rest is not a failure, while even Eurostat shows that Hungary is the only place where a very important part of the livelihood could remain at the level of overhead costs. Where is another country that can give HUF 181 000 in proportion to the cost of the overhead? ! Another issue is that with sanctions, Europe has put itself in a very, very difficult position. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-08-8	I now give the floor to the representative of the Dialogue, Tamás Mellar.
u2022-11-08-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The Hungarian economy is in crisis, in a long, deep crisis. This crisis is much larger, much stronger than the crisis in 2008-09, covering all areas of the economy. I would just like to mention five of them here. One is the debt crisis. The government debt is huge, the debt-to-GDP ratio is above 80%, and it will even increase because we are taking on new loans. Inflation is persistently above 20% and will not decrease until next spring. Food prices have increased by 50-60 percent and further increases can be expected. The third thing: the exchange rate of the forint is chronically weakening, the euro exchange rate is permanently above 400 HUF. It is true that it has increased somewhat in the last day, but the fundamental reason for this is that the central bank's base rate has risen enormously to 18 percent. Obviously, it's just going to be a passing state. The fourth thing is the social crisis. More and more families, now nearly one million, are in a hopeless situation as a result of the crisis, because they cannot pay for increased food and household energy prices. The fifth is the crisis in the education system. There is a chronic shortage of teachers in Hungary, the quality of education is low and deteriorating. These problems cannot be dealt with by the Orbán government, especially because it is he who created them, i.e. the Fidesz government itself is the problem. Because the Orbán government has created an economic system that is not productive, so the only way it can function is by constantly receiving additional resources. This has been easy in recent years, because European Union funds have been in place, but now that these funds have gone low, it is forced to take on new and new loans. Second, NER's economic system is inefficient, low productivity, high production costs, which obviously pushes prices up. The reason why this market is not efficient is because the market is not really selective on the basis of efficiency, but rather on the basis of loyalty. The next problem is that the international competitiveness of the Fidesz economic system is also very low, and therefore, in order to maintain the balance of the external trade balance, it is necessary to constantly weaken the forint for the survival of domestic exports and the lure of foreign companies. The fourth thing is that NER's economic system is actually only supporting an entrepreneurial circle that is loyal to the Fidesz government, instead of people, there is no money left for social support in the scarce years. The current amendment of the Fundamental Law is actually a confession, the government admits that it does not know, but it no longer wants to help people in trouble. Finally, the fifth point: the Orbán economic system produces an extensive growth, just like the former socialist system, which is now driven by construction and catering. In these areas, low-skilled people are needed, and the government does not want to improve the quality of the education system. Moreover, less informed and poorly trained people are clearly easier to manipulate and deceive. It is therefore clear that the Orbán government cannot be expected to solve the problems that they have created. Consequently, the longer they remain in power, the greater the crisis and the more time it will take to rebuild. Of course, we cannot expect Fidesz to think of this and to leave power as soon as possible, and therefore Hungarian society must join forces to save the future. Once again, the opposition round table should be set up to accommodate civil society groups and movements, independent stakeholder organisations and opposition parties. [[13.30]] The framework for our cooperation and the programme of exiting the crisis must be developed immediately. This is the only way to avoid the great national tragedy, because it is not the sanctions in Brussels that are destroying the country, but the Orbán government. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the lines of DK, Momentum, Dialogue and MSZP.]]
u2022-11-08-10	In response, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, has the floor.
u2022-11-08-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You are seeing a crisis in your speech in the country, but the reality is quite different. He is leading this crisis, and he is responsible for the government of the causer, the originator of it, and even for Viktor Orbán personally. I think that you would rather say or say your wishes here in Parliament, the political desires of opposition and opposition: let there be a crisis, let this country finally collapse, let us come to government! This direction, this policy, which you, by the way, have experienced as a politician, as an experienced person, as a retired person, does not belong here in Parliament. You're talking about cooperation on this one thing we agree on. Well, not in the way you said you wanted the opposition to work together. Let the country unite. Let the country join together from this trouble, from this difficulty [[Szabolcs Szabó intervenes.]] that affects the country, the whole of Europe, and even the whole world, we have to come out, we have to get through it. [[Szabolcs Szabó: Sure!]] [[Szabolcs Szabó intervenes.]] that affects the country, the whole of Europe, and even the whole world, we have to come out, we have to get through it. (Szabolcs Szabó: Sure!) True, this can only be done by cooperation, by cooperation. It requires at least an opposition that does not create a crisis, but tells reality and provides alternatives (Szabolcs Szabó intervenes). for the government. You have not made one suggestion in your speech before the agenda, and you have not told us what this government should do differently. [[Szabolcs Szabó: Steer!]] You are talking about a debt crisis, when, by the way, the level of debt, the amount of government debt compared to GDP is still below 80 per cent, and in the future, it is the government's intention to keep it. With regard to GDP, in the last year 2021, which was a difficult year, we have finished in the seventh place with a 7.1 percent increase in GDP, and now, again, this year, the rate of GDP will exceed the 4 percent increase, which I think is very positive in an international comparison with the European Union. If we look at the labour market, it is also not true that there is a crisis, because there would be a rapid increase in unemployment; instead, there are 4.7 million employees in Hungary and the unemployment rate is 3.6 percent, which is in the fifth place in the European Union. The latest data is the industrial production data of September, which you did not mention, of course, I understand, because the aim of your speech was not to tell the truth, in Hungary 11,3%, and in September the increase in industrial production increased by more than 11 percent compared to September of the previous year. If there were a crisis in this country, this number would certainly not be that many, but negative, as is already the case in the neighbouring countries. I think that, if we look at inflation and look at it, all of Europe is struggling with inflation, the magnitude of inflation, the increase in sanctions inflation. We know very well that much of this inflation has been caused by Europe itself by introducing sanctions against Russia, which have not affected Russia in the first place, but the European countries, and more so, the European people. In the German economy, France, the rate of inflation has reached peaks and is still deciding. Of course, Hungary is struggling with this, and the Hungarian government is also struggling with it, which is why for example the old premium for average consumption is available, which is why there are pricestops and interest stops. I deny what you have to say, this country is not in crisis. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] But he struggles to solve the difficulties. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Bence of Turdai applauds.]]
u2022-11-08-12	I now give the floor to Congressman László György Lukács, member of the Jobbik faction. Here you go.
u2022-11-08-13	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Many may think that we live in a strange country, because there is a government that blames sanctions for everything that the Prime Minister has voted eight out of eight in Brussels, or because, as an agricultural country, there will be a shortage by the end of the year of onions, potatoes, and at this rate bread and eggs have not increased elsewhere. Or you might think it's a strange country where it's the Ministry of the Interior that's doing health conversions. And, well, they're not far from this truth, yet it's unusual that one of the large supply systems is responsible for a ministry and is responsible for a minister who doesn't come from the health department. [[Bence Rétvári: Says a lawyer!]] However, with regard to health, it has become clear in recent days that the Ministry of the Interior has a strong position. This strong position points to a reform that will continue in the coming weeks, in the coming days, in the public eye, and the proposals should be discussed in public. I would like to state on this proposal, which was read from several places in the media, and this is Jobbik's own, now consistent, old position [[Bence Rétvári: Consequent!]] : We believe that with a robust, strong public health problem, the Hungarian health system can be truly successful, the state funding must be of decisive weight, because he is able and demonstrated by the coronal virus epidemic, he is able to bridge the supply difficulties in difficult situations. However, with regard to the plan we are familiar with, allow me to forward a few points of discussion and to give criticism. You're touching that device again. [[Bence Rétvári: Something you don't know!]] which, in recent times, has not worked in health care, nor elsewhere, that nationalisation and centralisation will again take place. Nationalisation and centralization now reach the general practitioners, reach the specialist clinics in the municipalities, and even reach the lab service. You believe that, since this could be a solution to everything, it is the institution that everything is organised at the centre. I have had experience from 2010 to 14 as a local government representative in what it is like to have a local health institution in the municipality, and indeed to be a farmer, and it has demonstrated that the municipalities can be good owners of the clinics, good owners of our hospitals, good owners of the protective service, and a fair deal and fair agreement with the general practitioners to ensure basic care. Compared to that, the new nationalization and centralization you have planned. The concept that a county, a hospital, and that they can send the individual workers or doctors to their place of work will lead to small hospitals that are now either Karcagon, Orosháza or other settlements being permanently eliminated and will continue to lose their ability to supply at the expense of the local population. The lab nationalization, i.e. the lab diagnostic nationalization to which they are preparing, will most likely end, and the end will be that quality and innovation, which has so far been typical of this area, will be completely eliminated from the system; where the state has so far set foot, only waiting lists have increased and waiting lists have increased, and lab diagnostics is one of the most important tools that should be protected for therapy. Of course, it must be clear and, let's say, fair competition and fair market conditions in the field of laboratory services, as this is how the state can manage its own resources most cost-effectively. The termination of the contribution contracts they're planning will essentially be the death of the small hospitals. Currently, these hospitals are able to carry out their work properly by means of a contract of contributions. This will also mean, in many cases, that the specialized clinics that are now the jewels of care, which are the outpatient clinics of the larger settlements, will be completely empty, and will not reflect the demand that the population would have wanted. It is also not possible to go without a word to block the protection service of Hungaricum, if you will, besides nationalization, which would now be added to hospitals and organised by hospitals. [[13.40]] It is a service, and someone who has children, had children, and met a protective woman, knows that it is a service that is really well placed at the nearest available point in the population, in general health care and in the care of the general public. In connection with the on-call procedure, they brought gifts and no gifts, and the general practitioners are not tidying up, and ambulances are given additional responsibilities again. Dear Secretary of State, In conclusion, let me say that health reforms are successful if there is broad support behind them. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] social support, on the one hand, and professional support on the other. Once again, you want to make a reform, a transformation, without knowing the position of the profession, and without having the support of its people. Looks like we needed a separate medical wallet after all. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and DK.]]
u2022-11-08-14	Once again, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2022-11-08-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, One of the first words hit the ears of many of us that the Jobbik is consistent. However, Jobbik has a lot to think about in the last ten years, but not consistency, honourable Member. You've already said everything and the opposite of everything. Right now, they have a current position, we'll see who they're hitting at, and they'll follow that position. But let us look at the actions, honourable Member: what have you done for Hungarian health care? You did what you did for the health care of Hungary before you were a representative and leader of the faction, and a better politician, that you carried doctors abroad; not as a guide, to look around, but to work. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman intervenes.]] You said that in a six-month period, you took up to 62 doctors to Ireland to work from Hungary. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: It's also a lie!]] You stood up here in Parliament and talked about how important it is to improve the quality of health care, and everyone agrees with that, but just explain to me how much you have improved the quality of healthcare in Hungary by dealing with taking doctors abroad to work in Western Europe. Is that the credibility and the consistent position you stand for, honourable Member? Thank God that in recent years the number of doctors applying for a foreign work permit has fallen to a fraction of what it was in 2010, but the number of people going abroad has been a part of you, and after that you stand up and say that better quality care is needed in Hungary, there is a need for more qualified doctors. [[Dr. László György Lukács intervenes.]] As far as rural hospitals are concerned, honourable Member, you have said very nice sentences. But would you have dared to say these sentences when your own allies, such as Imre László and Congressman Komárom, said that 45 percent of hospitals should be closed? [[Dr. László György Lukács: I told you, imagine!]] That's what Imre László said, 45 percent of hospitals are not needed. [[Dr. László György Lukács: I told you, and you will do him this favor!]] then Mr Komáromi said that more could be closed, less is enough for Hungarian care. Then you didn't say a word, you didn't say a word. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Of course you did, but you didn't listen.]] You couldn't hear his voice saying that Jobbik's consistent position to quote you couldn't accept that the Left's election program was about hospital closure, and that it was about hospital closure. When it comes to fear of someone in rural small hospitals [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks, that's you!]] on behalf of whom you have spoken here, that is precisely you, honourable Member, because you have made it clear during the election campaign and in recent years that most of the Hungarian hospitals will certainly be closed, and obviously these hospitals will be among the first ones. Of course, the left has a practice in closing major hospitals in Budapest, so let's not be unfair. They were able to close OPNI, Schöpf-Merei Hospital in quotes, so the closure of large hospitals in Budapest is also attached to the left, but obviously this kind of plan would have affected small hospitals most of you. Or what your leader Ferenc Gyurcsány here in Parliament has repeatedly confirmed that the visitation fee and hospital daily allowance were part of an important reform and stand up for them today. It has not been a year since you said here in Parliament that you are still in favour of the package you call reform, which was actually about paid health, honourable Member. And let's remember that. Why did they tell you to make health care pay? They said that they're going to introduce a visitation fee, that they're going to introduce a hospital daily allowance, that every patient has to pay for a doctor-patient meeting, that they're going to make a wage increase for doctors. And what did they do? They took a month's rent from the doctors. They told the patient to pay to make more money by the doctor. Then they told the doctor, "From now on, my dear friend, you will earn less." This is the left, honourable Member. Let's look at what's happened, very briefly, in the last few years. Yet, in order to renovate 91 rural hospitals, this government has created cover in whole or in part. The renovation of 54 clinics, 107 rescue stations, has also made health care more secure for rural people. 23 new clinics were built and 34 new rescue stations. Taking a GP practice at the beginning of our administration was an average GP practice of 867,000 forints. How much now? 2 million 900 thousand forints, Your Honour, instead of 867 thousand forints. At the time, a beginner doctor's gross basic salary was 129 thousand forints, now 619,000 forints. At that time, a doctor working 40 years ago at the end of his career had 262,000 forints on average, now 2 million 142,000 forints. At that time, a nurse with an OKJ degree paid a starting salary of 4-6 years with a legal relationship of 160,000 forints, now 517 thousand forints. Honourable Congressman, You know that we have adopted next year's budget with further increases in health care, in the order of 100 billion, and, of course, wage increases will continue, and doctors' wage increases will continue in the coming year. Compared to this, you are working abroad [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and they offered downsizing to Hungarian paid health care. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-08-16	Now it's time for Momentum's representative, Endre Tóth. I give you the floor.
u2022-11-08-17	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, In November 2009, Viktor Orbán visited St. Petersburg, talked to President Putin in person, and then simply disappeared, the liberal politician who demanded the immediate withdrawal of Soviet occupying troops in 89 in the name of youth, but the conservative politician who condemned the 2008 Russian invasion of Georgia with harsh words disappeared without a trace. After the meeting in St. Petersburg, instead of former Viktor Orbán, Budapest received a populist leader, who was an example of repressive systems, who were friends with eastern dictators. He wondered how to bring down the pillars of the Hungarian democratic rule of law. He wanted to cement his own personal power by drawing on the toolbox that President Putin showed him. Of course, he didn't put that out on his flag, because it wouldn't have been very popular in his electoral camp at the time, because many people viewed him as a kind of anti-communist hero at the time, who could resist the Russian influence, who said in a loud voice at the time, that we didn't want to be the happiest barracks of the Gazprom. Then we became Russian-friendly under the government of Viktor Orbán, the happiest barracks of Gazprom and Rosatom and, of course, the Communist China, the University of Fudan and the railroad construction of Chinese interests. So much for fidesz anticommunism. Zoltán Balog no longer waves a Tibetan flag for some reason, the government does not call for the persecution of the Communist China, the protest against the Russian invasion is not organized by Fidelitas, and Péter Szijjártó does not draw parallels between 1956 and the Ukrainian-Russian war and the aggression of the Russians. My fellow members of the Government. After the 2010 elections, you have made a 180-degree turn in your foreign policy, and you have deceived and betrayed your conservative electoral camp. And when they lament that Buda was gone, and in April they failed all the constituencies of Buda that had previously been the bastion of Fidesz, they should know that one of the important reasons for this is that your prime minister has indeed sat on the lap of the modern-day Tsar, because the descendants of the revolutionaries fighting in the Circle and Széna square, the citizens of Buda who have been destroyed, intimidated and observed by the Communists, will never forgive you. Because they know exactly the important lessons of Hungarian history, which you deliberately do not want to know. [[Intruders from the pro-government line: You went to the tiny villa, not us.]] You know who beat the freedom fight of 48 and 56. You know who took hundreds of thousands of our countrymen to starve and freeze in Siberia. You know who raped Radnóti's wife, Gyarmati Fanni and hundreds of thousands of other Hungarian women, and who killed the poet of Hungarian freedom, Sándor Petőfi. The citizens of Buda know this, but even in 2008, Viktor Orbán knew it, and he said that Hungary is in danger of being rejoined into the Russian sphere of interest. The government either does not perceive or worry about this danger, or even as if it is helping this dangerous process. Every word you say is true for today's situation. But the most serious problem is not their turn, but that your opening to the east has not remained at the level of sound economic pragmatism. You deliberately pushed the country into political dependence from Eastern dictators, because for whom critical infrastructure and nuclear power plants are being built by state companies in authoritarian countries, it becomes extortionable. [[13.50]] Whoever gets hacked by hackers and Russian spies invade his capital becomes vulnerable. And if you alienate your own allies, you can stay in trouble alone. You have also taken the wrong horse, because the global dominance of the eastern dictatorships has not come, and Russia is losing its great power in front of us when it is unable to win a military victory over the twenty-year-old Ukraine, and Ukrainian soldiers are constantly releasing the occupied settlements from day to day. So you put on the wrong horse when you based the Hungarian federal policy on a Russia that started a bloody war and then burned down as a military power, and finally the western sanctions put down its economy for ten years, from which the intellectuals fled, where they did not have access to the most basic Western technologies. Are they really the best allies we have? Do they really need to be entrusted with the nuclear safety of our country? You have been actively working over the past decade to weaken our true allies, Western democracies. By joining the European extreme right, funded by the Russians, European unity was drilled from the inside. You have committed a historical crime against our country and Europe. [[Bence Rétvári: You're a Sanctionist, congratulations!]] But I have some bad news for you: the time for eastern dictators and eastern dictatorships has not come. [[Bence Rétvári: Nor the Momentum!]] So, in vain, the Prime Minister thinks he's a world political genius. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] In fact, our opening to the East is a complete moral and political failure. [[It's a rare round of applause from Momentum, Dialogue and DK.]]
u2022-11-08-18	Tamás Menczer, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2022-11-08-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, First of all, if you have spoken about Russia, you have mentioned many things, but it is the war that is most important, in this connection allow me to avoid any misunderstanding that I believe in your mind that I should say and stress again the position of the Hungarian Government, namely that we are on the side of peace. We said and said that this war shouldn't have started. Before the war broke out, we said that everything must be done to preserve peace; now we say that everything must be done to restore peace. We are calling for an immediate ceasefire and effective negotiations, because it is in our interest. Of course, we stand for Ukraine's territorial sovereignty and integrity, but we also say that the sanctions policy with which Brussels reacted to the war is extremely harmful, ineffective and ineffective. I'd like to reflect on some of the things you've been kind enough to mention. First of all, if I understand what you said correctly, you do not understand what Viktor Orbán is doing and why he is doing it. I am not too surprised at this, because Viktor Orbán always represents the interests of Hungary and stands for the interests of Hungary, and this was never typical of Momentum in his short life. [[Bence Rétvári laughs.]] That is why you, honourable Member, do not understand the Hungarian Prime Minister. I encourage you to try to understand him, but I do not have too much hope for these experiments, I say once again, especially with regard to the fact that we are on a different basis, and on another basis is the government, the governing parties under the leadership of the Prime Minister, and the left, including your party, and your party in particular. I'll get back to you on that. And that difference is that we represent the interests of Hungary, and you have never done so. [[Eszter Vitalos: That's right!]] That's why the Prime Minister and the government don't understand what they're doing. Let me mention a few more things. So, for example, you mentioned the opening to the east, honourable Member, that the opening to the east was a complete failure. You don't understand. The Eastern opening was necessary, and this is not a Hungarian peculiarity, this is what every country does, because over ten years ago 80 percent of global investments in the world were financed from western capital and 20 out of Eastern capital, and now 70 percent are financed from Eastern capital and only 30 out of Western capital. So the proportions have turned around, there is huge competition for investments in the East and for the Eastern markets. And how successful or not the opening of the East has been: in the last three years, i.e., in 19 years, in 20 and 21 most of the investments have always been made in Hungary from an eastern country, twice from South Korea and once from China. Our exports increased by 45 percent, and our trade traffic increased by 48 percent in relation to the Eastern opening. You attacked the Paks investment to reflect on another question. What are you attacking: Hungarian energy security, Hungarian energy supply? Paks accounts for half of the energy production in Hungary and one third of the consumption in Hungary. Without Paks, there's no energy security, no overhead cuts. Nuclear power plant, nuclear power means cheap, safe and clean energy. Moreover, now that gas and oil prices are constantly fluctuating, they are also a predictable source of energy. You are also attacking this, of course, contrary to the Hungarian interest. And how you are, Your Honour, the Momentum. I told you, they never represent the Hungarian interest. You're pro-sanctioned. Anna Donáth: The sanctions imposed are in operation. András Fekete-Győr: If we were on the government, we would have definitely joined the oil embargo. And it could be classified. In addition, from a different perspective, from the point of view of the reduction of the rent, Márton Tompos says that the reduction of the rent was a political product, quoting socialist times. He completely ignored any market logic. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, So you would abolish the reduction of the rent that protects people, while at the same time supporting the sanctions that are affecting European people, including Hungarian people. Once again, you have never represented the interests of Hungary and have never represented the Hungarian people. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] To conclude, you lecture me and the government on who your allies are and how Hungarian interests should be represented. You have also betrayed Hungarians across the border every time, and anyone who betrays the foreigners betrays those who live within the border. That's who you are. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-11-08-20	I now give the floor to the head of the MSZP faction, Bertalan Tóth.
u2022-11-08-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, For months now, it seems like the Orbán government has lost control. They're drifting, they're not in control of the process, like they're interfering with government heads. However, if we are looking for some logic in what is happening, we see that somehow the aggressor is always playing from Putin's sheet music, and somehow they are always at odds with the interests of Hungary and our allies. For example, there is the question of accession to Sweden and Finland to NATO. You are currently hindering the strengthening of our federal system, which is in Hungary's primary interest. You are messing with the sovereign decisions and lives of two other peoples. Dear fellow Members of the Fidesz Group, It's time to pull their heads out of Putin's shadow. There will be a vote on the agenda today; in the interests of Hungary, please stop playing this stupid, cynical and harmful game and, after four months, put these proposals on the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, There are other areas where there is confusion in Fidesz. First of all, you're mixing gas addiction with Gazprom addiction. I'm gonna say this slowly, there's no gas addiction, no Gazprom addiction. Hungary's energy security can be created without Gazprom, and now everyone knows that Orbán lied and lied Szijjártó about Gazprom delivering cheaper than others. Second, you're confusing the Treasury with the piggy bank. We don't pay more and more taxes so that the Orbán clan and the Fidesz elite can reach into it as they please, but in order to provide state care, if we get into a social crisis, be a chance-making, high-quality education and healing public health. The budget is not the household fund of Orbán or Lőrinc Mészáros. Compared to this, Fidesz has destroyed health care, derailed the education system, and is now preparing to leave the social area. According to the MSZP, that would be the task of the state, the provision and the creation of a chance. Thirdly, you constantly confuse important and unimportant things. You consider it important to raise György Matolcsy's salary of $5 million a month. You'd rather be interested in the inflection of Matolcsy's multimillion-dollar salary than in settling the wages of underpaid teachers. When a huge livelihood crisis begins to unfold in Hungary, there has been an unprecedented increase in stores for decades, brutal energy price increases have been introduced by the government, massive bankruptcies, public services are in danger, it is incomprehensible that you want to increase your salary to the György Matolcsy, who has actively participated in the destruction of the forint, who has not prevented the brutal increase, and who has first organized the money due to foreign exchange credit victims into foundations, and then his family and friends have enriched at a dizzy pace. Shame on you! [[14.00]] And last but not least last week, the Prime Minister here in Parliament said that the reason why there is no money for a raise for teachers is because every penny that the budget collects as an extra income goes to public security. Ladies and gentlemen, This is also a lie, your boss lied again, because in the first nine months of the year only the amount of VAT collected exceeded last year's level by HUF 1169 billion, and by about HUF 1100 billion it exceeds the rate planned for this year, and this is only the VAT. Compared to this, MVM's losses amounted to only HUF 157.5 billion last week, that's what had to be paid. Where do they put the extra money? 'Cause it's not for the rent, that's for sure. All this means that there is 350 billion forints in the budget to raise the wages of teachers, give it to me! But there is also money to reduce the VAT rate for electricity and natural gas to 5 percent, and it would also be available to the elderly who are receiving a pension below average for the 10 thousand HUF monthly return for the heating season. We need a crash stop, not a fidesz cutback. For our future, for Hungary! [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-11-08-22	Mr. Balázs Fürjes has the floor.
u2022-11-08-23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I can repeat my fellow State Secretary in part, so the Hungarian Government and the Hungarian Parliament stated Hungary's position very clearly at the time of the outbreak of the war and several times since then, which, by the way, was very clearly confirmed by Mr Speaker on the weekend: Hungary is a neighbouring country interested in a sovereign, strong and democratic Ukraine, which is able to give its citizens the opportunity to thrive in the homeland. We have condemned Russian aggression, we have also said here in Parliament that it violates international law, what Russia is doing, and we are fulfilling all our related obligations in the EU and NATO Member States. So what you're saying is simply a lie, not in line with the facts. Compared to this, three fundamental issues affect the lives of the citizens of the nation states in Europe and Hungary: this is the endowment of war or peace, sanctions and, in the case of Hungary, the EU funds due to Hungary by Brussels. Undoubtedly, there is a radical contrast between us on these three issues, but as eternal optimists we hope that they will find their way back to the position of Hungarian interests. It is clearly in Hungary's interest and the interests of Hungary's citizens are peace. From the beginning of the war, you are pro-war, you could quote countless quotes from you, sending weapons, sending soldiers to Ukraine, and bringing Hungary into this war, solely for election mathematical reasons. However, after the election, one or two of their representatives said that the war position was wrong from a campaign point of view. We know this, but it would have been better not to tell the truth, just as Gergely Christmas did not talk about closing the quay before the election, when she made that decision, because she's still losing to the voters. So you've acknowledged that the war position may have been wrong from a campaign point of view, but you've been going on the same way ever since. And since the war broke out, and since all its negative consequences have been borne by the citizens of Hungary, there has been no comment from you here in Parliament or in the European Parliament on the side of peace. [[Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] and with which they would join the Hungarian position to finally have a truce and start the peace negotiations. None of their mayors and the mayor have joined the initiative of county-righted cities in which the letters to the European Union were written by the mayors of the major cities of Hungary, and they are asking the Union to change the economic recession policy, to remove the sanctions imposed on Europeans, including Hungarians; to make available to us the sources of the catch-up and recovery fund for Hungarian citizens as well. The only real antidote to war is peace. We have to want it together. By Károly Szita on behalf of mayors with county rights. Only one mayor has not joined this, including the Mayor of Budapest, Gergely Christmas. You are also in favour of sanctions in the case of sanctions, and the Secretary of State quoted earlier is a part of their pro-sanctional statements. Get off this field! The context is clear: in Western Europe, they write and talk about how sanctions are used to shoot Europe itself. The third question is that they should finally stop working against Hungary in Brussels and elsewhere and work to ensure that Hungary does not receive the EU funds that are legally due to us. They are not harming the Hungarian government, they are harming Hungarian businesses, the citizens of Hungary, they are being punished; they will not be successful, but it would undoubtedly be more effective if Hungary were not working so that Hungary does not receive the EU funds we deserve. There has also been a lot of talk about the explanation in the House, unfortunately it is no wonder: whoever orders the music makes the song. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] You have given up your independence, you have sold out, you are financed from abroad, and until then it is undoubtedly difficult to expect you to be political in the interests of Hungary. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-08-24	Kálmán Olga, a member of the DK faction, also came forward to comment before the agenda. I give you the floor.
u2022-11-08-25	Dear House, Dear Parliament, Fantastic thing happened: the government pays the public, small and medium-sized enterprises' bills in December. This is a very good thing, because people can breathe, businesses can breathe, there will be no overhead in December! There's only one thing wrong with this happening in Germany, not us. [[Eszter Vitályos: Credit!]] The German government spends EUR 9 billion to pay people and businesses' bills in December. Meanwhile, what does the Hungarian government do? It hangs a seven-time gas price around the neck of the Hungarians. Whose government did we hear from Viktor Orbán, and then quickly dealt with the seven-time gas price increase and the debt crisis for the Hungarians. In spite of the low price of gas on the world market, we will pay one of Europe's most expensive bills, and with our money spent on rent, Lőrinc Mészáros will have an extra profit. So much for what your government has done. Well, Fidesz fellow Members, thank you for the seven-time raise. As you know, in view of the dramatic situation, the shadow government has created a regime fund. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties. Bence Rétvári: Ooh!]] This is an initiative that anyone can make a contribution to. [[Dr. Répássy, Róbert: Non-Savior. Intercoms from the pro-government benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] With the money gathered, we will pay the bills due in December to people, families, and elderly people who would no longer be able to do so on their own initiative. Are you laughing at that, like you did before? [[Bence Rétvári: You laughed too!]] You're laughing at that, too? [[Bence Rétvári: You laughed!]] So far, we have collected nearly 20 million forints. For us luxurious yachts and helicopterless mortals, that's a lot of money. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: Who? Gyurcsány?]] However, there is obviously little we can do to help everyone. But like everything else, there is a solution to this: if you do want to support people, if you do think that you need to support people and not yourself and your own pockets. [[Bence Rétvári and Eszter Vitályos: Tiny-fork!]] And if the public wants to pay [[Bence Rétvári: Small fork, change!]] Fidesz luxuries, and yet you would support them, then I found you a few items that could be transferred to the regime fund. You are preparing to buy Vodafone for HUF 715 billion. They've got hotels, yachts, energy companies, banks, TVs, radios, they've never had a phone company before, didn't they get one when they'd spend it in the middle of a livelihood crisis? According to the shadow government, rather than buy Vodafone, transfer this HUF 715 billion to the regime fund. Let's use this money to help people. You are preparing to start renovating the Parliament from nearly half a billion forints, because families and elderly people may freeze in their unheated apartments, but at least you will be able to take nice photos of you, the Fidesz Members and ladies in the renovated Parliament. This is really important. [[14.10]] The shadow government believes that Parliament should not be renovated now, but that half a billion forints should be transferred to the regime fund. You are preparing to spend more than HUF 5 billion on the latest brainwashing, the latest national consultation and your disgusting bomb posters. Yeah, and then who knows where the money's gonna end, the spending! According to the shadow government, do not consult us, nor post a poster full of lies in the country, pay at least 5 billion forints into the Rehabilitation Fund, help people with this money. And there's a list of what they're spending on. They spend 238 billion forints on the National Athletics Centre; they develop an employee activity measurement app for 150 million HUF and are preparing to raise György Matolcsy's salary? Well, he really deserves it. These are not necessary; these funds should all be paid into the regime fund. It's just what I listed here all of a sudden is almost a thousand billion forints. Almost a thousand billion forints! That's an awful lot of money. Only 250 thousand HUF of the above items could be provided to all Hungarian households. So don't point to sanctions, war, you're the reason there's a crisis in Hungary. [[Voices from the benches of the governing parties, including, "Woe!]] This is your chance to prove that they are not working against Hungarian people and Hungarian families: transfer these funds to the regime fund! We will give all the incoming money to families in trouble until the last forint, because unlike you, the shadow government really works for the country and the Hungarians. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2022-11-08-26	Once again, I give the floor to Zsófia Koncz. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
u2022-11-08-27	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Mrs Shadow Spokesperson, Well, there's a very nice, discreet charm to be talking about the overhead, the overhead, the overhead. I really think it's time for straight talk. [[Eszter Vítalos: I would!]] Energy prices were raised 15 times before 2010, these are facts. And it is also a fact that the Hungarian families paid for the highest energy price before 2010 and brought them into a foreign exchange crisis; otherwise, the situation was hopeless for the municipalities as well. [[Kálmán Olga intervenes.]] And it is important to talk about these because you have now formed a shadow government and are trying to make suggestions, but the fact is that this country, this nation, has already experienced the crisis when you want to govern, that is, you have steered, and I think we have had a clear answer to the fact that this was not a good way. With regard to the protection of electricity, it must be said that it is indeed an incredibly great task to represent national interests in all circumstances, and I think that this is what the Hungarian Government is doing. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh intervenes.]] And the 181 thousand forints that Hungarian families receive every month are really a huge sum and a huge support. The fact is that such support is not given anywhere else within Europe, so I think that these should not be forgotten. [[Kálmán Olga intervenes.]] And this government is trying to help families in this difficult situation with further measures, which, as a result of sanctions, is clearly becoming more difficult and difficult, and I would also like to ask Mrs Shadow Speaker to try to serve the Hungarian national interest in these difficult struggles out in Brussels and in other international forums, and to try to help the Hungarian Government, because we really need to join forces when Europe is in such a difficult situation. In addition, in preparation for the winter period, it must be said that this government helps families, pensioners and Hungarian people with different programs. Such are the firewood programme, the brown coal programme, the pricestops, the large family members, and we are trying to help small and medium-sized enterprises here, for example, by maintaining and extending interest rates to loans from small and medium-sized enterprises. I think that this is a great help and we have launched a programme of support for them. The first registration phase of the energy support programme with a budget of HUF 100 billion started this year on 20 October 2022. In addition, we announced a factory rescue program, where we first support investments to increase energy efficiency of HUF 150 billion in total, and those who missed registration can submit their applications. We also extend the Széchenyi Card loan program. I think these are really very helpful. And if we are talking about energy and the shadow government, it should also be said that it is an incredible help for the Hungarian people, the Hungarian economy, that we have natural gas reservoirs in national hands, and these had to be bought back, and this is now a matter of national strategy. And it is also very good news that the charge of domestic gas reservoirs is above 86 percent at this moment, which is nearly 50 percent more than the level required by the European Union's gas storage regulation for this date. Storage capacities and Hungary's gas supply contract are the basis for securing needs. I think this is also a very big achievement. In addition, with the petrol stop, we can ensure a continuous and very good price for fuel supply. We also negotiate on an ongoing basis; we also negotiate with the municipalities. We are concerned that, at this very difficult time, which is linked to sanctions, because inflation through sanctions and the prices of food have increased for the whole country, we need a clear cooperation, so I would like to ask the representative to be on the path of this cooperation in the future, because this is the only way that the current situation can be resolved together and successfully. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Kálmán Olga intervenes.]]
u2022-11-08-28	I now give the floor to the group leader of the Christian Democratic People's Party, Member István Simicskó.
u2022-11-08-29	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, We've had this sad and terrible sister war in our neighbourhood for over eight months, which is indeed a local war in military terms, but in economic terms it is already affecting the world as a whole, and in an economic sense it is a specific world war. The European Union also feels the negative effects of this, even with its misguided sanctioning policy, and this makes the situation of its own citizens even worse. I think it's visible and visible even from the shadows. Europe must prepare for a deep and prolonged crisis, it seems. Henry Kissinger is often quoted as the work of the World Order, in which he brought and wrote a kind of projection of the present situation, and briefly summarized that chaos is threatening our world, while the need for unprecedented cooperation would arrive, as mankind must face global challenges, this close to 8 billion people here on planet Earth, which can only be found with the urge to cooperate. Ladies and gentlemen, We can see what conflicts there are elsewhere. I often say that since World War II, all 26 days have passed in peace in the world, so somewhere in the world there is always some kind of armed conflict or conflict. We can still face such conflicts, as there are many regions, like the Middle East, or North Korea's continuing launch of missiles, even over Japan; the threat of conflict between North and South Korea is significant; long-lasting conflicts between Azerbaijan and Armenia are still on the verge of war; and Serbia and Kosovo, and there are dozens of them in our world. So, although the UN was established after World War II, which states that there is only one legal state, that is the state of peace, we see that there are constant struggles and wars in our world. But indeed, we were hoping for XXI. By the century, if not for world peace, but because of the need for understanding and cooperation, nations will find each other and try to make sense of a common future. Instead, it seems that we have indeed entered a century of challenges, dangers, wars, threats. Ladies and gentlemen, In this troubled, rapidly changing world, you have to see what is important. In addition to ensuring safety, respect and respect for the elderly are important. On the one hand, because we must not forget the culture of respect, we need to strengthen it against disrespect; on the other hand, the wisdom of the elderly, the experience of life, the knowledge that has accumulated. It would be a great luxury if those nations, those societies, did not appreciate the knowledge, preparedness, life experience of the elderly, and it was the right thing to do. [[14.20]] We can move forward if young generations build and rely on the wisdom of the elderly, and, of course, if they are in a position of government, they have the opportunity to express this appreciation, this respect in the form of various grants, in the form of social care, in humanity and, of course, in the value of pensions. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that it is a huge thing when, in such a difficult international situation, in the midst of a global energy crisis caused by a failed EU sanctions policy, the Fidesz-KDNP government pays attention to the elderly and protects the elderly, our retired fellow citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, The government returned the 13th month pension taken by the left to pensioners. It's a huge thing in itself, even under these circumstances, and definitely. Let us add that no government measure to help pensioners has been supported since then either by the honourable representatives of the left, not even by voting for the reduction of the rent at the time. The Fidesz-KDNP government has decided that the increased pension will arrive this month, and the increase will now amount to 4.5 percent. This is the third time this year pensions have been increased, with a total of 14 percent. Since 2017, our retired fellow citizens have received a pension premium for the fifth time. Finally, let me mention the 40, which is also a success story, as since its introduction in 2011, some 346 thousand women have taken advantage of the possibility provided by the government, so they can retire at a reduced rate. Finally, let me conclude by saying that pensioners can expect the Fidesz-KDNP government even in such a crisis. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-11-08-30	I give the floor again to Secretary of State András Tállai.
u2022-11-08-31	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, I'd like to repeat the most important thing. On Friday, November 11, the fourth pension payment will start this year. Yes, the fourth and the government thus fulfill their commitment in 2010 and their promise to keep the value of pensions. But if you'll excuse us, we'd like to think back for a moment to the old times of 2010, because today it's so natural for all of us, pensioners, that if GDP develops, there's a pension premium, and if inflation is higher, then there's a pension supplement during the year. Let us remember the times when this was not always the case. It wasn't, because it wasn't before 2010. The real value of pensions fell by 4 percent between 2006 and 2010 during the socialist governance process. True, at that time, the left did not promise to keep the value of pensions, only that they would be predictable. Yeah, well, they were predictable, because the value of pensions gradually dropped at a level that eventually took away the 13th month's pension. The Fidesz government has done everything in its power to ensure the integrity, respect and economic pensions of pensioners [[Sic!]] Restore it according to the amount of money. Indeed, economic policy, businesses, public finances, taxation had to be put in order first, so that the budget would be balanced and that the promise made by the Fidesz-KDNP government could be fulfilled. This promise looks like the total amount of pension-related expenditure in 2010 was HUF 2700 billion per year, which is now HUF 4100 billion. We have kept our promise, and the purchasing value of pensions has been increased by 20 percent over the last 12 years. Dear Parliament, Dear pensioners, You can always count on the civilian government every year. The civilian government has fulfilled its promise even when the economy was doing well, and with pension premiums returned from surplus income, with other benefits for pensioners, and it is fulfilling it now, when the situation is harder, when inflation is higher when there is war, there are unfortunately many harmful sanctions on account of war. The European Union is trying to influence the war with continuous sanctions. The result is that it is putting the EU Member States in a more difficult and difficult position. But this does not affect the situation of pensions and pensioners in Hungary. By the way, this commitment is guaranteed by the law, as the law states that the value of pensions must be retained. So this year, this month, with the ordinary pension on 11 November, more than HUF 600 billion will be spent on pensioners with three types of title: ordinary pension, pension increase, extraordinary pension increase, 4.5 percent, and pension premium. Dear Parliament, It is also very important to mention that this year pensioners received their 13th month pension, some 2.5 people received HUF 370 billion back this year, the pension that the socialists had taken away. Dear Parliament, Dear Retired Society, They can still count on the Fidesz-KDNP government, because our promise to the pensioners will continue to be fulfilled in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-11-08-32	Dear House, I give the floor to János Halász, on behalf of Fidesz, as the last in the line of comments before today's agenda. Here you go.
u2022-11-08-33	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, There is an energy crisis due to sanctions in Brussels. Energy prices are dropping, so food prices are rising, inflation is rising, the burden on families and businesses is rising harshly. However, the government does not stand by the sanctions crisis; in addition to protecting families and older people from price increases, it also protects Hungarian businesses. In order to support businesses, the government has decided to introduce exceptional measures. The first such exceptional measure was an extension of the interest rate stop to small and medium-sized enterprises. The sanctions have led to the release of energy prices, the release of inflation. This is destroying the European and Hungarian economies, because its businesses are putting an increasing burden on them. The energy, purchasing and transport costs of businesses are increasing significantly, and many businesses are also having problems with the increase in loans due to sanctioning inflation, thus increasing our repayments significantly. The government will help you with that. Thanks to the government, an entrepreneurial interest-rate stop in mid-November and running until the end of June will result in a total reduction of HUF 80 billion. The measure concerns almost 60 thousand small and medium-sized enterprises with a loan of approximately HUF 2000 billion. The costs of the measure are borne by the banks as this can be managed for them, as rising interest rates also represent an increasing extra profit for them. Good news for businesses is that the Széchenyi Card program will continue in 2023. Interest rates are high, borrowings are tightened, working capital needs have increased and energy efficiency improvements require resources. In order to maintain Hungarian SMEs' recovery and competitiveness, the government decided to make the credit products of the Széchenyi Card program available in the first half of 2023, with a very favourable interest rate compared to the market rate, at a rate of 5 per cent per year, in order to help them. Let's not forget, the government continued to cut taxes again this year. With a HUF 600 billion reduction in employers' taxes, Hungary will be able to maintain its first position among the EU countries in 2022. According to the Eurostat table, the tax burden on GDP decreased by 2.1 percentage points last year in Hungary, while only four of the EU Member States, Croatia, France, Latvia and the Netherlands, have reduced this burden; others have stagnated or increased. Dear House, The government has launched the factory rescue program. The penalty response to the war in Ukraine is an increasing problem for companies to pay energy prices. [[14.30]] The government's clear ambition is to maintain previous objectives, of which full employment is very important, but the economic environment with sanctions also challenges this. This is why the aid scheme is needed. The factory rescue programme facilitates the energy efficiency improvements of successful large companies. After the summer months, more than 4.7 million people worked in Hungary in September. Unemployment has fallen to around one third of the total population and among young people compared to 2010. Dear House, All these measures are in sharp conflict with the failed economic policy of left-wing governments. We remember the days when the left was on the steering wheel. Even in difficult times, everyone has been taxed from the population to small and medium-sized enterprises. [[There's a grumble in DK's ranks.]] Their actions consisted solely of austerity rather than assistance. The Gyurcsánys have never voted in favour of any subsidies or reductions in overhead, and for nine years they have been demanding that the reduction be abolished. The dollar left is still in favour of the sanctions in Brussels causing the energy price explosion, and in exchange for foreign campaign money, they would also be able to cut off Russian gas from Hungarian families, pensioners and businesses. [[Intruder from Fidesz: That's right!]] Dear House, In addition to targeted subsidies, Hungarian entrepreneurs receive a number of other assistance from the government, but we know that the real solution would be to move European policy towards peace settlement. The Fidesz fraction is also fully supporting the government. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-08-34	I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go.
u2022-11-08-35	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, Since Hungary has a national government [[Gergely Harvestó: since.-90!]] We came out of every crisis stronger than we agreed to. As was the case with the pandemic, so we intend to do so now. Then we have taken great steps towards self-sufficiency, and now we are moving towards efficiency, especially energy efficiency. However, in order for this to happen, it is also necessary to help small entrepreneurs who are in a difficult situation due to sanctions in Brussels, they are the drivers of the Hungarian economy, and they also employ a significant proportion of Hungarian workers. The Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the National Association of Entrepreneurs helped us to assess the situation in a professional way. Without well-functioning businesses, there is no growth, no full employment. This would jeopardise the stability and existentiality of families. And the government intervenes and intervenes whenever necessary, that's what it's supposed to do, which is what we've been authorized to do by the voters. The war and the sanctions imposed on us have completely covered the operation of the economy, skyrocketed energy prices, and led to a drastic increase in interest rates on loans. Therefore, more measures were needed. In order to help Hungarian energy-intensive manufacturing companies, the government announced a HUF 100 billion programme next year and a HUF 100-120 billion programme. In total, the government supports energy-intensive small businesses with an amount of HUF 200-220 billion. This affects about 9,000 small entrepreneurs. Within the framework of the programme, we support 50% of the increased energy costs and provide significant support for energy efficiency investments. In return, the government expects that the number of employees employed by small businesses will not fall below 90 per cent of the current level by the end of 2023. The interest rates on loans rose dramatically, so the government accepted the request of the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and VOSZ, and extended the interest rate stop to non-State-supported, variable-interest, HUF-based SME loans. According to the decision, from 15 November 2022 until 30 June 2023, the interest rate on which the loans of small and medium-sized enterprises concerned are based shall not be higher than 7,77 per cent. The measure will automatically take effect, affecting some HUF 2000 billion of loans and 60,000 small businesses. Next is the continuation of the Széchenyi Card program, which will continue in 2023. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] , providing low-cost loans to businesses. In the first half of 2023 the loan products of the Széchenyi Card program will be available with a very favourable interest rate of 5 per cent per year, with no management costs compared to the market rate. From the start of the program until 2022, until today, 400 thousand loans were made, worth HUF 5100 billion. Last but not least, the government is launching factory rescue programs to help large companies. In the first round, the government provides HUF 150 billion in support of investments to increase the energy efficiency of large companies. The program is 30 percent in Budapest and 45 percent in the countryside. Entrepreneurs who increase their energy supply capacity through a minimum of HUF 200 million development can apply, thereby reducing their energy costs. Thanks to all these measures and the commitment of the Hungarian people, GDP growth of 4-5 percent, record low unemployment and two figures of wage growth are expected at the annual level. Thank you for your patience. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-08-36	Dear House, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2022-11-08-37	Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; Tünde Szabó, Fidesz; László Varju, DK; Zoltán Varga, DK; Andrea Hegedüs, DK; Sándor Bodó, Fidesz. Antal Csárdi, LMP; Dóra Dúró, Mi Hazank; Sándor Berki, Dialogue; Dániel Z. Karpát, Jobbik; Dávid Bedő, Momentum; Zita Gurmai, MSZP; Andrea Hegedüs, DK; Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP; Gabriella Selmeczi, Fidesz. For the speech following the agenda tomorrow, Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik applied. On Thursday, Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Előd Novák, Mi Hazank; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik. On Friday he applied for a speech after the agenda: Dániel Z. Karpát, Jobbik; Péter Balassa, Jobbik.
u2022-11-08-38	Dear Parliament, I declare that the Constitutional Court is the XC of 2017 on criminal proceedings in the context of the Conditional Procedure. During the preliminary control of the law on the amendment of the law, it stated that Article 1 of the law was applicable. Article 29 (1) of the Fundamental Law does not prejudice the principle of the prosecution's charging monopoly. Decision of the Constitutional Court T/706/18. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. I declare that the DK Group has proposed to supplement the agenda proposal, which is proposed in the House Rule 15 of the Decision. I refused pursuant to paragraph 4a of Section 4a, given that it is not subject to Article 15. It has been submitted in accordance with paragraph 4 of Section 4. The proposer of the rejected proposal initiated the repeal of the President's decision. The Parliament decides on this without debate, with a raise of hands. I would also like to announce that Group Leader Ferenc Gyurcsány has initiated a repetition of the vote using a ballot counting machine. In view of this, the raise-up vote will be held with the use of a machine counting the vote. [[14.40]] In accordance with the motion, I am now asking the Honourable Parliament to maintain the scope of the OE-42/538-2/2022. President's decision. Please vote by using a ballot counting machine. [[Vote.]] I note that the House maintained the President's decision in its scope by 113 votes in favour, 40 votes against and two abstentions; as this was the case, no decision on the proposal to supplement the agenda will be taken. Dear Parliament, I declare that the MSZP Group has made a similar proposal to supplement the agenda proposal, which was proposed in the House Rule 15 of the Decision. I refused pursuant to paragraph 4a of Section 4a, given that it is not subject to Article 15. It has been submitted in accordance with paragraph 4 of Section 4. The proposer of the rejected proposal initiated the repeal of the President's decision. The Parliament would vote on this without debate, with a raise of hands, but Mr Bertalan Tóth has initiated a repetition of the vote using a ballot counting machine. [[Bence Rétvári: Of course he is not here either.]] In accordance with Article 15 of the Treaty, I refused, given that this was not the case under Article 15 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. It has been submitted in accordance with paragraph 4 of Section 4. The proposer of the rejected proposal initiated the repeal of the President's decision. The Parliament would vote on this without debate, with a raise of hands, but Mr Bertalan Tóth has initiated a repetition of the vote using a ballot counting machine. (Bence Rétvári: Of course he's not here either.) In view of this, the raise-up vote will be held by using a machine counting the vote. In accordance with the motion, I am now asking the Honourable Parliament to maintain the scope of the OE-42/539-2/2022. President's decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the House maintained the Speaker's decision with 114 votes in favour, 40 votes against and two abstentions, so that no decision on the proposal to supplement the agenda will be taken. I will then ask this House to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, In the absence of a committee agreement, on the basis of the motion tabled by the President, we are now deciding on the Commission's discussion and decision-making. I ask the Honourable National Assembly to invite the designated Committee on Foreign Affairs.Hungary Helps Agency Nonprofit Zrt. B/1820 submitted in 2021 on its activities and operation for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare that the Parliament has asked the designated committee to take its decision by 115 votes in favour, 42 votes against and no abstentions. Dear House, Now, at 2:43 p.m., we move to interpellation negotiations after two minutes of technical break. [[Several Members are leaving the Chamber. Noise.]] I would ask my fellow Members to speak in the hallway. If you wish to remain in the Chamber, please take your place so that we can continue our work. (Recess: 14.43-14.45) President: László Fat Note: Dr. Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Szűcs)
u2022-11-08-39	Dear House, Mr László Varju, representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade. I give you the floor.
u2022-11-08-40	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Europe could finally breathe when, roughly three weeks ago, the world market price for gas reached a one-year low, which means it costs six times as much as it did last year. European households could also be at ease, since gas reservoirs have been filled, and no one is at risk of being left unheated because of high overhead bills. Europe has therefore avoided the crisis in terms of overhead, as Hungary could have avoided. However, you have decided differently. The Orbán system is once again facing Europe and not only said no to the European reduction in overhead, but also to the much cheaper Western gas than Russia. You are in favour of expensive Russian gas. Today, you are the only European government that has increased the price of gas seven times overnight and has not given any meaningful help to people. You have introduced the greatest gas price increase of all time. They decided not to heat schools above 18 degrees, even asking educational institutions if they could heat them with brown coal; that's what they're actually asking families. May I remind you, Secretary of State, that you have justified all your previous decisions with the high price of gas on the world market. They said that the price of gas on the world market can no longer be maintained, which is why families will pay seven times as much as before. That price on the world market today is six to one year ago. The price of gas is at a low point throughout Europe, yet Hungarians cannot breathe up, because you still leave the seven-time increase in force. Only Minister Péter Szijjártó will we receive a lecture on why I am not familiar with their classified gas contract. Be clear, a small part of the Hungarian gas bill goes to gas, and most of it is called profit. Profit, which the state MVM is looking for on the Hungarians' rents. So I ask Mr Secretary of State: do you want to replace Hungary from dependence on Russian gas? If so, what will they do for him? Why have you decided that profit is more important to you than the livelihood of Hungarians? Why don't you take back the seven-time gas price increase? Why did they say no to the European reduction of the rent when they knew precisely that it would make the Hungarians pay the most in Europe? In the end, but not least, how many people, how many families, how many pensioners will be without heat because of you? I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-11-08-41	State Secretary Tamás Menczer will answer. Here you go.
u2022-11-08-42	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, It is clear and clear that there is a great competition in the Democratic Coalition, honourable Member, there is a great competition in the fact that the great storyteller, the autumn buffet, the uncoronated king of lies [[Noise in DK's ranks. Gergely Harvesto: How expensive the gas is, talk about it!]] For Ferenc Gyurcsány... just a moment, Congressman, please. who will be your best student, and although this competition is great, Congressman Varju is certainly in a good position to compete in this competition. With regard to what you have said in relation to lies and truths, let me quote, you said that Europe has therefore avoided the crisis in terms of the rent, honourable Member. On the other hand, the German Foreign Minister said in July 2022 that if they do not receive Russian gas, they will be occupied with popular uprising. The German Chancellor said they'd probably get through the winter, not necessarily, not factually, that it's okay: they'll probably make it through the winter. Let's keep moving. [[It's an intervention from DK's ranks.]] The Slovak Prime Minister said that the Slovak economy is threatened by collapse. Let's keep moving. The International Energy Agency has prepared two horror scenarios for the European energy situation and the Agency expects Europe's gas supply to remain scarce next year. The German Vice Chancellor said that the German economy is sinking into recession next year, and he also said that this is not only a political and economic crisis, but is also becoming a social crisis. That's the international situation. Not to mention that French President Macron is already criticizing the Americans about why they are selling gas too expensively to Europe, by the way. And you claim that Europe has avoided the crisis in overhead. [[14.50]] Honourable Congressman, I don't know if you believe what you're saying is too bad. If he knows it's not true, and he does, it's too bad. Now, he also said that the Hungarian government is doing nothing. Of course, that's a lie. We provide monthly support of HUF 181 000 per month to families, which is the highest rate of support compared to wages in Europe. The next lie you've told is that the gas has suddenly become cheap. You've been saying that for days, weeks, but let's be clear that's not true. The gas price is fluctuating, but in a very high band, and the fact that it comes down a little bit over time in a very high band still means that the gas price is 5-7 times higher than peace time in the market where it is currently possible to buy large quantities and long term. This is indeed less than the summer price level when it was 10 times and 12 times and multiple, but this is still much more than what is currently seen at the gas price in peacetime. The next one of your lies is what you said or didn't say about sanctions, and if you didn't say it, I'll tell you, you're pro-sanctioned. You yourself said that sanctions must be imposed, action must be taken; Klára Dobrev said only that sanctions work and sanctions should continue, even though sanctions cause energy price increases and sanctions cause inflation. And one more thing, honourable Member, as a closing point, you are asking us to reduce the rent and you are concerned about the reduction of the rent. I quote you, László Varju, December 2021: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I also quote you from the ATV:. The introduction of the official price is a wrong, wrong method of intervention. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, You always lie, honourable Member, but we protect the Hungarian people. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Kálmán Olga: Uh-oh!]]
u2022-11-08-43	I'll give the floor to László Varju in return.
u2022-11-08-44	Thank you very much. I'd like to point out in advance that I didn't accept your answer. Not even because... and from now on, while you're giving me sentences that I didn't say, I'm saying something you just said. You said before: the price of gas has indeed decreased. Then tell me one thing, Mr Secretary: what is the reason why families do not receive this reduction in gas prices. That's what we want you to do, that's what we need to do. Secondly, in Europe, following the summer quotes you have said here, the countries of Europe have solved the fact that they have largely decoupled themselves from Russian gas, and you are hunting for the award of Péter Szijjártó only to make them as expensive as possible. This was brought to Hungary and they refuse to lower the price of gas. That is why the shadow government needed the regime's initiative... [[The president's gonna turn off the speaker's mic. Let's hear it for the DK benches.]]
u2022-11-08-45	We can move on. Thank you very much. Imre Komjáthi, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance. On behalf of the Prime Minister, the representative of the Ministry of the Interior, who is competent according to the subject, responds to the interpellation. I'll give the floor to Imre Komjathi.
u2022-11-08-46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In one year inflation rose from 5 percent to 20 percent; but when you look at food, the rise is even more brutal: it rose from 4 percent to more than 35 percent. It is obvious to everyone that the price of basic food has increased the most: the price of bread is 76.2 percent, the price of cheese is 68 percent, the price of dairy products and butter and butter cream is 66.3 percent. And there's also the government's overhead. According to KSH, the change in domestic energy in force from 1 August resulted in an increase of 62.1 percent. Within this, the price of fixed gas has increased by 121 and the electricity has increased by 28.9 percent. The price of bottled gas increased by 45 percent and the price of firewood increased by 43.8 percent. For all of this, no support will be given to Hungarian families, either during the period of economic recovery, during the Covid period or now, during the period of record inflation, the government has not increased the amount of family benefits, the amount of family allowance, the child, the maternity allowance has not changed. The increase in the minimum wage at the beginning of the year has long since been consumed by the release of prices and the rise in prices. Despite interim increases, pensions do not reach the level of 20 percent annual inflation, and the minimum pension rate for 14 years is still 28 500 forints. Meanwhile, brutal inflation and record-high, 27 percent VAT have resulted in a HUF 1600 billion more VAT revenue for the state in the first nine months of the year than a year earlier. So we'd have something to support people with. The government is trying to cover the problem by means of communication, national consultation, poster campaigns, even though neither the billboard nor the consultation will help people heat up their homes and suppress the sound of the growling stomach. The amendment of the social law suggests that the state will give up those in need for good; it will be put into law that the state will no longer guarantee anyone's social security, so everyone is responsible for it. It's the latest manifestation of social insensitiveness. So I'm asking why the government doesn't support people's livelihoods. Why does the state give up support for the poorest and not support the proposals of the MSZP? Thank you for your reply. [[Applause in the benches of MSZP.]]
u2022-11-08-47	State Secretary Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2022-11-08-48	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In times of crisis, the MSZP backs out from behind the people and does not help them, I say this not only, but this, as we talked about in a previous debate, Zsuzsa Ferge said, that in 2008, when they were on the government, Hungary was the only state to have had a crisis, which did nothing, nothing at all, did not cross a match, so that something would happen to the obvious losers of the crisis. So you didn't have any suggestions when you were on the government, and in recent years, we would have made a mistake if we had taken any of your proposals. Then there certainly wouldn't have been a million more jobs, then there certainly wouldn't have been a family-type tax relief, then there certainly wouldn't have been a CSOK, there certainly wouldn't have been a baby shower support, and there certainly wouldn't have been, say, a child-care fee. After all, those who are at home with their child will now receive 200,000 forints, because their child needs help 24 hours a day, and this child can be not only a child of 5-10 years of age, but also a child of 30-40 years if one cannot work because his child has to be nursed all day. You have not voted in favour of this, the weed, the children's home care fee, nor any other proposal we have made to say that we have raised the amount of care premiums in the budget from HUF 15 billion to HUF 65 billion. Honourable Congressman, We all see that inflation is at an unprecedented altitude almost everywhere in the world. In the euro area, since it existed, there hasn't been such high inflation. In England there has not been such an increase in prices for generations, and in America, the price increase has been at an unprecedented level for 20 years. All countries in Europe are therefore struggling with inflation, only some countries have taken more effective steps to reduce living difficulties. In this case, one of the most exposed groups is pensioners. That's why it was important that this year we were able to pay the full 13th month's pension, the 13th month's pension you took from the pensioners. We were also able to pay for an inflation pension supplement and a pension premium. We were able to preserve tax exemptions for people under the age of 25, put in a gas stop. You didn't support this, here in Parliament and outside Parliament, during the election campaign, you constantly attacked, attacked and attacked the gas stop, that it's stupid, that it's communism, that it's unsustainable, that it's not working. Compared to this, the petrol stop has been working for a year now, and Hungarians do not have to pay for petrol one and a half or two times as much as it did in other countries. Or the food price stop, which you also said was not a marketable solution, is a communist solution and so on. But the government doesn't listen to you to withdraw these pricestops, we do exactly the opposite of what you say. We are trying to expand the pricestops, precisely because we see that shopping for people is now more of a burden than it was a year ago. It is not the people's fault, and it is not anyone's fault in Hungary, but it is the sanctions policy that has pushed energy prices to the sky, and the price of food has increased, and this year's drought has also come to this. And it is also important to stop interest rates, which will make the future more predictable not only for people but also for businesses, which has been extended by the government until 30 June 2023. Honourable Congressman, If people have failed the people in need, they have been you, because they have reduced the norm of social institutions, reduced the wages of social workers by 8 percent, and they have only increased the taxes of working people, they have taken away the family tax benefits, they have taken away the housing subsidies. [[15.00]] The Hungarian Socialist Party itself has been proclaiming itself for 30 years that the party of people in need, only when they are on the government, is not helping, but making the situation of those in need worse. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-08-49	I'll return the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2022-11-08-50	Thank you very much for the floor. I cannot accept your answer, Mr. Secretary. You're free to release all the Gyurcsánys in leather binding, so no one will be able to heat your apartment, you won't be able to buy food from it. So every time you can quote me for the pre-2010 period, it's not going to help people. But you guys can help me. [[Bence Rétvári: We helped you!]] You're on the government. You're two-thirds government. By the way, if you're quoting Zsuzsa Ferge, let me quote: you're doing a pervert redistribution where the rich get more support than the needy. And I would add that you are building a system that quotes feudalism. You're the past. And in the past, a revolutionist of my utmost honor has said that I truly say to you what you do not do to the least, you will not do to me. Count me in with your conscience. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2022-11-08-51	Congressman didn't accept the answer. I would remind you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the resolution on the vote on interpellations will take place today. Dear Parliament, Miklós Hajnal, representative of Momentum, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Technology and Industry. I give you the floor.
u2022-11-08-52	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, In the current unpredictable economic situation, many Hungarian families and households are faced with the fact that the government's overhead subsidies do not apply to them, for completely meaningless and incomprehensible reasons. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Here, for example, is the three - generation family who live in four separate apartments with a separate electric clock, a separate gas boiler. They are clearly the target audience of the multigenerational family house regulation, who are entitled to a special premium on the holding of an official certificate. However, their request for this was denied, so, taking the gas and electricity consumption of the four housing units together, the system virtually excludes them from the supported groups and thus ruins the family register. Or I could also mention the mountain family who, by submitting the official certificate, were shocked to find that the preferential rent for separate parts of the apartments only applies to their gas consumption. The power consumption of the two parts of the apartment is also separate. We know the situation: two refrigerators, two washing machines, double lighting. Similarly, the current system is unfair to the retired couple who use environmentally friendly electric heating instead of gas, thus being removed from the beneficiary's budget, even though the consumption of a flat of the same size could have been included in the reduced budget. These poor people are paying the price of your bad governance, the Fidesz price. I wrote a written question to Minister Palkovics at the beginning of October, in which I presented such a case in a completely objective way, because these families are not interested in our political debate, and these families are waiting for a meaningful answer and a solution. But unfortunately, instead, we have received nothing from the secretary of state, so take a good answer, extolling the current measures of the government, but not responding to any problems. Technically, he wrote in the letter that everyone should be happy for what they have. The sad thing is, you guys know perfectly well that the regulations are full of shortcomings and errors. Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, acknowledged this in a summer government briefing, when he promised a reduced electricity quota to households that do not use gas, I mentioned such a case now, but also to solve heating and hot water with flashes. So you know exactly what the problem is and what the solution would be, compared to this last week, Minister Gulyás said that we are so capable at the moment. If these problems of the support system are not corrected by the government, then you have openly lied to these families. And the really sad thing is that they could solve these problems, but they just don't seem to want to. That is why I am asking the Secretary of State when they will keep their previous promise when they will remedy the completely obvious shortcomings in the system of subsidies. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Let's hear it for Momentum.]]
u2022-11-08-53	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. The answer is expected from Deputy Minister Zsófia Koncz, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2022-11-08-54	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The protection of Hungarian families is clearly the most important thing for this government. In Europe, we have uniquely applied the reduction of the rent since 2013, and in this very difficult situation, which resulted from the war, due to the failed sanctions in Brussels, we can support households by HUF 181 thousand per month. It's really an incredible amount. [[Bence of Turdai: It's so unbelievable it's not true!]] And if we didn't have a reduction in the rent, that would be a lot less for households. Congressman Torda, I see you want to communicate with me in parallel all day, but I thank you for listening to me. [[Eszter Vitalos: Ask for the floor.]] Thank you very much. At the EU summit in Prague at the beginning of October, Prime Minister was able to obtain an exemption from the eighth package. This means that neither gas supplies nor energy from nuclear power plants have brought our country under this package. In addition, there are a number of programmes to support families. Such is the reduced price, the firewood program, the brown coal program, the gas stop, the food stop, the interest stop. The gas stop and the food stop were extended until 31 December. This year, a total of HUF 1127 billion remained for families in the form of tax relief and income tax refunds. It is a very important issue for pensioners to help and support pensioners, and it is important to highlight that they will also receive the 13th month pension, the inflation pension supplement and the pension premium at the end of the year. It is also important that we talk about Momentum, that we have also been able to protect tax exemptions for people under the age of 25. In addition, today we have discussed the SME support programme, the factory rescue programme and the Széchenyi Card loan scheme. These are all things that we want to support the Hungarian economy in the future. Honourable Congressman, As I personally felt the lead on the issue in your question, on the Momentum, I must say that when I turn on television or listen to your fellow Members speak in the European Parliament on the Internet, I will be extremely sad. Because the fact that you practically allow yourself to speak in this way abroad about your own country, your nation, is a very, very bad direction. If I would like to quote these, I would like to mention one of the speeches made by Katalin Czech, your MEP, regarding the reduction of rent and rent. He said he'd lead out the regulated electricity and heating prices. And in March he said that in the final text of the decision, I must admit, Paks II was included in a momentary proposal. sanctions. [[Bence Rétvári: Oops! It's Momentum!]] They're proud of that. And you said in this year's election campaign that these measures cannot be maintained forever by the government. András Fekete-Győr, former President and current representative of the Momentum, said that if the Momentum were on the government, he would undertake a separation from Russian oil imports. I wanted to tell you this because we are talking about the overhead situation and how we can help Hungarian families. I think that in this situation, we need responsible decisions and communication from everyone. I would like to ask the Member to help us work together in the future. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-08-55	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. I will ask Congressman Miklós Hajnal to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2022-11-08-56	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, I can't accept the answer. If any family who now lives in a multi-generational family house, who do not now have preferential electricity at their disposal, and who did not have a discount on it before my question, if any family who looks back at it with electricity will see that they have not received a solution, they have not received an answer from you. The reason I can't accept the answer is because you've done nothing but repeat the same things you've always repeated here in Parliament, while you yourself know that these are real problems. We're talking about a family register of people you haven't found a solution to. [[15.10]] And instead, what he's doing is they're throwing up here and they're pulling out different quotes. Let me add that the market price is currently lower than what you are billing the municipalities than you are billing the people. So... [[The president's ringing the bell.]] It would be better if we paid the market price. Thank you very much. [[Bence Rétvári: Then you pay for it. Pay it voluntarily, if it's so much better. A round of applause in the dialogue.]]
u2022-11-08-57	Thank you very much, Congressman. The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will be taken today. Dear Parliament, Mr. Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Culture and Innovation:. When should we double the family allowance on a family card? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Deputy Minister Eszter Vitalyos, Secretary of State, will answer you. Congressman's got the floor, please.
u2022-11-08-58	Mr President, Dear House, We are again in a crisis period, and for the first time in the crisis caused by the corona virus, it is not certain that family support is quite well as it is, for example, because this system is not a follower of inflation, and the value of aid under subjective rights is constantly evaporated. Let's just say that I myself am not a fan of welfare benefits, I am a supporter of children, and I see that more than half of the family allowance has evaporated because of inflation since 2010, and, well, that's what the Secretary of State will say. [[Bence Rétvári:]] that yes, but there is family tax relief, and with respect to family tax relief, then all parents should try to maximize their opportunities. Well, it takes a very high salary to make maximum use of all this, but it's no longer the child's jurisdiction whether his parents succeed or not. If we are to guarantee that the child's interest will be spent, then we must at least double the family allowance in terms of the vaporisation of the value. I, on the other hand, mentioned that I am not so pro-aid, so I would not give this to you on the basis of subjective rights, not unconditionally, but through an institution called a family card, and with the family card, you could buy a variety of things, such as basic food, children's articles, the cost of housing the child, and, fourthly, also for the services necessary for the spiritual upbuilding of the child, it could be paid for, whether it is a demanding book or a theater ticket. You can see, then, that families would enjoy a great deal of freedom in how to spend this extra sum. The real question is that the government wants, is willing, is able to support families in this way, because we see that if we do not put this extra guarantee into the system that the family card means, then it is not guaranteed that these amounts will always be used in the interests of the child. If, on the other hand, you put it in there and you have a very strong guarantee, of course, the appropriate control system, so that it cannot be abused, then you can guarantee that these amounts will benefit the child's interests, benefit fully, and clearly support the child's mental upbuilding, not just physical care and care. I understand that there will be a serious debate between us in the form of family support, which is how and why it does not follow inflation, which is good and which is not good, this is a legitimate debate. Beyond that, however, I would like to ask you to support the introduction of the family card institution, because, compared to the current level, it is possible to double the support that directly reaches children by guaranteeing that the child will be built and that, if the child is built, it is expected that he will be a successful, productive, tax-paying citizen of this country, and that, in the spirit of the principle of prosperity in the homeland, we cannot wish more or more. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik and Dialogue.]]
u2022-11-08-59	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, The answer, as I mentioned, will be given by Deputy Minister Eszter Vitalyos, Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2022-11-08-60	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to thank you for allowing us to talk to each other again about the system of family support, because this is another opportunity to clarify a fundamental difference, which is equal to the difference between a caring and a caring state. We believe in the caring state, the caring state builds a future, not a fish, but a net, self-righteous, thinking in a responsible nation, family and parents capable of shaping its own destiny. We believe in work, we believe in conscious childbearing, and we want to help future generations. And we believe that parents, in addition to being responsible for their parenting, are also responsible workers. On the other hand, until 2010, your allies did nothing but enslave the Hungarian people with foreign currency loans, the IMF loan came, the aid came and tried to maintain the appearance of a living by hundreds of tricks. In 2010, we broke up with this system, a system based on so-called aid, and focused on active support for work. We have set up a family support system that, I think, is unique in Europe, and perhaps it is not exaggeration to say that it is also in the world, which builds on tax reductions and family tax reliefs instead of tax increases and aids distributed from it, while creating one million jobs. And what did the left do in the meantime, honourable Member? As usual, he organized protests against the family support system. Today, 95 percent of families with underage children are able to make use of a form of family support. The family support system is extremely diverse, and it is not only possible to take out the family allowance and to treat or refer to it in isolation from the other forms of support. There are benefits under subject-matter, and benefits from social security status are available, and there are benefits dependent on the need, and families can apply tax and contribution benefits. These ideological debates, as you have said, Congressman, I think can be carried out, although I think that your ideology has taken a completely untraceable 180-degree turn, no matter what they say one week, the next week, the opposite. But let's see what the numbers and the figures say about the difference between caring and caring state. The proportion of work-related subsidies and benefits reached 80 per cent; compared to 2010, the proportion was reversed; the share of benefits with the right to work was similar at the time. The number of births decreased by 22.5 percent under Balliberal governments by 2010 and today increased by 5.7 percent compared to 2011. Between 2010 and 2020, the Hungarian child-bearing spirit grew to the greatest extent in the European Union, and today the amount of support for families is HUF 2778 billion.If we add the personal income tax returned, it is close to HUF 3600 billion, which is more than three and a half times the amount in 2010. By the way, honourable Member, there is a review of family support in the Ministry. Despite the crisis, we continue to work to make it easier to start a family in Hungary, to raise a child than ever before. We believe in the caring state, the sanctity of the family, the power of the Hungarian people, and believe that the Hungarian future of Hungarian families [[The president's ringing the bell.]] It's written here. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-08-61	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. I will ask Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa to accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go.
u2022-11-08-62	Mr President, Dear House, Madam Secretary, I very much wanted a situation where I could accept your reply, unfortunately, does not allow me to do so. The fact is that if Parliament has a consistent role in demographic issues [[Eszter Vitalos: That's us!]] It's Jobbik and Jobbik's representatives, because we've been stressing the same thing in this area since 2010, and we see that you don't want to hear it, you can't hear it. With regard to family tax incentives, allow me to make a comment. Is it equivalent to chemical neoliberal cruelty that you always refer to it, but can a couple of educators maximize family tax incentives? [[Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi: Yes, the contributions can be recovered!]] He doesn't know. A couple of nurses, who have, say, a child, are able to achieve the same family tax benefits as a top management couple? He can't, not even with the allowance. This system is unfair, and if our aim is to change tragic demographic data, we must focus as much resources as possible on children's interests, and on the basis of the current live birth figures, if we do not do anything, Hungary will be a country of 6.5-7 million by the second half of the century. That's not what you want, is it? [[The president's ringing the bell.]] We don't want this! We need a common understanding and a consensus in Parliament behind all demographic issues. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik and Dialogue.]]
u2022-11-08-63	Thank you very much, Congressman. The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our sitting today. [[15.20]] Dear Parliament, Congressman Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. What is the government willing to accomplish from our proposals to prevent mass frost death? It's an address. Honourable Member, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State will answer you. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-11-08-64	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. There is a strong competition for which of Viktor Orbán's most distasteful sentences in the last 12 years, but we have a serious candidate that sounds like we are not going to freeze in the winter, they are going to be able to give birth as men, what their government has done. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, [[Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] It's a typical Fidesz or Orbán sentence. Both sides are lies, and a fake problem that doesn't exist, because no one in Europe has ever given birth as a man, I signal. [[Bence Rétvári: You have the right!]] He's trying to focus attention on a fake problem, instead of dealing with real problems, because there are people who are frozen to death. In Hungary, over 200 people have lost their lives in recent years because our fellow citizens are getting cold. I don't know who Viktor Orbán means by "we"; if the Hungarian people who are frozen to death don't understand the, of course, the sentence can be true, but then there is a serious problem with the role of Prime Minister. We see that according to KSH data, and there is a lot of visibility here, there were 210 cases like this last year, 233 cases last year, and ORFK also shows in recent data that there is at least 20 percent increase in their numbers, otherwise much lower numbers from one year to the next. The fact is that thousands of Hungarians were frozen to death under your government, and Fidesz ostrich policy is no use against it, even though they put their heads in the sand, even though they don't talk about it, this problem is here. So it would be good to say that, in addition to the thousands of billions per professional sport or the private jet flying of the prime minister, this is also the source, because it is not only a extreme social insensitiveness, but it is a very serious system flaw in the functioning of the state. This year's winter will also be tougher than before, and therefore, if there is no change, it will be more deadly. Now it is not only the small-timers but also the middle-class people who have problems heating up their apartments. We see the classic fidesz thing going on here again, the lie and the theft. You promised in the campaign that there would be cheap Russian gas and that there would be a reduction in the rent [[Péter Cseresnyés: There is still!]] But we can see what happened, and theft can be seen in the act that system usage charges have skyrocketed since Lőrinc Mészáros landed this money for taxpayers and account payers. So on vulnerable people, there are oligarchs near Fidesz. But let's face it, there have been good steps. For example, at the pressure of the Dialogue representative, András Jámbor, the change in the prepaid energy supply and some progress in the field of firewood also took place. But that's not enough. Therefore, the Dialogue presented a 12-point package of proposals to prevent mass frost deaths. The question is what it accepts from this, what the government is willing to achieve, especially with regard to the fact that you voted against this constructive and forward-looking, responsible package of proposals in committee. I look forward to your reply.
u2022-11-08-65	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2022-11-08-66	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, From your past years, honourable Member, it would be difficult to look for real sentences with true content. You said that there was never such a text of an EU decision on male childbirth. [[Bence of Turdai: No one gave birth as a man!]] But what Prime Minister was referring to is the so-called Matič report. I quote to you literally what the MEPs you support voted for. As in certain circumstances transgender men and non-binary persons can become pregnant, they should benefit from measures to care for pregnancy and childbirth in such cases, without discrimination on the basis of their gender identity. So much for your truth, honourable Member. In this text, by the way, the word gender appears 126 times. That is what you believe does not exist, honourable Member. It's one side of reality denial. The other, I am also bringing you a quote from Brussels because you like what your government has done for you, right, according to Eurostat, in which countries the government has managed the lowest and highest gas prices. According to Eurostat, the lowest gas prices were administered by the Hungarian, Croatian and Latvian governments to their own citizens, and the highest, according to Eurostat, was administered by the Swedish, Danish and Dutch governments to their own citizens. So much for your truth, Your Honour. But it's really heartbreaking when an improperly built II. He's worried about the homeless from a luxury fork in the mountains. [[Bence of Turdai: Come on! It's perfectly normal.]] It's just like when his party partner, Szabó Timea, illustrated with a photograph of a homeless statue in Washington, how people in Hungary get cold during the winter. There is not much credibility in these, either, honourable Member, nor was there any credibility in you when you were told that market prices should prevail, as this is also a lot for everyone. [[Bence of Turdai: It wasn't like that!]] It would have created a difficult situation, or when Gergely Christmas said that we do not ask for the alms, we demand a fair gas pricing policy from the government. And you have had the opportunity to cut the central expenditure of the Rezief Protection Fund by 150 billion in your own budget amendments, honourable Member. Not only would people be charged a penalty premium, but they would also have reduced the Rezief Protection Fund by HUF 150 billion in order to try to strengthen their own proposal, "Employment without work." [[Bence of Turda: Basic income!]] As far as homelessness is concerned, honourable Member, in recent years we have maintained capacity that has always been higher than the level of demand. Your mayor only had enough to try to put a homeless shelter in a school in Csepel, an outer district of the city, without consulting local stakeholders. On the other hand, we maintain thousands of night shelters and temporary accommodations, we can provide an additional 1569 additional spaces when needed, with 7700 additional daytime heating capacity, 199 and 456 seats in homeless rehabilitation facilities and 456 in homeless homes. This year, at the beginning of November, in the cold, utilisation was 64 percent nationwide, 61.54 percent in Budapest. We have also raised the budget lines for homeless care by 60 percent, because, honourable Member, we can ensure that every person in need has a home, a chance of survival. On the other hand, Gergely Christmas promised to open a homeless hostel at the Town Hall, and did not take the other substantive legal steps necessary to reclassify the property. When you speak, you have great words. First of all, honourable Member, tell us how many of the proposals submitted to Parliament have been implemented by Gergely Karácsony as mayor, and how many of the points of the Dialogue faction have been implemented by left-wing mayors for eviction in Budapest. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-11-08-67	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman Bence Tordai to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2022-11-08-68	Unfortunately, Mr. Secretary, you've spoken so many lies that I don't have time to rebut, just to record the most important ones. He wasted a quarter of his time trying to disprove the fact that no one in Europe had given birth as a man; and he is again stalling on substantive questions. It did not mention, however, that it is already Eurostat data that Hungary has the highest number of cold deaths across the European Union. [[Bence Rétvári: I don't think so!]] So that's what you're supposed to do. [[Bence Rétvári: Numbers!]] We're not dogging, we're not talking about anything stupid, we're throwing in rubber bones, because we're not that crazy, so I noticed... [[Sic!]] It would be good not to pretend that this is a problem for homeless people, 73 percent of which do not concern homeless people, not primarily homeless care, but the problem of the whole social care system. [[Bence Rétvári: That's why you reduced the rent, isn't it?]] The fundamental malfunction of your system is that thousands of people froze under your government. Now you said you wouldn't do anything to deal with this problem, so you're going to take responsibility, in a moral sense.
u2022-11-08-69	Thank you very much. Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with today's decision, the decision will take place today. Dear House, Member István Szabadi, representative of Mi Hazank, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior. It's an address. Honourable Member, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State will answer you. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-11-08-70	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, As a result of the government's provisions on overhead and petrol prices in the summer, social, child protection and child welfare institutions with a public mission have been removed from the community and the vehicles they operate are subject to market petrol prices. The measures were unprepared and unexpected, and the government had not previously agreed with them, there were no preparatory material, obviously in order to prevent their content from accidentally leaking out before the elections. In the meantime, the institutions were only able to ensure their functioning in a tight manner, as state aid for care policy has been low for years. [[15.30]] They have no extra resources and no reserves. According to two professional associations, the total costs of the institutions increase to 5-6 times, there are elderly homes where they will increase from HUF 28 million a year to HUF 158 million. This is an incomprehensible rise. It makes their situation even more difficult for them to be large customers in the market, so energy suppliers are willing to sign with them at daily stock exchange prices, ask for bank guarantees or other financial guarantees. This represents a total vulnerability to them, neither this year's budget nor 2023's budget cover the rising costs and fuel prices. The additional costs will simply not be managed by the institutions without State aid, which means that in the autumn the restriction of social services, dismissal of workers, interruption or even complete termination of certain benefits, and, in particular, institutional closure in the civil sector, are expected. They have said that they have never been in such a hopeless situation behind their backs for decades. There will also be insurmountable consequences if villagers, support workers or street social workers are unable to pay for market petrol prices and there will be no fuel for cars. The free services provided by them fill the infrastructure gaps in the social sphere and fear that if they do not reach those in need, the need for institutional care will increase, whether in the area of child protection or in the area of elderly care. The Hungarian Movement requires the government to assess as soon as possible the consequences of its irresponsible decision in the social sector, to consult with all its maintenance representatives at expert level and to ensure that the additional costs of the institutions are covered in order not to have to close the institutions during the heating season and neither workers nor beneficiaries are put on the street. Thank you very much. [[Novak's First Clap.]]
u2022-11-08-71	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2022-11-08-72	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Your speech also clearly shows the serious consequences of irresponsible decisions taken in Brussels on sanctions for the most deprived people in everyday life. You know, we are also conducting all kinds of negotiations with Brussels, in which they ask for impact assessments and preliminary calculations for all decisions, which, to some extent, are, of course, rational, and it is right that they are born, only when it comes to the whole of Europe, the whole life of all European Union citizens, the issue of sanctions, then there is no impact assessment, no kind of calculation. They were promises: it stopped Russia. He didn't stop. That won't be a problem in Europe. There's been a problem in Europe. This will finish the conflict quickly. He didn't finish the conflict. And yet, these sanctions were adopted, then extended, extended, extended, and are still being prepared to be extended. And in the meantime, there are people, families, and civil society organisations in Hungary who held up social institutions, and they work in the same way as last year, but they see that what they received was normative, state aid, tender revenue last year and received this year, came out of it last year somehow, and this year they didn't come out. It's not that they don't come out, they're at a huge distance from being able to pay for these energy prices. And again, the unthinkable decisions of the great conflicts ultimately cause the greatest difficulty for the most deprived people. That is why we regard this sanctions policy as terribly irresponsible, and when Klára Dobrev says this, please do not take it personally that we will not back down, we will also vote for the strictest sanctions against Russia. One minute they do this, and then there are huge price increases: Estonia's 154 percent annual price increase, Lithuania's 110 percent, Bulgaria's 108. There was a price increase everywhere, according to Eurostat, only Hungary was the exception, we had the lowest average domestic gas price, the Croatians followed us, almost double the average gas price, and the Latvians, the most expensive were Sweden, Denmark and the Netherlands. But indeed, as you said, the most needy people should help at this time, and the government will help, this year we have returned 1127 billion forints tax relief and income tax refund to families, with 13th month pension, inflationary pension supplement and pension premium to help the elderly, with a tax exemption under 25 years of age, we are trying to help the young people, with a gas stop, a food stop, and a interest rate stop. Specialized social facilities have also increased in recent years, so there will obviously also be a surplus pension account in the public sector, which will be paid to the state, a similar increase on the ecclesiastical side, and the government is also working with civil society organisations to help them. You yourself have said that there are many such organisations, and it is important to have contact with them, of course the Ministry of Interior's Secretary of State for Care has done so and will do so, so you have been continuously consulted and consulted with them in the past period. There will also be an opportunity for these organisations, civil society organisations, who maintain social institutions, to receive some kind of assistance for this transitional period or for this time when they are in a more difficult winter heating situation, as the social institutions in the public sector from the Rehabilitation Fund have received or should receive this additional assistance in the ecclesiastical sphere. But the most important thing is to remedy the outcome of all of this, because there can be extra help here and there, the sanctions that shot these energy prices into the sky, and which, unfortunately, are the biggest problem for the most vulnerable people. For those who live in good conditions in Brussels and make decisions about this, the everyday life of those who live in Brussels is not affected. People who have not been asked about these things have a fundamental influence on their lives. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-11-08-73	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congressman István Szabadi to accept the Secretary of State's reply. Here you go.
u2022-11-08-74	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I cannot accept your answer, given that, in addition to the responsibility of the individual, social security has, of course, been the joint responsibility of the State and the municipalities. In the meantime, however, you have realised that curbing the social crisis caused by limiting the cost of reducing costs would cost you billions of people, so in the order of social care, the State's responsibility was placed behind the responsibility of the municipalities, thereby putting themselves in a hopeless position by self-governments already facing serious financial problems. A month ago, I was informed that the government would take the necessary steps in good time to ensure the smooth functioning of the social task. My question is, how long will they wait to provide state aid? If the operation of an institution is impossible as a result of increased overhead or petrol prices, will it hand over the public service mission, including the employees and the range of beneficiaries to whom? Thank you very much. [[Novak's First Clap.]]
u2022-11-08-75	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our sitting today. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, representative of the LMP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Interior:. More water flows from Hungary than it arrives, exactly when and what concrete measures will the government take to resolve the water crisis, following the promises of the Minister? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, By responding to the interpellation, the Prime Minister appointed Mr István Nagy, Minister of Agriculture, who was responsible and competent according to the subject, who asked Mr Sándor Farkas, Deputy Minister for his reply. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-11-08-76	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Indeed, I will ask you a question about a national fate, the question of water management, which is undeservingly few words, and, by the way, I purposely aimed at the Ministry of the Interior, because water management is formally part of the Ministry of the Interior, but of course I thank you very much in advance if I receive substantive answers from the Secretary of State. We have come to a time of crisis and we are living in a time of crisis, and we can clearly see that we will not be able to get rid of this situation in the coming years and decades; the different challenges, the effects of climate change, environmental destruction, the energy crisis have been said a lot, but unfortunately we are not talking about the water crisis, the challenges of water are perhaps the most serious challenge. We can also say that there is already a huge problem, and we also know that if there is no fundamental change in water management, then there will be disastrous consequences. Politicians often say that Hungary is a water power, while 95 percent of our water resources are flowing water, and we know that water flows much more from the country than it does because of the water management that has failed. Three losses per year correspond to the water volume of Balaton. [[15.40]] Therefore, Hungary is currently being drained and Hungary is drying out. We can also see that circumstances are becoming more brutal and more difficult. We had to face an amazing century of drought, we saw in the summer that our lakes had dried up, our rivers had a record low water level, the creeks had dried up, farmers were in an incredibly difficult situation in the unprecedented drought. It is quite clear that action must be taken after the inaction of the past decades, and there is a fundamental need for water management, since this water crisis will not be dealt with by the end of the war, nor will it be able to solve it. No government has recognized this situation in recent decades, what challenges we are facing, even though the profession and professionals have already warned us about it, and even before the National Assembly there were documents such as Professor Ángyán's rural strategy on these issues. At present, Hungary's water management is basically focused on water management as soon as possible, which is what it aims to do, although maintaining water is the most important thing, instead of drainage water management, water management is needed, and real solutions can be sought to maintain water locally by building on the water retention capacity of the landscapes, because our landscapes have the basic ability to do so. A fundamental change of approach is needed here, and appropriate steps must also be taken in support policy and investment. It is a positive development that Minister István Nagy has recently attended the meeting of the Committee on Sustainable Development, where experts and farmers have also outlined a new model of water management with a completely new perspective, and then we have received positive feedback from the Minister. I would like to ask you what concrete steps are expected, there have been discussions between the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of the Interior, and when the fundamental change of attitude can take place in Hungary's water management, which can ensure that we stop Hungary's dehydration and in this way ensure the future of our children. Thank you very much for your reply to the Secretary of State. [[Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2022-11-08-77	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I have already said, the answer will be given by Deputy Minister Sándor Farkas, Secretary of State. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-11-08-78	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, First of all, on behalf of Minister István Nagy, we thank you for the invitation to take part in this meeting of the Committee on Sustainable Development, and indeed for sharing with you the discussions, the thoughts that concern us in the Agricultural Ministry. That you asked the Ministry of the Interior, it is understandable in today's context, but I say very quietly and very modestly to you that in the summer of this year, when the drought was knocking, but we had already felt its effect, we started a consultation in the Ministry; and then this consultation was fully extended to the Ministry of the Interior, the Water Management Boards, experts and engineers, from various representative bodies to the Agricultural Chamber, the Magos and experts of the National Earth Management Centre, who, of course, were also involved in this consultation; it is only because we need to know specifically what the needs of farmers in the first place are. Secondly, in parallel, we need to know the new, changed, I can safely say, environmental factors that have affected not only Hungary but also Europe as a whole this year, some 42 percent of European agricultural land is also a drought area. It is therefore important that a new concept, a new, perhaps, government decision on unusual water management, water retention, irrigation, should be taken, and I would like to say in advance that, in a week or two, we are expected to have final touches on the government's table, and I would definitely like to say this, which is not a simple, not a specific, not a short-term solution proposal, a long-term solution proposal. We have broken this down into three stages: immediate measures, so that once again in such a situation and in such a situation we do not stand by and watch the drought areas, should not happen. Therefore, the issue of tertiary works will first be taken into account, and the renovation, maintenance, service and provision of these works with water is an important issue. At the same stage, we would also like to achieve that: to create the source of those long-term, longer-term issues, those planning processes. Without it, there's nothing else to do, and it has to be planned. We have a lot of plans, for example, the plans of the Danube-Tisza public sandback have been made in a large part; in the same way, as we adopted the Watering Act last year or the year before, it also outlined the possibility of watering communities. So I would not say that the government has not dealt with irrigation, but we are really going to present and present a crucial, drastic government decision, which will provide the opportunity in the long term to take into account the issues of the Hungarian farming community, but also the environmental and nature conservation issues, and we will take very strictly into account because, in itself, it is not enough to serve only agricultural irrigation. The idea you have raised is to store, to keep the quantities of water you have referred to, and to replace the lower groundwater layer that has been lost from under us in the last decades, because I can safely say that it has been lost in decades. Therefore, those regulations... I do not want to criticize river regulation, but perhaps now we see the effect that the regulation of the Tisza and its tributaries has practically managed to dry out the Great Plain. I'm not saying you have to water it back because it's not a professional term, but you have to find those options. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] To restore those wetlands. So, Mr honourable Member, be assured, in a few weeks, the government programme will be ready. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-08-79	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will now ask Mr László Lóránt Keresztes to accept the State Secretary's answer. Here you go.
u2022-11-08-80	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you for your answer, Mr Secretary of State. I think we can all see what future we are facing, and we can expect longer and more severe droughts. It is clear that the rainfall will decrease and the precipitation distribution will be ever more extreme, so the challenges will increase. I dare to criticize river regulations, river regulations, by the way. Obviously, it was a viable concept at the time, but we can feel its effects now. It is quite clear that it is not a decade-old problem, but a much bigger problem, that we now face the results and effects of water management that has failed. It is clear that irrigation does not help, and I think that this will become more and more obvious to everyone; the aim is to re-fill the former floodplains, the once water-borne areas with water. This does not require gigantic investments, it requires an appropriate policy of support and a view of the type of water retention in the countryside, which, by the way, is obviously possible under the direction of the Ministry of the Interior, according to such a general government concept. Despite the fact that I'm sure we're going to have very serious professional policy debates [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I would like to take the gesture that the Minister has made to my invitation and return it, and I therefore accept the reply of the Secretary of State. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
u2022-11-08-81	Thank you very much, Congressman, you have accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance: what decisions does the Government make for the livelihood of Hungarian pensioners? It's an address. Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi has the floor. Here you go.
u2022-11-08-82	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In April this year, Fidesz-KDNP received the fourth two-thirds mandate from Hungarian voters at the parliamentary elections, which allowed the party association to form a government. This broad mandate of the Orbán government is not simply due to chance, it is backed by the persistent work and performance of millions of people. The Orbán government owes this to its rapid decision-making in the worst, most difficult times. Our past years have been shielded by a coronal virus epidemic, but the government has taken a number of measures to protect people's standard of living. After the disease situation has been reduced, our presence is complicated by the war in our neighbourhood and the failed sanctions in Brussels in response to it, the energy crisis with sanctions and penalty inflation. In this situation, a series of decisions had to be taken to protect the interests of Hungarian people and Hungarian families. Ladies and gentlemen, On the other hand, left-wing politicians are attacking these measures. They are also attacking laws that help our retired countrymen to make a living, while blindly supporting the sanctions policy that drives Europe to the brink of bankruptcy. [[15.50]] If it were up to the left, there would be no price stop for basic food and fuels. If it were up to the left, there would be no guarantee of a reduction of the Hungarian household's rent, which would exempt Hungarian households from the payment of approximately HUF 181 thousand each month. But if it were up to the left, the 13th month pension would not have been restored, which the Hungarian pensioners had already received in full this year. I find it outrageous that, following the failure of the 2002-2010 governments, the results achieved by the national government are constantly being attacked and only the headlines given to them from abroad are repeated, while these left-wing governments have taken away the 13th month pension from 2.4 million pensioners in the most difficult times. Ladies and gentlemen, The Orbán government and the Fidesz-KDNP association have proven that they can provide the usual stability and security for pensioners, but in the meantime, the left is only interested in creating chaos so that they can put their hands on the state register again, as they did in the period 2002-2010. I respectfully ask the Secretary of State what decisions the government has made to help Hungarian pensioners make a living and protect their lives. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-11-08-83	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be given by Mr András Tállai, Deputy Minister of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2022-11-08-84	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Yes, it's true, as you said, that you recalled the past. Not all governments were committed to honoring and respecting pensioners. After the 2010 elections, the Fidesz-KDNP government concluded an agreement and an alliance with pensioners, the essence of which is to maintain the real value of pensions. It must be kept, and the government will promise that, and will do everything in its power to make it happen every year. This depends on how macroeconomic indicators develop and how inflation develops. This promise was laid down by the Government or Parliament in law, the essence of which is to ensure a pension increase of at least equal to the expected inflation rate on 1 January, and then, following the inflation and economic developments during the year, based on August data, the government will decide in September or October whether to supplement pensions, so that additional pension increases must be provided by the government, because the economy and the law make this possible, or require it or not. Every year so far, the government has fulfilled this promise. Therefore, since 2010, the 13th month pension, which you mentioned, has increased the real value of pensions by 20 percent and the nominally increased the amount of pensions by about 70 percent. From 2700 billion to 4100 billion forints for macro numbers, the amount paid for pension and pension-like benefits is now 4100 billion forints. What is very good is that this year the fourth raised pension payment will be made in three days, on 11 November. On this day, pensioners and those who receive it in cash will receive more than HUF 600 billion, a little later by post, since they will receive their regular pension, now receive a 4.5 percent increase and receive an average pension premium of HUF 10,000. About 2.5 million people will receive this amount. It is a very important thing that you mentioned in your interpellation that the government was able to restore the 13th month pension that the left had taken from them before 2010. Here, before the draft, in 2022, pensioners received the full amount. The sum was HUF 370 billion in February. Every year, pensioners can always rely on the government, the government has always been able to count on, for the last 12 years, this year and the following years, to fulfill its promise to value pensioners and to preserve the real value of pensions. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-11-08-85	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi to accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2022-11-08-86	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, The answer is accepted. Our retired compatriots can count on the Orbán government, count on the Fidesz-KDNP alliance. What the Orbán government has undertaken, it has kept. What the Fidesz-KDNP association did, it did. Today pensions in Hungary are valuable. We increase the value of pensions at least by the rate of inflation each year. We paid a pension premium to the pensioners, and they got the full amount of the 13th month's pension. In addition, they are also affected by the premium. So I accept the answer. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-11-08-87	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear House, Congresswoman, as we have heard, you have accepted the Secretary of State's answer. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Member János Harghitai, representative of KDNP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Technology and Industry:. Can the Government continue to protect the Hungarian population from rising energy prices? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Deputy Minister Zsófia Koncz will answer you. Mr János Harghitai has the floor. Here you go.
u2022-11-08-88	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Deputy Minister, This house is not overheated, just like no public institution today; it is natural to save on heating at the same time, because energy prices are skyrocketing. However, I can say from the figures that I can see that Hungary is prepared for winter, that gas reservoirs have a sufficient level of saturation, so I think that this winter neither households nor the Hungarian economy will have any energy problems. I also read that according to the average income, the Hungarian government supports families by 30%, in Germany it does this by 20%, in Austria it is 6 percent. It is well-known to everyone that the Hungarian population pays the Hungarian public the usual rent to the extent of the average consumption. In absolute numbers, this is 181,000 forints/family up to the average consumption. I must recall that this was not always the case in Hungary. In 2010, at the end of the Gyurcsány government, the state of the country had to be taken for granted that the Hungarian families paid the most for electricity and gas prices in Europe compared to the Hungarian lawsuits. I also see on September 19th that MVM issued 2.4 million gas bills, and these are four fifths, thank God, below average consumption. I am also familiar with Eurostat's data showing how the EU statistical office has increased, how dynamic energy prices have increased in the various countries of the European Union. Hungary is a fresh exception when the country was able to stop this increase, and we did not have this increase at the retail level. Some figures: In Estonia, the price of gas is 154 percent, in Lithuania plus 110 percent, in Bulgaria also 108 percent. The government had the power to put a gas stop, a food stop, a interest stop, and now it's set up a factory rescue program. And of course, when we do things like that, and we do it right, they cost the budget money. Unfortunately, today we have to assume that, as far as we didn't think, the war is going on, there is no positive change in sanctions policy at the level of the European Union, so the sanctions madness is still rampant. [[16.00]] Therefore, unfortunately, we have to prepare for the fact that the regulatory base will not only be needed temporarily in the Hungarian budget, it can become permanent. The price of energy sources has now decreased at European level, but this is likely to change again. That is why I am asking the Secretary of State, the Government has seen the opportunity to continue to protect Hungarian families from drastically rising energy prices in the future. Thank you for your answer. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-08-89	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Deputy Minister Zsófia Koncz, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2022-11-08-90	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As a seven-time elected Member of Baranya County, you know exactly what a burden it was for Hungarian families to pay the highest energy prices compared to their salary at the end of the left-wing government in 2010. We started from here, and since 2013 we have consistently continued the policy of reducing the rent; we do this in a virtually unique way within Europe, and we can support Hungarian families, Hungarian households, by virtually HUF 181 thousand per month. This, I think, is a serious achievement, although these sanctions, which you have been talking about, have raised the energy prices incredibly, and the government continues to maintain the cost reduction, so the Hungarian people will still not have to pay a world market price for energy. This is also true above average consumption, as Hungarian consumers pay a discount price there too. I would also like to mention some examples. As I said, Hungarian families are still the most protected from the rise in energy prices in Europe, according to EU data in September, residential natural gas is the cheapest in Hungary in the European Union. In Bratislava the Hungarian gas price doubles, in Paris and London it pays 4 times, in Rome and in Brussels 6 times, in Vienna it pays 11 times, in Amsterdam it pays 17 times the population for gas. The price of electricity is the second cheapest for Hungarian families. In Bratislava, they pay double, in Paris, Madrid 3 times, in London 4 times, in Prague 5 times, in Rome, Berlin, in Brussels 6 times, in Amsterdam 7 times, for electricity. I think these numbers speak for themselves. Member since 1998 he has also been a member of the Parliament's Committee on Budgets, so he knows exactly what this reduction means for Hungarian families. You will also remember that before 2010, the 13th month's salary of doctors and nurses was taken by the left, the 13th month's pension and the tuition. Compared to this, the government is very much in favour of families, as we have already talked about, with the reduced cost of electricity, as well as the firewood program, the brown coal program, the petrol stop, the food price stop and the interest stop. You have also drawn attention to Eurostat data, and I think this is a very important result. Obviously, in order to ensure these to Hungarian families, Hungarian interests must be protected and done in all circumstances. The government has been on the side of peace since the beginning, since the outbreak of the war, and in the event that the European Union decides to impose sanctions, the prices of gas and oil and inflation would be significantly reduced the next day. Of course, the government is doing everything it can to help families, pensioners, in the current economic situation. In this context, pensioners will receive the 13th month pension next year, we will hold the inflation-following pension increase, and there will also be a pension premium. As Prime Minister said in Parliament last week, all additional revenue will go to the Rezségvédelmi Fund in order to ensure this HUF 181 thousand monthly in the future. The government, of course, remains committed to maintaining the reduction of the rent, and in this we count on the support of the KDNP faction. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-08-91	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. I will now ask Mr János Harghitai to accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-11-08-92	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I accept, not just because you're very prepared for me, but I'm quite surprised. [[Defiance.]] But as for the more substantial part of what he has to say: the Hungarian Government and we are all interested in peace. It is a small detour that today's U.S. interim elections could possibly bring a more peaceful world to the whole world in the near future. As long as this is not the case, we obviously have to expect higher prices as a result of war and misguided sanctions. This means that next year's budget must also strengthen the regulatory base. The words of the Secretary of State also give me a government guarantee, and I therefore accept your reply with thanks.
u2022-11-08-93	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the interpellations. The 2011 CXII on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information in order to reach agreement with the European Commission follows up. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Government referral T/1616. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mrs Elias Boglarka, rapporteur of the committee. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-11-08-94	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 3 November 2022, the Legislative Committee discussed CXII of 2011 on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information in order to reach agreement with the European Commission. T/1616. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 27 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The bill before us is CXII of 2011 on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information in order to reach agreement with the European Commission. It amends Act No 1. The aim of the proposal is to adopt measures aimed at ensuring the effective functioning of freedom of information, thereby increasing transparency and, in this context, citizens' confidence in the functioning of public bodies at both central and local levels. The bill establishes a central information public data register, which makes available to anyone specific management data of budgetary bodies and local and national authorities. In addition, it includes amendments to speed up the conduct of lawsuits in connection with a demand for public information. The Legislative Committee has adopted a proposal for an amendment, which includes linguistic and legal clarifications and amendments. Among these, I would like to highlight Amendment 6, which makes it clear, on the one hand, that the interface of the Central Information Public Data Register is subject to the same accessibility requirements as those laid down in Article 33 of the Information Act. § (1) applies and also indicates the need to ensure the machine readability of the data on the interface in order to ensure full access. The amendment will increase the retention period from five to ten years, thus helping to ensure that the public is informed accurately and historically. Furthermore, the 11th Amending Point specifies that the body designated by the Government shall establish the interface in accordance with an agreement with the European Commission by 31 December 2022 at the latest and publish the data sheet used for uploading. This will require adequate preparation time for the body designated by the government. Dear House, On the basis of what has been said and in order to reach a successful agreement with the European Commission, I urge you to vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[16.10]]
u2022-11-08-95	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I will now ask Mr Répássy Róbert, Secretary of State, if you would like to speak. [[For signal:]] Before I give the floor, I would like to inform the Secretary of State that together he has a 15-minute time frame for speaking in the debate and saying the closing word. Here you are, Secretary of State, Deputy Minister, you have the floor.
u2022-11-08-96	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Allow me to respond to the comments and criticisms made in the general debate for the first time, as I have promised. Mr László Sebian-Petrovszki, in the general debate on the public data register, objected to the fact that data would be registered on the websites, which he considers to be hidden, but which, in his view, makes the website Kozadattar.hu pointless. I would like to point out, to Mr President, that the new interface is precisely promoting transparency, as, in addition to the disclosure obligation, additional types of data will have to be uploaded, for example, by purchasing data, the proportion of EU and domestic resources, and will be provided by the portal in a form which, in general, data controllers, such as smaller municipalities, authorities, would not be able to fulfil on their own, such as machine readability, comparability and group downloadability. This is a significant step forward compared to the current regime. I also note that the public data base, a public data portal, performs completely different functions, because there it is not the publication obligations to be fulfilled, but the public data requests uploaded or already made by that body can be made available. In addition, Mr President, he objected to the fact that there would be some of the debtors who would not be subject to the new type of publication, but who would otherwise be affected by the general disclosure under the info law. With regard to its point of view, I would like to point out that the scope of those obliged to be published on the surface has been established in accordance with the expectations of the European Commission, and it seems sufficient for the time being, because it will cover almost the whole of the bodies performing the public task within the two major subsystems, the central and the municipal sub-schemes. In the general debate, Mr Róbert Dudás welcomed the proposal, but in his view, the real progress would have been if the claimant had not been given the only option if he had not been given the required data, but, for example, a sanction system had been introduced. I would like to point out to Mr President that, contrary to his statement, the claimant still has two remedies at his disposal: on the one hand, the judicial procedure and, on the other hand, the procedure for examining the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information. Both procedures are free of charge and free of charge, so it is not true that only a judicial route would be available. Furthermore, during the general debate, the Member complained that, in the case of public data registers, it is important that the register is independent in terms of uploading, as it will be a reflection of opposition and pro-government self-governments. I would like to point out that the proposal applies to all municipalities, that the data controllers will be responsible for the credibility, reality and up-to-date of uploaded data, as is the case at present. In case of lack or inaccuracies, the NAIH will be able to initiate proceedings against them. During the general debate, István Apáti, from the Group of Our Hungary, also found the rules contained in the proposal to be remarkable, but he believes that, by regulating the implementing rules in a regulation, the government will be able to arbitraryly prevent the publication of data. I would like to point out the following, in spite of the Member's concerns. The government can only regulate the surface operator and the technical requirements for the surface at the regulation level, everything else will come from the law. The body designated by the government will not be responsible for the published data, and will only ensure that they are available in the requested form and that the specific operations, such as downloading, cross-checking, extraction, function properly on the portal, facilitating the work of journalists, satisfying the interest of citizens following public affairs. In his speech, the Member asked the Government to respond to what operating and operating rules we want to impose on the electronic interface and what legal consequences it would have if something did not happen as laid down in the rules. I would like to indicate that the requirements are given on the basis of the draft, ensuring implementation, be it the responsibility of any body that falls within the scope of the law, the data controllers against whom the procedure of NAIH can be initiated, in accordance with the information law currently in force 52. §8 of the Act. I quote:,, 52. § ( 1) By notifying the Authority, anyone may initiate an investigation on the grounds that there has been or is a direct threat to the processing of personal data or the exercise of public data or the right to access public information in the public interest. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, NAIH may issue a report requesting the data controller to remedy the omission and may even refer the data subject to a court; the rules in force are, therefore, in the government's view, sufficient. Following the presentation of these answers, allow me to briefly explain our position on the legislative committee's proposed amendments. The amending proposal amends the proposal at a number of points that strengthen the public's position, including, in the context of speeding up the proceedings, the submission of a written defence will be made easier, since it will be sufficient to send it to the court and send it to the applicant for information by electronic mail. The proposal allows the suspension of proceedings even if the court wishes to refer the case to the Constitutional Court or to the European Court of Justice. The proposal will allow the parties, on a proposal from the OBH, the Curia and the NAIH, to make changes to the claim and the defence, since the practice shows that it is justified to maintain this option. The amendment proposal also extends to a large extent the technical rules on the interface, extraction and group downloading. According to the amendments, the proportion of EU and Hungarian resources would be published on the surface and, in the case of purchases below the national threshold, the EU funding for this procurement would also have to be published. To sum up, we can say that both the proposal submitted and the intention to amend are aimed at increasing the public and speeding up public data litigation, so I would ask you to support the proposal with your vote in the final vote, regardless of your party standing. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-11-08-97	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform you, Mr. Secretary of State and the House that you have 7 minutes and 22 seconds left to say the closing word. Dear House, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. The speeches will now take place according to the timeframes that have now appeared on the billboard. I would also like to inform the House that there is no possibility of two-minute speeches in accordance with the regulations of the House. And now for the speech of the Members who have made themselves known. I give the floor to Mr László Sebian-Petrovski, from the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-11-08-98	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, During the general debate, many arguments and counter-arguments were made in this case. Now, Mr Secretary of State has also highlighted some of these. What I'm going to do is sum up the problems, the problems with this bill. I would like to point out that this bill already states in its title that it is not about the government wanting to solve a situation that is not working well, a problem, and that it wants to address the problems that it is itself causing with the way the state offices and authorities operate, but has presented this bill simply because it wants the money to come back from Brussels. [[16.20]] It's part of that package. In this regard, you know my party's position, I have said several times myself, and DK is of the opinion that all this is happening here within the walls of this House so that the money in Brussels arrives as soon as possible, which you will steal exactly as it has been stolen in the last 12 years. Exactly the same! This is, therefore, the political framework of this bill that we are talking about here, and you also declare this in the title of the bill. And if we look at the specific case, the specific professional proposal, I have made a note, Mr Secretary of State, who was kind enough to present this question in the general debate, his words from the minutes, what he said when he introduced this bill. The Government of Hungary pays particular attention to ensuring and enforcing freedom of information. And then he went on to say: "The function of freedom of information is to guarantee the democratic functioning of the state and the transparency of public affairs through the availability of data of general interest. It's all very nice. If this is the way this country works, we could live in a great country, but it's polish, nothing more. There is no thank-you relationship between these sentences, honourable Secretary of State, and between the proposal that is here before us and which we will vote on within minutes. I'll tell you why I think that. There are two branches of this proposal, as you mentioned. One is how, by what means, lawsuits to learn public interest data can be speeded up, and a public database, in which a lot of data will be there, and citizens and interested parties can read it. There's a very serious problem with both branches. I'll give you a list. On the first point, as I said in the general debate, the government is sitting on the horse backwards. We should not spend energy on speeding up lawsuits, we should not discuss here how lawsuits will be faster, but on how lawsuits will not be brought, how the Hungarian government, the government, the relevant authorities, offices and all kinds of backup bodies could operate in such a way that lawsuits would not take place at all. That is what I spoke about in the general debate. We are sitting on this horse completely backwards, Mr. Secretary of State, and you are sitting on it. It's not that! That wouldn't be the solution to a problem of what tricks you can use to get into the system in any way by speeding up lawsuits. There's no need for lawsuits. If you had put in this proposal, Mr Secretary of State, that any data, any money spent on citizens' taxes, any service, event, contract, anything that comes out of such money would be public data, then there would be no need for litigation. However, we would solve this problem even if the government you run and all its authorities, offices and subordinate bodies would answer the data-claiming questions that they are facing and issue the requested data, but that is not what is happening, Mr Secretary of State. That's not what's happening! What happens instead? Instead, they prevent the release of data in every way. They shall take advantage of the time limit available. When Covid made it possible to set such cases twice for 45 days, it was always claimed twice for 45 days, and the answer always came on the last day, even if they knew that the answer was that the data-claiming citizen had gone to the wrong place. They did not transfer cases to the competent body, they did not specify where the data provider would otherwise be, where to turn, and if the citizen had turned to the right place, then they often referred to business secrets, classified things as pre-decision material, perhaps encrypted, as it is, but in any case in most cases had to be sued in order for the citizen to receive these data. And if the lawsuit was successful from the point of view of the data seeker, then it may not have received it and received it the way the court otherwise judged. There have been countless cases. Just to allow me to say this from the history of DK, and only from the last period, we requested the settlement, organizational spending and related contracts and invoices of the events of 20 August last year in a public interest request for data. The company that organized this, the company that you're in charge of, didn't want to publish it, had to go to trial. We won the lawsuit in the first instance, the company didn't rent it, he took it to second base, we won that. Now that's not enough for the company, he took it to Mania, and we're waiting for the Curia's decision. You see, in a case where citizens' money was spent on an event, and we demand the bills and contracts of it. This is also a school example of how you deal with this type of claim, and then you come here with a proposal on how to speed up lawsuits. This was also the case with masks and vaccines purchased at Covid's time, where various state offices and authorities were tossed back and forth in data requests. It is only a foam on the cake that they have no idea how enforcement could be more smooth, because at present it is not resolved that if the data seeker wins a lawsuit and has to publish the data, then the issue of how enforcement in Hungarian can be forced out, perhaps having some responsibility for the public official who, knowing that it is necessary to publish those data legally, did not issue it and lose the lawsuit anyway, and then has to issue it, but with a great delay in time. This is one of the branches of this bill, with these serious problems. The other is the problem of the public data base. I understand that Mr Secretary of State has tried to respond to the criticism I have given in the general debate, but he has failed because he has said two things. One is that it has been examined that the range of people to whom the public data base will apply and the circle of those to whom the info law applies are not exactly the same circle. As I understand it, Mr Secretary of State, it is, in fact, and it will remain so, only you think that is not a problem. Well, I think it's a problem, I think. This will in any way cause confusion. And the other thing he said is that I should not worry about a new data repository being created and about the relationship with that public data base, Kozadattar.hu, let them go to the website now, so that the more than 3,000 institutions that are now transferring data into this public data base will post the data, there are more than 200,000 data sets here, otherwise there is no problem with the parallelity of these two, because there will be some other data in the new database that is being created. But what logic is that, my dear Secretary of State, is that you admit that there is something, but you are not expanding it, you are not changing it, you are not adding another column, or two or five or ten, because of additional data, but you are making a new one? Oh, well, maybe we'll read in weeks, which of the Oligarchs related to Fidesz's IT company will get the development for billions of forints? [[Eszter Vítalos: How malicious this man is!]] Of course, I understand that this is how it works, but it just doesn't work! That's my problem, by the way. And let us not mention that if you go up to this public data base, you will see that you can read the data in bulk, without any significant search, and that they will not help you access the data in any way, rather cause chaos and confusion in this matter. To sum up, therefore, as much as the Secretary of State has argued in favour of the proposals made in the various debates or in contrast to opposition remarks, DK comments, the fact is that this proposal has not improved compared to the general debate, nor has it improved with the amendments, nor has it fulfilled the original role that you have falsely declared. I can therefore say that DK's position has not changed, and that we will not support this law under any circumstances. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2022-11-08-99	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary of State if you'd like to make a closing statement for seven minutes and 22 seconds. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2022-11-08-100	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I will start by saying, with what I have just said, that both the bill and the amendment tabled by the Committee on Legislative Affairs make the freedom of information wider. So the government is convinced that the bill, contrary to what has just been said here, would not limit access to data of general interest, but expand these opportunities. Of course, this is a matter of interpretation. [[16.30]] I would like to draw the attention of Mr Sebian-Petrovsk, however, to the fact that the European Commission would certainly not have asked for these amendments if it were, as you say, that they would limit the knowledge of data of general interest. It is likely that the Commission also accepted the Government's argument because it saw these proposals as being such as to increase the knowledge of data of general interest. So how do we avoid court cases, avoid court proceedings, how do I say that? It can be set as a goal, but it is still necessary to provide for the right to refer to the court, the judicial procedure, and if the data seekers already turn to the court, this proposal will speed up these procedures. So I would also ask you, Congressman, to consider that, with this bill, a court case will go faster, and the court will decide sooner whether it is data of public interest, whether it should be published or not. So I'm asking you to help those who need data in the public interest by voting in favour of the bill. Yeah, if you don't want to vote for political reasons because you don't want to help Hungary reach an agreement with the European Commission and get the EU money, then I understand your position. [[László Sebian-Petrovski intervenes.]] I understand if you are of the opinion that we should not receive EU funds. He also said in his speech that he did not really want Hungary to receive these funds. Excuse me, but for the sake of my country, I cannot agree. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-08-101	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on our sitting today. Since our next point, which can take place at the earliest from 17 o'clock, is to take a break until 17 o'clock. Thank you very much. (Sunning: 16.32-17.02) President: Dr. János Latorcai Note: Dr. Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Szűcs)
u2022-11-08-102	Ladies and gentlemen, Please take your seats, because we are now continuing our work with the agenda decisions. Please also check that your card has been placed in the voting machine. The 2011 CXII on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information in order to reach agreement with the European Commission follows up. T/1616. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/1616/7; and T/1616/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the Act, the Group of the LMP proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Mr László Keresztes, Mr Lóránt. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The LMP Group proposed that Amendment 2 be maintained. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Mr László Keresztes, Mr Lóránt. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 42 votes in favour, 113 votes against and 3 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/1616/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 134 votes in favour, 14 votes against and 12 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1616/10. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 128 votes in favour, 23 votes against [footnoteRef:1], with 12 abstentions. [ 1: Ander Balázs, Bencze János, Dr. Brenner Koloman, Róbert Dudás, Dr. László György Lukács, Zoltán Sas, Ferenc Varga, Dániel Z. Kárpát [[Better.]] He wished to vote in favour. ] Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! In line with our agreed agenda, decisions are now being taken to accept the responses to the interpellations that have been made today. Representative László Varju, representative of DK, I/1808. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 116 votes in favour, 46 votes against and one abstention. Congressman Imre Komjathi, representative of the MSZP, I/1853. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 115 votes in favour, 47 votes against and one abstention. Congressman Miklós Dawn, representative of Momentum, I/1823. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 114 votes in favour, 46 votes against and one abstention. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, I/1607. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 115 votes in favour, 47 votes against and one abstention. Congressman Bence Tordai, representative of the Dialogue, I/1822. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 115 votes in favour, 46 votes against and one abstention. Representative István Szabadi, representative of Mi Hazan, representative of I/1595. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 115 votes in favour, 30 votes against and 3 abstentions. Dear House, We've reached the end of the decisions. We're taking a two-minute technical break. (Sunning: 17.08-17.12) President: István Jakab Note: Dr. Winner Vinnai and Sándor Szabó)
u2022-11-08-103	Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats. Thank you for your understanding, especially for your cooperation. Dear Parliament, We will continue our work by discussing immediate questions. Lot. Erzsébet Németh, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: "What do you think this is all about? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2022-11-08-104	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Minister, [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] If there is Russian gas, then there is cheap supply for Hungarian families and there is a reduction in overhead. Orbán said on 12 February, and here on 16 May he said before us: "I am committed to protecting the reduction of the rent as well. Well, there's no Russian gas, even though we've become... [[It's constant noise.]] You're gonna count, Mr. President, for a few seconds, until...
u2022-11-08-105	Be kind, go on, Congresswoman...
u2022-11-08-106	... myfidesz fellow Members...
u2022-11-08-107	... I asked my fellow Members to stop now.
u2022-11-08-108	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, I was saying, either there's no Russian gas, even though we've become Putin's last henchman, or the Prime Minister's word is not a gentleman's word, but there's no cheap care for families. However, our schoolchildren were worse off than families. At a school in Borsod County, there was 17 degrees in the classroom and in the locker room 15 and 16 degrees, and there was no heating until Sunday at a school in the capital district, the children sat in blankets and coats in the classroom, and further they would ask for parental consent to heat at the school. Minister, I am talking about Budapest in this case. [[Bence Rétvári: Gergely Christmas!]] Another school in Budapest holds 35-minute classes, the study room closes at 3:00 p.m. instead of 4:00 p.m. In the model city of Fidesz and in Debrecen, eight schools will be combined under joint supervision with joint teaching and, after more than thirty years, the morning and afternoon schedules will be re-introduced. They plan to do the same in Győr and Veszprém. Schools and district schools used as such can forget swimming lessons for a long time. There is one exception, the city of Esztergom, where the city bath is closed because it is loss-making, but the spa is further financed by the municipality. What a surprise, besides the adventure bath, the hotels of MOL's CEO Zsolt Hernádi are located, and the mayor of the city is called Ádám Hernádi. Mr. Secretary. The children are really important to you only as long as your mother gives birth to them, and it doesn't matter what happens to them anymore. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-11-08-109	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister.
u2022-11-08-110	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Although it was not entirely clear which of the many problems that the congresswoman was looking for; if it concerns the value of children and human life, it is, in our view, inviolable and absolute value. Furthermore, I can say that the genetics of the Democratic Coalition comes from lies, so we should not be surprised at the fact that the Member is making statements here for a long time that are false, offensive and otherwise unfounded. [[Gergely Harvesto: It's cold in schools!]] Not to mention that most of these are not in the government's jurisdiction; and which baths are kept open or closed by a municipality should be asked by the municipality. I do not think that, by the way, well-founded calculations would prevent such decisions in any municipality, even in left-wing municipalities. There are two reasons for the current situation: one is Russian aggression against Ukraine and the other is sanctions imposed by the European Union. [[Gergely Arató: Viktor Orbán voted in favour!]] If we had been able to save both, we would have been best off, but if the sanctions were not introduced by the European Union in terms of energy alone, we would not be in a position today to maintain the reduction in the budget in accordance with our previous promise. It is certainly possible to do so today until the average consumption, but Hungary is also the country in Europe that provides the largest possible support for the payment of bills. Countries richer than us can't give this kind of support. I therefore believe that the government's decisions in this direction deserve much more recognition, especially since you have been so kind as to mention MOL, that we are collecting most of this from MOL as an extra-profit tax, and we are taking it from the banks. So in that sense, if a bath stays open in exchange, I think we're still doing well. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-08-111	I thank the Minister for his reply. I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return. Here you go.
u2022-11-08-112	The Minister said I raised a lot of problems. Well, there are so many problems in Hungary today! And what's scary to me is that if you think that, for example, schools, the heating of schools, or, let's say, the only municipalities that have been systematically bled out over the past 12 years are those who are responsible for the city's schools. Do not blame sanctions for the fact that the gas is the most expensive in Hungary, and because of the very low average consumption you have pulled, the very, very good part of Hungarian families will have to pay seven times the gas price, and the electricity will be paid twice the price. I believe that there is a person in Hungary who voted for the sanctions, called Viktor Orbán. You also said that you should ask the municipalities. You can't ask the local authorities. I think that you often refer to the fact that the municipalities are part of public finances, then it is time to support them in some form, so that they have a way of heating our schools, and let's say that the schools can be opened. Thank you. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-11-08-113	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. You have the floor, Minister.
u2022-11-08-114	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As far as schooling is concerned, the government is providing more than HUF 3 billion in support this year to allow the schools to open. Undoubtedly, we cannot keep all of them open, but at least one swimming pool per region will remain open, and the state will provide significant support for this. After giving this with taxpayers' money, it is clear that we need to consider how much we spend, but we guarantee that there will be an educational facility available everywhere, where swimming and sport opportunities are also available during the winter months. As regards sanctions, I would like to point out that Hungary has been exempted from the oil penalty. [[Gergely Harvesto: Then why is gas expensive?!]] This is due to the fact that Hungary continues to be able to... Even if the congressman yells that it's gas from the oil sanctions, unfortunately, it's still the introduction of... [[Gergely Arató: There is no sanction for gas, maybe that's why!]] Unfortunately, the energy sanctions introduced had an impact on prices. The fact that Hungary has been granted an exemption is due to the fact that we have gas supplies. And as far as Putin friendship is concerned, I find it a little comical that this is what the Democratic Coalition is doing. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] He's making it up. Orbán was not in the private residence of the Russian President, but was in the private residence of Ferenc Gyurcsány, where he fondled Ferenc Gyurcsány's dog enthusiastically, and they met even after Ferenc Gyurcsány was no longer Prime Minister. You don't have to worry about this kind of friendship, we don't have it with the Russians, and we won't have it. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[17.20]]
u2022-11-08-115	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, István Hiller, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the mini product responsible for culture and innovation:. What about our cultural institutions? It's an address. Minister Zsófia Koncz gave the right to reply... [[Eszter Vítalos: I will be.]] Excuse me, please understand, I'm going according to the script. Mr Bence Rétvári Deputy Minister [[Bence Rétvári points to Vitalos Eszter.]] Eszter Vályos granted the right to a secretary of state. With all due respect, my script was quite different, so I'm asking for your understanding, Madam Secretary. So, what about our cultural institutions? I give the floor to the congressman. Here you go.
u2022-11-08-116	That is the case, Mr President, very good example. Thank you very much. Mr President, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! Dear Secretary of State, I would like to talk about Hungarian culture and ask you, exactly, about the institutional system of Hungarian culture. In recent weeks, there has been almost no day when there has been no announcement that a cultural institution in our settlement, smaller or larger city, would not be closed for a shorter or longer period of time. It's easy to lock it, it'll be hard to open it again. What I would like to know, Madam Secretary of State, is that, since Minister János Csák made a remarkable statement last week, how should I view this and how should we view it. The Minister said that cultural institutions in distress can count on the state's support under appropriate conditions. Therefore, I would kindly ask you to answer the following questions, detailing this ministerial remarkable answer. What I want to know, Madam Secretary, is how many cultural institutions, as far as you know, have been closed in Hungary as a result of the crisis. I would like to know what kind of help public education institutions can expect. How much money they want to spend in the adopted budget for 2023, as the country has an approved budget for 2023 to help cultural institutions. I would also like to know what will happen to workers who work in institutions that are now closed for a shorter or longer period of time. Thank you very much for your reply. [[Applause on the opposition side.]]
u2022-11-08-117	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Eszter Vitalyos. Here you are, Madam Secretary, and I ask for your understanding again.
u2022-11-08-118	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, There's a war going on next door. There's an energy crisis coming up. There's a war inflation. I think that the Hungarian Socialist Party obviously knows about this. Not only here in Hungary, but, it can be said, that there is a very difficult situation for municipalities everywhere in Europe, the whole society itself is in fact, and this does not, of course, avoid cultural institutions. Nevertheless, since 2010, the Hungarian government has been doing everything in its power to treat the area of culture as a priority strategic sector. As long as you can say that you have spent only a minimal amount of resources on the field of culture, cultural development before 2010, we support culture by 1.3 percent of GDP. Recently, you said in a debate that cultural institutions are essential to a settlement's sense of identity. Well, in that, I think we're in agreement. We also believe that they are essential, and we will therefore do everything in our power to support these institutions, whether they are a small settlement or institutions maintained by a city with county rights. It should be noted that Hungary is currently a world champion in how many institutions the government supports. Nowhere in the world is this huge, for example, there is no stone theatre or symphony or any cultural institution. But once again, in smaller settlements, it is obvious that a plan of action should be made to see how they can reduce energy consumption. The same applies to larger cities, by the way, and I would like to explain this further in the rejoinder. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-11-08-119	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2022-11-08-120	On one occasion, I would be happy to discuss the situation before 2010 with you. [[Eszter Vitalos: Me, too.]] That's not the question. The truth is that Hungarian culture was freer and more functioning than under your government. [[Eszter Vitalos: This is a matter of opinion.]] That's right. The other thing is, he didn't say one thing in particular, nothing. He said generalities about war; it's a terrible thing. The thing is, they couldn't solve it during the Covid crisis; there hasn't been a war yet. And unlike other countries within and outside the European Union, which have given significant help to their own cultural institution, you first promised and then raised questions. Their former Secretary of State, your predecessor, urged for the creation of a cultural package. Covid's gone, it's nothing but war; and in Churchill's words, if we don't do this, then what's the point? So, please, give me some specifics, preferably about the present and the months to come. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the opposition side.]]
u2022-11-08-121	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Eszter Vitalyos, who will be rejoined. Here you go.
u2022-11-08-122	Honourable Congressman, As I told you in my previous reply, the government decided not only to start saving on its own, but also to require the same savings to be made by public bodies and companies that belong to individual ministries; this was also the case in the case of cultural institutions. Minister Csák pointed out in this interview, as you mentioned, that the institution that can meet the 25 per cent energy saving target would also want to guarantee the additional costs resulting from price increases. The state will resolve this, I think, and this is a very good offer for these institutions. We will do everything in our power to ensure that the institutions we belong to suffer the least damage and disadvantages from this situation, which, unfortunately, has emerged in Europe. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-11-08-123	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, Dávid Bedő, Ferenc Gelencsér, Szabolcs Szabó and Márton Tompos, representatives of the Momentum, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question. It's an address. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the Head of the Momentum Group said in advance in writing that he would like to ask for a reply in person, so Prime Minister will have to answer in his absence at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Márton Kristóf Tompos, representative of the Momentum, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: "What are you doing, Minister? It's an address. Due to Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári granted the right to reply. I would like to ask Congressman to accept the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Yes, the floor is yours.
u2022-11-08-124	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, Dear Secretary of State, According to a number of articles, videos and a study, the police of two Chinese provinces operate offices in Hungary, which many people say is that, although this is only a government window, of course, not answering the question of why these functions are not in the consulate, but now let's put this aside. However, it is difficult to put aside what the Chinese state is doing within its own borders, what kind of observer state is being built, how they force their own citizens home with blackmail and threats, and how it becomes clear that there are two offices maintained by Chinese rape organisations in Hungary as well. But we can look a little further. Our own allies, the country's allies, the EU and NATO allies: Spain, Ireland, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, the United States, Canada, there are scandals everywhere, there have been prosecutions everywhere. [[17 .30]] The question is what the Hungarian government will do then. I turned to you, and you said: "The Ministry of Interior has no knowledge of the Chinese police presence in Budapest. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Well, what can I say? Worrying answer. Especially with regard to the fact that you constantly refer to the sovereignty of the country and say that no one dares interfere in Hungarian domestic affairs. Compared to this, when the Chinese police are here, you're gonna spread your hands that we didn't know about this. Oops! [[Bence Rétvári: That's right. Oops!]] Mr. Secretary. In light of all this, in the light of all the news, I ask you now that you are aware of this situation, and if so, what you will do. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause in the benches of Momentum.]]
u2022-11-08-125	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2022-11-08-126	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I can only tell you briefly, as you have already read, that the Hungarian police have no knowledge that Chinese police are serving in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-11-08-127	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. The congressman has a rejoinder. Here you go.
u2022-11-08-128	I understand you don't know this, but let me ask you, why do you have a liaison officer named Wang Deqing? Chinese-Hungarian liaison officer. With a five-minute search of the entire Chinese media, you can find that he works for you, a Chinese-Hungarian police liaison officer in the Ministry of Interior. And you say you don't know about the Chinese police presence in Hungary? ! Well, don't make us look like idiots, I beg you. At least admit that there are, that's what we do, that's what we do, that's what we do, that's what we do, that's what we do. All right, you didn't know that until now. I'll take it. Okay. But now you may know, so I ask you again, Secretary of State, what are you going to do about it? Are they taking action against Chinese actions that violate Hungary's sovereignty? What are you doing? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2022-11-08-129	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The Deputy Minister shall be rejoined. Here you go.
u2022-11-08-130	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Neither the Home Office nor the Home Office are connected to a gentleman named Wang Deqing, or any organization you're referring to. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-11-08-131	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Brenner Koloman, László György Lukács, Dániel Z. Kárpát, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What do you think of this, Prime Minister? It's an address. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the leader of the Jobbik faction said in advance that he would ask for a personal reply, so that, due to his absence, Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, [[For signal:]] One second, please, because the Betterman is coming. Dear Parliament, Róbert Hondas, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the minister's president an immediate question: "There is a solution, you have to want it! It's an address. Due to the absence of Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, has given him the right to reply. In view of the fact that Jobbik's group leader said in advance that the questioning representative accepted the alternate responder, the Member should be entitled to ask the question immediately. Here you go.
u2022-11-08-132	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, Last week, I asked the Prime Minister, and the answer to my question was that mails should be reorganized because they are not economical, and the reason why Szerencségy Zrt. cannot help him is because the amount that comes in from there is necessary to the last penny in the budget, because the budget is deficit. That's what you said, Prime Minister, and that was the point of your answer. Well, I'd like to make something clear. The deficit in the central budget was not caused by the Hungarian Post and, above all, by the Hungarian people. In the last week, all the affected settlements have moved: NGOs, city leaders, pro-government leaders, opposition leaders, everyone is working together on it and looking for the Hungarian government through the Post to save the mail from closing. This is in the interest of every Hungarian person. Some municipalities take over their operations, and he is, by the way, a pro-government government leader. Think of it, Minister, that there are places where you have to travel within five miles of the city to the next post office. There are small settlements where, rather than the neighbouring settlement, the institutions providing postal services do not remain open, but have to travel two or three settlements. This is totally unacceptable. You say that there is no source for this. Szerencségy Zrt. had a net turnover of HUF 701 billion last year. Mr. Secretary. Which do you think is more important? Support for government firms or support for Magyar Posta, which is in the interest of all Hungarian people? But I will make it clear to everyone: the question is to support the family and friends of ministers, or to support the Hungarian Post. I think it shouldn't even be a question. Mr. Secretary. In recent years, how many billions have been scattered by the Gambling Company. to support similar companies instead of supporting the Hungarian Post? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I look forward to your substantive answer. By the way, I turned to Gambling Ltd. with a request for data in writing. I'm waiting for their answer, too. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2022-11-08-133	Congressman, thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Mr. Miniszer.
u2022-11-08-134	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, After sitting here a week ago, when you were answered by Prime Minister on a similar matter, you failed to recall some of the answer, which, in my opinion, was the most important part. The fact is that when we joined the European Union, regardless of whether you were against it at the time, we made certain rules, and these are competition rules. And competition rules do not allow the Hungarian Post to support the state. So no matter how much money we have to spend on reducing the costs, regardless of the economic situation faced by all the governments of Europe and Europe, there is a legal barrier to such support at the Post Office. Quite simply, the European Union does not accept it or the regulation prohibits the State from allowing state aid in the case of a postal service which is now liberalised and thus free marketised. There is no way for such State aid. In your faction, he was the chairman of Jobbik earlier, he also criticized legitimate techniques when we tried to ensure the operation of the Post Office; I remember well a few months ago. We have done everything we can to ensure that the postal service is sustainable for as long as possible in as many places as possible. Even now, the leaders of Magyar Posta are negotiating with several municipalities. They will do their best to ensure that the postal service is available as soon as possible, but it should be noted that the postal service must now operate according to rules that can ensure its own survival from its revenues, and at the moment the Hungarian Post Office is unable to do so. That is why a transformation is taking place, and our common goal is to close the mail in as few places as possible and to enjoy the highest possible quality of service for those who continue to use the services of Magyar Posta. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-11-08-135	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2022-11-08-136	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. The gaming tax of lottery games around the world is generally a social foundation. In America, for example, it supports public education, public health and disabled people and homeless people in England. With us, fitness programs and peace process are not national strategic issues and spending! Rather, the Hungarian Post should be supported. But I'll translate it to you to understand. Where will people give up national consultation responses? [[Dr. László György Lu-kács: At Kata Sarka!]] However, the situation is far more serious and tragic than making fun of this situation. Please support the rescue of the mail. Jobbik, as a responsible conservative party, started collecting signatures online and on paper. If you're no longer in charge, please at least stand by the case. Mr. Secretary. Less NER, and then everyone wins. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik. Bence Rétvári: Rhyme Carver! Intercoms.]]
u2022-11-08-137	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Minister. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2022-11-08-138	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The thing is, it's good that if Gambling Zrt. has revenue, it's also good that you spend it on the right purposes. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman:]] But if you listened to the statements of the answer received last week, or what I just said was clear or you do not wish to misunderstand, then you can also see that however much profit Szerencségy Zrt. might have had, this alone will not remedy the problems of Magyar Posta. [[17.40]] He's not gonna fix it. [[Dr. László György Lukács: No need to cover with the Brussels elite!]] in any form, unfortunately, it is not possible to do so under EU competition law. Therefore, other solutions must be found. We're talking to several municipalities, and we're just trying to close up post offices where it's gonna cost the local community as little as possible. I am sure that we will find the best solution, partly in conjunction with the municipalities. I trust that the state that is created at the Hungarian Post will not be more detrimental to the quality of services than it has been in recent years. Unfortunately, the operation of the post office [[Dr. László György Lukács: What about the employees?]] if it is not necessary to make it profitable, at least at least further losses, similar losses cannot be financed by the Hungarian State. This is excluded by EU legislation. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-11-08-139	I thank the Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, András Imre Jámbor, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister of Technology and Industry an immediate question: It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr.Zsófia Koncz has authorised the Secretary of State to reply. I'm asking if you'd like to accept the recipient's identity. [[On the sign of András Imre Jámbor:]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-11-08-140	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State, as you are probably well-known, Mayors Krisztina Baranyi and József Tóth asked the government to solve an important problem due to an increase in fees. Three months ago, at the time of the increase in costs, the municipalities informed MVM that there may be difficulties in clearing houses where they operate a modern, efficient and environmentally friendly heating system, but for legal reasons they cannot yet be converted into condominiums. I am asking you, too, that the people in these houses, in the social housing unit, receive the gas, do not have to pay 80,000 forints instead of their average heating bill of 10 thousand forints because of the government's bad regulation. It seems as the first heating bills arrive, that there is a problem not only in these two districts, and not only in these two districts was MVM helpless. We also know that in 2012, a part of this problem already existed at the time of the introduction of the reduction of the rent, and then the problem was solved with a simple amendment, but given the situation in the yoga town, it now seems a little more complicated. In Józsefváros there are three condominiums where the municipality is the owner, yet the residents were charged a market price for the rent. But even bigger problem is the former vacant flats, but now they have residents, because the trustee is the owner here, and the residents still have to pay market prices. In fact, the situation is even more bizarre than that of 49 residents with a charge-card watch, but this watch is also in the name of the trustee; here the residents first noticed that they could buy only gas and electricity at increased prices. Madam Secretary! With prepaid electricity consumers, we have already managed to ensure that normal rules apply to the purchase of energy. First, that the three companies, E.ON, MVM and ELM, should follow a common practice, then that they should establish an annual procedure instead of a complicated day. After that, you promised to make up for it, and finally you managed to fight it out to make up for it automatically. I thank you for this, and I hope that we can make a change in this case together, that MVM will be willing to comply with the request of the municipalities, and that no yoga town, Franciscan city, and any other resident in the country will have to pay an extra fee plus below average consumption.
u2022-11-08-141	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary Zsófia Koncz. Here you go.
u2022-11-08-142	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to stress that the Hungarian Government has always considered the municipalities to be a very important partner, and in fact in 2010 the municipalities had to be completely consolidated, because they were on the verge of bankruptcy. Then we settled a debt of HUF 1,400 billion. So the fact is that this government has always considered it extremely important for us to help the municipalities in this situation, which the left has put in. In this particular case, which you have mentioned, I would like to point out that Article IX does not apply. We're talking about a district. In 2016, the mayor of Ferencváros called the reduction of rent a lie, which has been consistently represented by this government since 2013. I think it is important to highlight this, and it is also very important that if the sanctions introduced were not supported by the Dialogue, that would be a great help. But regardless of everything, we are negotiating with the municipalities now, as Minister for Foreign Affairs, György Balla is negotiating with the rural municipalities and Zsolt Láng as Commissioner of Government on all matters concerning energy. In addition, the energy hazard operational tribe is constantly examining energy security issues. On the other hand, I would like to ask the Member to acknowledge that the Hungarian families, every family, have provided HUF 181 thousand a month as a huge help. I think that we must fight together for this result, and I would like to ask for the support of a Member, who, as I understand it, also worked as Chief Advisor of Gergely Christmas in 2019, so he may actually have a great view of the capital. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-11-08-143	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, The congressman has a rejoinder. Here you go.
u2022-11-08-144	I'm really glad to hear that answer, actually, no. It's really not a question of whether you like local governments or not. The question is not whether there are sanctions or there are no sanctions. The question is not whether it is a reduction in overhead or not. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Yes, that's a big question.]] The question is that people living in social housing can pay the bill at the end of the month. It can be loaded with all sorts of political messes, and it can be complicated. [[Bence Rétvári: You evict them!]] But my question is quite simple. The government is taking care of this situation and helping to get energy at hundreds of below-average prices for thousands of families looking at Budapest as a whole. That's the simple question that needs to be answered. This should not be pointed at the municipalities, as there are retail consumers here on the regular basis, who have been re-listed for market payments because of the bad regulation rules. These regulations should normally be put in place to provide public consumers with energy under average consumption at reduced prices. That's all I'm asking. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the dialogue benches.]]
u2022-11-08-145	Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-11-08-146	I would like to confirm once again that we are negotiating with the local governments, but I would also like to ask the representative for his help, his support, so that we can help the Hungarian families and at all have energy in Hungary, because in the struggles we are fighting in Brussels, it would also be good to help the opposition. But that's not what we're feeling. I think that should be considered first, because it is that there should be energy, and beyond that we can ensure a reduced price for average consumption, and above that a more favourable price than the market price is a very great effort, and I think that cooperation is needed in all aspects of this situation. I would also like to point out to you that it is also a great achievement that Eurostat has examined energy prices over the past period, and there is only one country from 24 Member States examined where the gas price has not increased, and this is Hungary. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-11-08-147	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, President Novak, representative of Mi Hazank, would you like to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question:, Will you put a Hajlandóke advertising tax on Facebook, YouTube and similar multi-companies? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr András Tállai has given the Deputy Minister the right to reply. I ask Mr. Congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[On the sign of the Foreman of Novak:]] Yes, you have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-11-08-148	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The Hungarian government has made a pact with Facebook and other multinational companies: another year has extended their exemption from advertising tax. This is four-and-a-half years' exemption, zero-percent tax rate, while Hungarians are being hit with world record VAT, and they are also in the interest of raising their rent. But next year we could have expected HUF 15 billion in revenue from the advertising tax, according to government estimates. Since 1 July 2019 and currently no advertising tax has to be paid to Facebook, and Google has never paid to Hungary. Since 2010, I have encouraged the introduction of advertising tax, and I have also explained that I would only recommend a discount or facilitation if it were advertisements with a socially useful world view, in which case they could be exempted from tax, for example, if a yogurt advertisement portrays a large family lifestyle as beautiful and attractive. In the end, you have taken a completely different approach, but the fact that, on top of that, these multinational tech companies are completely exempt from their tax liability, every year, seems to have been extended now, is in no way acceptable. You have made an amazing pact with Facebook and its associates in order to serve multinational interests. According to news, the Hungarian Advertising Association initiated an extension of the advertising tax exemption on 18 October, Antal Rogán immediately indicated that the government would consider the request and that the amendment of the law was submitted that day. [[17.50]] So is there a social consultation in your governance, an examination of the expected economic consequences, or a decision in a hidden box, thrown away from the interests of the Hungarian people? That's the rhetorical question for me. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-11-08-149	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Minister András Tállai. Here you go.
u2022-11-08-150	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, There's no pact between the government and Facebook, Google or YouTube, because that's what's going on. If he had made a pact, he would not have imposed the advertising tax on these companies for the first time in the world in 2014. After that, the European Commission will understand that you ignore the European Union and that Hungary is a member of the European Union, and that Hungary is not a member of the European Union, but it is so, regardless of whether you have burned the EU flag, so in Hungarian, the European Commission has forced the Hungarian Government to suspend this law and to pay back taxes collected so far. Then, the Hungarian Government went to the European Court of Justice, and at the European Court of Justice it reached out to Hungary to produce legislation that meets the legal requirements of the European Union and that can be introduced in Hungary. By the way, he did this on his own in Europe. That is true, however, this bill and this law will not enter into force on 1 January 2023. Not because, as you said, the Hungarian-owned association representing advertising and media industry has asked the government to examine it and review its decision. And there is a proverb: the Hungarian government did not want to pour out the child with bath water, and therefore the scope of this law will not be valid now. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-11-08-151	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return, please.
u2022-11-08-152	Secretary of State, now? Well, four and a half years we're talking about a huge loss of income. Only next year is 15 billion forints of revenue lost after multinational tech companies pen the laws for you. Get on your heels, and you're gonna have to tax them. The advertising tax does apply, in principle, since 2014, although I have been calling for it here in Parliament long before, but in 2014 you have finally accepted it. And now, in spite of this, do you accept that, bowing to the European Commission, kneeling down before them, they can operate exempt from tax? ! While two industries have also achieved explosive price increases during the Covid dictatorship, online advertising and online cloud service providers. Therefore, I think that this law should be extended to cloud platforms, as Microsoft and Amazon, for example, have such serious services. So I suggest that this should be extended and put into effect most of all, since this has in principle been enshrined in the law since 2014. Thank you. [[Applause from the benches of our country.]]
u2022-11-08-153	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Mr. Deputy Minister. You have the floor.
u2022-11-08-154	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Congressman, I am here to remind you of today's news, and the OECD says that Hungary has one of the most competitive tax systems in the world. So overall, there is absolutely no problem with the country's tax system; imagine that we are already ahead of Sweden, Germany and Austria. In particular, this study highlights how attractive we make our country with a 9 percent corporate tax [[Foreman Novak: For Facebook!]] At the same time, we can make Hungary more competitive with other tax cuts. I believe that the Hungarian Government is on the right track with regard to taxes and tax systems, and will continue to follow this path. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-11-08-155	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What do you think of this, Prime Minister?" It's an address. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the head of the LMP faction said in advance that he would ask for a personal reply, so that he will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate questions due to Mr. Prime Minister's absence. Dear Parliament, Máté Kanász-Nagy, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. When does the government acknowledge that he is the biggest fan of neoliberal politics? It's an address. Due to the absence of Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, the Minister who led the Prime Minister's Office was entitled to reply. In view of the fact that the head of the LMP did not make a preliminary statement on the personal response request, the decision-making house rule should therefore be deemed to require a personal reply from the questioning representative. You have the floor.
u2022-11-08-156	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Imagine a litmus paper that measures neoliberal steering, then buy a test tube, pour the government's measures into it, then put this litmus paper in the test tube. Well, please, this litmus paper is gonna color. I don't know if it's blue, so it's gonna be alkaline, or it's gonna be very red litmus paper, which means it's gonna be very acidic, but I'm pretty sure it's gonna be acidic or alkaline, very, very harmful and dangerous for health. Let's see how I say this and how I consider it a neoliberal government that you're doing. Well, there's an amendment to the social law right now, that's what they're trying to change, isn't it? In the middle of the crisis, you're telling people to help themselves, the state won't help you from now on. But I could mention the systematic downsizing of the public sector, including the wage situation of teachers, or if we go on and not only talk about the public sector and mention wages, for example, here is László Parragh's statement, who said a few weeks ago that one of the foundations of our competitiveness is still the cheap labour force today. If we look at the recipe for neoliberal governance, that's exactly what it's all about: cutting down social security, by the way, cutting environmental regulations, it's about the cheap and vulnerable workforce you're working on, so it's basically for you, the competitiveness, the social sphere, pay, cutting down on environmental protection, cutting down on public responsibility. Well, actually, it's all neoliberal. The question is, when are you going to assume that your government is neoliberal, when are you going to admit that you are neoliberal? Thank you very much for your answer. [[A round of applause from the LMP.]]
u2022-11-08-157	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister.
u2022-11-08-158	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I didn't comment earlier when Jobbik called itself a modern conservative party, but it may be part of this process that you call the government neoliberal. Undoubtedly, in the current level of public debate, it is refreshing to see a very specific, extreme, new course of attack unfolding against the government; against the government that the liberal, if you will like, neoliberal press from Der Spiegel to The Times to Washington Post, as a representative of illiberal government and illiberal democracy, attempts to describe and, of course, associate all kinds of lies with that. But the reality is, on the other hand, the classic XIX. Apart from the liberalism that demands freedoms and national independence of the century, which no longer characterizes the representatives of European liberalism, we therefore do not regard ourselves as liberal and far from us, since liberalism now means reducing freedom of expression in Europe, a politically correct way of speaking, all that is extremely far from the Hungarian government. On the other hand, on social issues, I would like to point out that, two weeks ago, I had the opportunity here in Parliament to say that today we are spending three and a half times as much on social care as we spent in 2010, so in the last year when the socialist majority adopted the budget, and the most important social policy measure is not in the world of social benefits, but that today there are not 3 million 600 000 people working in Hungary, but 4 million 700 000 people, I think this is the most important step forward. And I think that the social law needs to find an appropriate and clear solution that makes clear the state's involvement in the social sphere, but also makes it clear that the family, the local authorities, really have this kind of responsibility, adding that the municipalities are part of the state, so in this sense the confrontation of the two is unnecessary. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[18.00]]
u2022-11-08-159	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2022-11-08-160	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, you weren't here during the social law debate when we had the opportunity to argue for nearly a full day. There, we have already clarified this common government misunderstanding with Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, which concerned the financing of social benefits. Here's the thing, and KSH says that we are currently spending 17.3 percent of GDP on social protection expenditure, which was 21-22-23 percent before 2010, so the funding of these benefits was returned by at least 5-6 percentage points. [[Bence Rétvári: Unemployment was higher.]] As far as the labour market is concerned, I would like to ask you that you agree with László Parragh's thoughts that the cheap labour force is one of the foundations of our competitiveness today. Some people dare to say that, some people don't, but it's still an essential element. Minister, you dare to say that our competitiveness is based on cheap labour, because not only on employment, but also on wages. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So you agree with László Parragh? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2022-11-08-161	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Minister. You have the floor, Minister.
u2022-11-08-162	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, As far as your question about cheap labour is concerned, if we look at where the investments are coming from in Hungary today, we should say that today it is no longer at all and much less decisive that labour costs are lower than in Western Europe, but, let's say, with a large Chinese investment, it is hardly possible for anyone to think that the Chinese labour force would not be significantly cheaper. Several major Asian investments have been made in recent years, and a lot of people from Western Europe are investing. In the case of investments in Western Europe, we must say that it is increasingly less and less relevant that the cost of wages is still slightly lower, quite simply because wages have increased significantly in Hungary, and because of the significantly increased wages, companies with higher added value are now bringing in research and development activities. If you look at the investments of the last few years, you will see this clearly. So I assure you, Member, that although we are unfortunately not there yet, like Western Europe, in terms of average wages, this is the goal, but if we can keep the difference that we set as a target [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] so that Hungarian economic growth is at least 2 percent higher than that of Western European countries, we will soon be there in wages. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-08-163	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mónika Bartos, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question:. What is the risk of Soros' war communication? It's an address. Because of Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. Tamás Menczer granted the right to reply. I'm asking if you'd like to accept the recipient's identity. [[For signal:]] Yes, you have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2022-11-08-164	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The best and perhaps the only way to preserve our civilization is to defeat Putin as soon as possible. That's the point. At least according to George Soros, from whom this quote comes. In May, at the Davos World Economic Forum, the not-so-patriotic sentence was heard by him, to which his son responded a few months later, making it clear that the Open Society Foundation is also doing its best to achieve this goal. We need to finance peace and not war. This quote comes from Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, and indeed, the common interest dictates that, in a war between the brothers and sisters in Europe, we should not strive for defeat, but for persuasion, and not for escalation, but for peace. However, it is obvious that some have an interest in the ever - deepening war conflict. All you have to do is look at the statements, look at the news, and see the full range of war psychosis. You can also hear voices that are directly aimed at expanding the war. György Soros is wrong, because these terrible prospects not only preserve us, but put our civilization in danger. It is clear that both Europe and our country can have no other interests than peace-making as soon as possible. Therefore, I respectfully ask Mr State Secretary how much room the Hungarian Government has for manoeuvre in the work it is doing to start peace negotiations as soon as possible. Thank you in advance for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-08-165	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Menczer.
u2022-11-08-166	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Unfortunately, it is not surprising that speculators appear in difficult times, so we have experienced and experienced this in terms of migration and, unfortunately, in terms of war. These characters are always involved in chaos, trying to fish in confusion. I would argue with you in so much, of course, your claim is true that György Soros is wrong, but I would not put it that way, I would say that György Soros represents his own interests as usual, and his interests are typically contrary to Hungarian interests and contrary to European interests. But the situation is even more serious, as Johansson has made a similar, very similar statement, Commissioner for Home Affairs in Brussels, who said that the crisis will end if Russia loses. I think this is an extremely dangerous statement, because it links the end of the crisis to a military result, a military result that we do not know when it will come, if it does come at all. On the other hand, the Hungarian position is that an immediate ceasefire is needed, the war must not continue until now, but an immediate ceasefire, peace negotiations, effective peace talks are needed, and then a stable, lasting peace must be established. So we are opposed to any declaration aimed at continuing the war conflict and pushing the processes in this direction, and we are in favour of all efforts that are pro-peace. Unfortunately, there are very few of them, and much more is about continuing the war. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-08-167	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her reply, and I would like to give her the floor in return.
u2022-11-08-168	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary, for your answer. You mentioned the interests, and I would like to place on that thought the following quote, which I would like to share with you. It says: "We will never abandon Ukraine and we will not stop our work there for more than 30 years. This was said by the son of György Soros, a sentence that appeared on his community side under a picture that encourages an armed struggle. So it is really felt that they are thinking along the lines of interests. It is very interesting that voices supporting war can spread freely, and everyone who wants to serve peace is taking a very high risk. Of course, it is not a question of who the aggressor is, but it is not a question of how to end this war with as little loss as possible. It is also true that the ceasefire does not require bombs and weapons to make peace, which we wish to serve. The question is how much further this conflict will have to go before these negotiations even begin. I'd like to ask you about that, too. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] how you see the international situation, there could be a greater international cooperation for peace. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-08-169	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, You have the right to a rejoinder, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2022-11-08-170	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If anyone or anyone knows how bad the situation is, it's us. We are in the neighbourhood of the war, Ukraine is a neighbouring country, where a large number of Hungarian national communities still live, while many have fled from the war. So if anyone is interested in peace, then Hungary, and we are, are in favour of peace, we are in favour of peace. He asked how I saw the international situation in this regard. Unfortunately, I'm seeing very bad processes, and I'm very gloomy. Minister of Foreign Affairs regularly reports publicly that the talks he attends should be held in Brussels by the Foreign Affairs Council, that is to say, the meeting of foreign ministers, or any other international forum, almost anyone but him, or that I am not exaggerating that I am taking off the, and I say that no one outside him talks about peace, and it is true here in the Hungarian Parliament, too, that no one outside the government and the governing parties is talking about peace. That's the problem. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-08-171	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, András Aradszki, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Foreign Minister an immediate question: why is Brussels continuing to force energy sanctions? It's an address. Because of Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. Tamás Menczer granted the right to reply. I'm asking if you'd like to accept the recipient's identity. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Congressman. [[18.10]]
u2022-11-08-172	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The sanctions imposed by Brussels and the suspended sanctions have led to serious changes in the energy market. We can now see that the sanctions policy has failed, but Brussels' rampage in this respect continues, with a new sanction package being prepared at the border. However, the war will not end, and we do not know when this will end, but it is certain that sanctions are now strangling the European economy. The energy crisis has fundamentally overridden everything, as we have not thought of such an increase in energy costs in our dreams. The left, however, as a Hungarian spokesperson for Western liberal thinking, remains in favour of sanctions and Brussels instead of representing Hungarian interests, as has already been done in the case of the migration crisis and the genderlobbi. In contrast to the left, the government wants to protect Hungarian businesses from bankruptcy, workers from dismissal, families from the ever- ringing negative consequences of the energy crisis. The Hungarian government has adopted rescue packages and is at the forefront of this in Europe, as it has been in operation for nine years, as a reduction programme that provides monthly HUF 181 thousand to all Hungarian families and pensioners in order to protect the rent reduction. Dear Secretary of State, In order to avoid a European economic and livelihood disaster, Brussels should finally pursue a common sense policy, but it does not. That is why I am asking you, Mr Secretary of State, why Brussels continues to force energy sanctions. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-11-08-173	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Menczer. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2022-11-08-174	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, In relation to the sanctions policy, he set out two objectives, in other words: he had two promises for Brussels. One is that it will lead us to the end of the war. There are clear statements and retrievable statements from individuals and organisations, such as the European External Action Service, that the aim of the sanctions policy is to end the war. That is clearly and clearly stated. Compared to this, we can see that, let alone the end of the war, the situation is more serious than ever in recent months. So, unfortunately, this goal has not been achieved, and the war continues. The other thing that was promised is that it will hurt Russia more with sanctions targeted and intended to hit than Europe. I would like to draw attention here to the fact that if we compare the first nine months of this year with the first nine months of last year, we can see that energy revenues in the first nine months of last year, January to September, amounted to 35% in the Russian budget. [[Gergely Harvesto: We take gas dearly!]] And this year, they accounted for 43 percent. This means that this year Russia has much more revenue from gas and oil because of sanctions policy than it did last year. So Russia's revenue, Russian revenue, was not reduced, but increased significantly, as a result of the sanctions policy. On the other hand, and at the same time there is a lack of energy in Europe, an energy crisis, the price of energy is in heaven, and, to a large extent, inflation is also in heaven. So for all these reasons, we say that the sanctions policy is a failure, that it needs to be reviewed and that it needs to be abolished, at least in any case its energy part. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-11-08-175	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2022-11-08-176	Thank you for the Secretary of State's reply. The situation may seem even worse, as we are talking about the introduction of new energy sanctions, namely, the source of nuclear energy, the restriction of nuclear products or the restriction of imports of nuclear products, or there is such a proposal on the table. I would add that this is a greater threat than the ban on imports of petroleum products, for example, Hungary accounts for 80% of our electricity generation in Paks, but it is affected by the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Bulgaria and also by Slovenia and Croatia. So if there were restrictions in this regard, it would be far more dangerous than the oil import restriction, the consequences of which we are experiencing. On this issue, the government succeeded because it was able to achieve an exception. I urge the government to take action against nuclear sanctions. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-11-08-177	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2022-11-08-178	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, You are right that the situation is getting worse [[Gergely Arató: The international situation is increasing.]] As regards the nuclear field, the situation is indeed the same as the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said that the last Foreign Affairs Council has already talked about the ninth sanction package, and many have suggested, as you have indicated, that this sanction package should be part of the nuclear area, which is truly unacceptable, and the Hungarian Foreign Minister has made this clear to us there, and it is unacceptable to us. So far there has been no sanctioned nuclear power, nuclear territory, and we will never allow that, this is a red line for us, like gas and oil, to be sanctioned. It is very important for us, and it is very important for the Hungarian energy security and the reduction of the rent that the Paks project can continue. Therefore, we will not accept any such sanctions in the nuclear field. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-11-08-179	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the immediate questioning. Now we're going to talk about questions. Dear Parliament, Gergely Arató, representative of DK, would you like to ask the Minister for Construction and Investment a question:. During the economic and livelihood crisis, should Parliament be renovated? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-11-08-180	Dear House, Mr. Secretary. The voters of Kőbánya and Kispest ask whether the government has gone mad for good. In a situation where, by the way, there is no money for the heating of schools, when hundreds of thousands of families are under threat from the debt crisis, when pensioners no longer have money to buy food, and, as we have heard from the Secretary of State, the international situation is increasing, in such a situation, Parliament's renovation is really the most important? We all love this building, by the way, and it is an important symbol of the country, and it is particularly kind to us, Members of Parliament. It has been renovated in recent decades, even during your government. But we are sure... do we have to spend nearly 500 million forints to start planning the complete renovation of Parliament and its internal engineering renovation? The fact is, Mr Secretary, that, of course, maintenance of monuments is always important, that is always an important aspect. But maybe a year or two or three could wait. We could wait until we can solve the country's a little more important problems, the economic crisis you caused, the social disaster, the environmental disaster, the crisis in the economy, the food crisis, until we can solve the problem of heating in older homes, schools and social institutions. It is a special beauty of the proposal to move Parliament. We just hope that the legislation is not intended to be moved to the Hungarian NERSAILLES, the castle of 60 Puszta. Minister, my question is this: are you willing to consider the proposal in the current brutal financial context, seeing that this work can wait until the economic crisis you have created is over? [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2022-11-08-181	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The question is answered by Mr Nándor Csepreghy, Deputy Minister. There you go. You have the floor. [[18.20]]
u2022-11-08-182	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, First of all, allow me to thank you for the opportunity to answer a very important question in front of the public of Parliament. However, if you mentioned your constituents and the questions expressed in your electors, I would be sure, although I do not wish to be an unaccepted advisor, your constituents would be more pleased with you if you prepared for a question before the condition and read the statement set out in the Gazette that the government did not decide to start renovating Parliament, but to prepare for the work that would allow a 120-year-old building to be renovated at all. [[Gergely Harvesto: That's what I'm talking about, look back. Zoltán Varga: Comprehension!]] when the Hungarian Parliament... If you finish supporting the sanctions in Brussels and taking action against Hungary, you will be given the opportunity to get Hungary back, to receive the funds it deserves. We are talking about whether one of the most important shrines of European politics can indeed be renewed in a worthy way, with a European scale and a scale. It is no wonder that the Member opposes these measures, since you have been a secretary of state for governments that have not put anything on the table in terms of Hungarian investment, in terms of monuments or in terms of market investment. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] It is no coincidence that the elections were lost in 2010, it is not a coincidence that four times in the past elections have been lost, and it is not a coincidence that there is a lack of preparation or incompetence. [[Sic!]] and on a permanent basis in Brussels policy [[Gergely Harvestó: Indeed, I miss incompetence!]] They won't be able to do anything else in the next election. Thank you very much, Mr President, I am honored to have your attention. [[Gergely Arató: I agree with you in the absence of incompetence. A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-08-183	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister of the Interior a question, "Why has the support of infant formula been reduced?" It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2022-11-08-184	Thank you very much. Mr President, Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary. Recorded Fidesz inflation and the brutal increase in food prices have also reached infant formulas. The fact that Fidesz has deliberately weakened the forint has played a major role in the price increase. In addition, the social security support for formulae has been reduced from 55% to 25% for certain products. The fact is that the Fidesz government doubles the price of infant formula: on the one hand, it increases the price of low-forint Fidesz inflation and on the other hand, the reduction of state aid also contributes to increased prices. This leads to a double or even triple increase in the price of certain infant formulas under the Fidesz government. I don't have to tell you what that means in a family where they can't even pay the heating bill raised by Fidesz. One thing is certain: this measure by the government does not increase the desire of families to have children at all. Let's just say this is more of an anti-family measure. And I am not the only one saying this; many mothers have indicated that while there is not enough breast milk, the government is not helping them, but on the contrary, punishing them. Although the press reports that the reduction of subsidies does not affect medicinal products, I would like to thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for telling me which products really fall within the scope of the subsidised products. I think it would be particularly useful to provide information where these changes are available and can be followed up. I would therefore like to ask, in view of what has made it inevitable to reduce the state aid for infant formulas, why this was necessary. To what will the amount of aid released as a result of the change be used? And what could be the goal that is more important than feeding babies? I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-11-08-185	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2022-11-08-186	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Here, in front of the public of Parliament, I deny what you have said, honourable Member, that you have saved on the families. If I have time, I'll give you some examples, but first I'd like to eliminate the false news you've been trying to excite here. The healthy development of infants is in the interest of all of us. We also try to help mothers to feed their children with breast milk, but if there is any obstacle to this, there are various forms of formula available with social security support. Currently, more than 20 infant formulas or follow-on formulas are available with aid; and there are also other formulae for special medical purposes, which are also supported by the State. The average fee for infant formulae and follow-on formulae currently supported, Madam honourable Member, is not the amount you referred to, but 2189. This is the average, so there is cheaper and there is something more expensive, but on average you can get it for HUF 2189, so you can get it at a much better price than if you use it without any support. The use and support of this has been established and operates in a standard way known to families. I would also deny what you said that Hungarian families would not receive support for their rent. A family with an average consumption receives HUF 181,000 in support. What I am trying to say in one breath is what you did to the Hungarian families, how you saved on the Hungarian families: they wanted to tax even the family allowance, which was destroyed only by the Constitutional Court in 2009; they took the Hungarian families into foreign exchange loans; they took away the regular child protection support; they took away the tax relief of one and two children. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Yes!]] ; they have taken away the benefit of tax relief for three children; they have shortened their children's period; and they have also reduced the upper age limit of the family allowance in order to pay for less time. Now, that was really saving up on families. And we will continue to increase the support of Hungarian families in the year of the epidemic and now in the year of the energy crisis. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-08-187	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, Kristóf Márton Tompos, a representative of the Momentum, wishes to ask the Foreign Minister a question, which is true, Minister? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-11-08-188	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, To my surprise, Péter Szijjártó, on Thursday the previous Thursday, in connection with not putting Finnish-Swedish NATO accession on the agenda, said with his mouth, and I quote: "The Parliament, as everyone has seen, has been discussing in a very forced process since last summer the legislative proposals of which a significant part must be negotiated for Brussels. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, [[Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] In other words, the Parliament will decide when to put the proposal already tabled by the government on the agenda. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, [[Nacsa Lawrence: Both are true!]] Dear Secretary of State, The fact is, this is surprising in two ways. One is that in July, in the middle of the summer, it was simply 24 hours long enough for you to kill the tax form of the kata at that time. Twenty-four hours! [[Nacsa Lawrence: Nobody killed anything! Bence Rétvári: That's not true either!]] Compared to this, they have not had time to announce the Finnish-Swedish accession since 14 July, for nearly four months. To this point, you have said that there is indeed a social consultation going on, and, unfortunately, there is no way to put these two points on the agenda at the moment. Otherwise, we should not imagine social consultation as these fantastic bomb posters, which have been used to spread across the country and national consultation. This looks like if someone goes up to kormany.hu, they can look up the documents that contain an e-mail address, and if they really have to, they can write an e-mail. Now, this is your social consultation. So my question, Mr. Secretary, is which is true and which is not. Is it because of Brussels as usual, or is it because of social consultation that everything you have to do over and over again because of the promises you made to Brussels? I'm really asking you to give me some guidance on this, or if you can't accept it, just tell me when these two damn points are finally on the agenda. That's all you have to say. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the opposition benches. Bence Rétvári: Is this how you talk about being a jerk? About NATO accession? The Finns and the Swedes, they're fucked? Irgum-burgum!]]
u2022-11-08-189	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Menczer. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2022-11-08-190	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you that the Government supports the accession of the Finnish and Swedish to NATO, that we have made a corresponding presentation to Parliament, and that Parliament will negotiate this issue, as you know. However, we are here in the Hungarian Parliament, and while you were talking about the Finns and the Swedes, perhaps it is also right in the Hungarian Parliament to talk about the Hungarians, I think that there is also a place for this. If I may, I would like to quote you on an important issue for the Hungarians, regarding the reduction of the rent:, The reduction of the rent was a political product, which quoted socialist times and completely ignored any market logic. So you and your party would abolish the reduction of the rent, which is important to the Hungarian people, which means HUF 181 thousand a month. And in parallel, you have made the following statements: your party president, Ferenc Gelencsér, said that the sanctions were working; Anna Donáth said that so many sanctions were not enough, and he also said that the sanctions imposed were working; and András Fekete-Győr said that if they were on the government, you would definitely have joined the oil embargo. [[18.30]] So the former president or presidents, the current president, the next president, everyone said the sanctions worked. Therefore, in addition to you taking away the reduction in the costs, you are in favour of sanctions, support and support the sanctions that are causing the crisis, the increase in energy prices and inflation. I propose, honourable Member, that, in addition to the Finns and the Swedes, you should sometimes also take care of the Hungarian people and try to hit the Hungarian interest. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-11-08-191	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Ander Balázs, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior:. Or why is the government so cruel to civil society organisations that maintain social institutions? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-11-08-192	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Instead of Christian solidarity, I have already submitted a written question entitled Buying Vodafone a few weeks earlier, as there is no news of the public utility of civil society organisations that maintain social institutions, but the horror accounts are also coming to them. I trusted a cynicism-free, truly meaningful response to personalism. I admit, I was naive, and at least on this point, you should have pushed yourself, Mr. Secretary of State. Power arrogance has won. While we see that there is money for amazing things, let's just think about buying Vodafone from hundreds of billions of state, right above the heads of the most vulnerable, as the sword of Damocles, let's say, the horror of infirmity or eviction. The Somogy County Association of Disabled People provides for about 1,600 of our countrymen with disabilities, and sometimes they try to make it easier for them and their families to care for them from birth to funeral. You promised to protect the reduction of the overhead, in contrast to 9 times the gas price, 7 times the electricity bill, the news is on their side. Dr. Lajos Hegedűs also confirmed that in such a way the future is hopeless, he is the president of the association. He said that by the end of the year they would somehow drift away, and then no longer, as the state gives them only 70% of the norm in the form of grants, and also adjusted to previous energy accounts and prices, so that they carry out public tasks. The case, Mr Secretary of State, is not a somogyi speciality, but also concerns civil society organisations with similar profiles in other counties. So I ask, what happens to the workers, what happens to the caregivers, they push them off the Tajgetus? I would suggest less neoliberalism and more Christian social attitudes. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2022-11-08-193	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári will answer the question. You have the floor.
u2022-11-08-194	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Those who work in the social sphere really do work every day that deserves recognition, because they help people who may not be able to live a full life on their own, or even perform essential functions every day, so their activities are very important. We helped, and we're gonna help. In recent years we have increased the resources of the social sphere, we have increased the social fund by more than three times, by HUF 1001 billion. At the same time, there is an extraordinary situation throughout Europe, not only in Hungary, which your party president believes we are pursuing a sanctions policy against Russia, which is very right. Did you send this letter to the party president? [[Balázs Ander: Viktor Orbán voted for it!]] So what did he really support in Brussels, this sanctions policy there in Somogy, what does it mean for social organisations? [[Ander Balázs: In the association 9 times the gas price increase...]] We are trying to help everyone, social organisations and others, as well as state, church and civilians, with unique solutions; they can turn to the Ministry of the Interior, the Minister of State for Care. But maybe you'd like to do this letter, really, would you? To send to his president that when his big words change into coins there in Brussels, that's really what that means? Do you know what the consequences are? You say that we are talking about an increase in energy prices caused by the Orbán government. The Orbán government, imagine that by September, compared to the previous month, caused a 47 per cent increase in electricity prices in Stockholm according to your logic, in Tallinn there was a 41 per cent increase in electricity prices for the Orbán government, in Berlin and Prague, a 23 per cent increase in electricity prices in September compared to the summer, 88 per cent of natural gas in Tallinn, 36 per cent in Vienna and 23 per cent in Amsterdam compared to the previous month. This is what you call an increase in prices in Orbán in these countries, while there was no increase in electricity prices here in Hungary from August to September, and you know that the second cheapest electricity and the cheapest gas in Hungary [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The price. So, we're going to help these organizations. [[Ander Balázs: But not to the institutions!]] We only ask you not to prevent us from helping all Hungarian families and all charitable organisations more. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-11-08-195	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Congressman Tamás Mellár, representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Minister for Economic Development:. What will be the fate of closed post offices and their employees? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-11-08-196	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, According to Magyar Posta, 35 Budapest post offices were closed until 8 October, and according to a recent announcement, from 12 November, 331 other rural offices will be sent to this fate. There are nine Pécs among the country post offices. The State company justified its decision with savings and underutilisation. You have sentenced Pécs, among other things, to shut down post offices 7, 10, 13 and 19, leaving the eastern and north-eastern part of Pécs unattended, leaving the nearest mail accessible only by public transport or car. This will be an unsolvable task for many people. Similarly, the southern and northwestern parts of Pécs were badly affected. Is that really what the lives of tens of thousands of people in this area are worth to you? After the closures, there will be residents in Pécs who are 6-7 kilometers away from the nearest post office. The eastern side of Pécs has been characterised by a break-off, both economically and qualitatively. In this situation, you will only make this measure worse. My personal experience is that there is no problem with the use of the mail concerned, there is a great deal of traffic in these post offices. My question is, what will be the fate of closed mail workers? How do you supply those parts of the city where the service of Magyar Posta is terminated? As Parliamentary Representative of Pécs, I look forward to your reply. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2022-11-08-197	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2022-11-08-198	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I would like to clarify: in the capital, we are talking about closure and in other parts of the country we are talking about a recess. At the same time, it is necessary to record that the interruption of the post office together is far beyond the international standard, as the expected 1600 places will still have 2200 post offices. It is certainly well known to you that the war at our borders and the misguided Brussels sanctions policy have led to the release of energy prices in Europe, which has forced them to take extraordinary action even in Germany, which is significantly better than we are. The energy prices that have been released due to sanctions in Brussels have also put the post in a difficult position, and the penalty premium for the company is about HUF 20 billion, but you know that the Hungarian State cannot provide support to the post office because it would constitute prohibited state aid. It is well known that the government started saving on its own and imposed a 25-percent reduction in the use of gas by public bodies and state-owned companies. In view of this, exceptional measures were also needed at the post office to reduce energy consumption, which is the least effective from a social and energy point of view, but usually to halt the operation of low-traffic mail. I stress that none of the workers in the mail concerned are dismissed by the post office, offering work to all of its employees. In cities, the company will provide the service by means of redeployments and mobile mail in smaller settlements. We hope that Magyar Posta will accept its energy saving measures with a similar understanding [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] as the municipality of Pécs, since the opening hours of the cultural district have been shortened, the House of Happiness has been temporarily closed, there will be no decorative lighting at the Town Hall and the rest. Thank you for your patience. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[18.40]]
u2022-11-08-199	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, István Szabadi, representative of Mi Hazank, wishes to ask the Minister of Technology and Industry:. Why leave one and a half million Hungarians on the side of the road? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-11-08-200	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In October last year, a further long-term agreement was concluded to replace the exiting Russian gas contract for the transport of 4.5 billion cubic metres of gas per year, which in fact in the electoral campaign was said to ensure the maintenance of the overhead reduction. Although the contract was encrypted, KSH's external trade data showed that MVM would buy gas from Gazprom for as much as it would buy it on the Dutch gas exchange with a two-month delay. After the bluff about cheap Russian gas was no longer sustainable, Prime Minister also acknowledged that the Russian tariff was linked to the prices in Rotterdam and blamed Brussels for the fact that it was impossible to conclude a fixed price contract with the Russians. However, the EU competition rules do not change the fact that they lied through the campaign, otherwise they would not have been able to win a re-election by reducing the rent. The Dutch TTF listings peaked in August when EUR 340 per megawatt hour had to be paid for gas. In view of the fact that the European gas storage facilities have been full and the autumn weather has improved, the price of gas has fallen to a third, and on 1 November it moved around 120 euros per megawatt hour. At a press conference on 3 November, Minister of Foreign Affairs assured everyone that the current low gas prices will also be reflected in Hungarian purchasing prices. Please reply to plan to reduce the retail market price of HUF 753 per cubic metre accordingly or to increase the average consumption rate of at least 144 cubic metres per month on the basis of distorted data. His answer is particularly interested in the 1.5 million Hungarians whose family budgets will fall in the winter, and will be in grave danger, according to the data of the debt management company Intrum. The most affected are residents of the Kádár cubes, many of whom are disabled and old-age pensioners and the unemployed. Thank you.
u2022-11-08-201	Thank you. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Zsófia Koncz will answer the question. You have the floor.
u2022-11-08-202	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, When you got into Parliament, your party president promised you a constructive opposition. However, I would like to point out that your previous speech did not mean constructivity when you repeatedly said that the government lied. In this regard, I would like to clarify the situation because I think that you are misinterpreting the situation of gas prices. When the war broke out, on February 24th, the price of gas rose slightly, but it was set to a constant level of around $100. The steep rise began when the oil and gas embargo was announced. The price of gas was EUR 48 per megawatt in 2021, EUR 129 at the outbreak of the war, EUR 171 after the suspension of sanctions, and EUR 350 in the summer after the announcement of the oil and gas sanctions. This is more than a seven-fold increase. The European Union has clearly wronged sanctions because 40 percent of gas consumption has so far come from Russia. This quantity must obviously be replaced from somewhere else. It is also clear that China is benefiting from the current situation and, of course, also the United States. Even French President Macron resented that. With regard to gas prices, there is now a temporary calm, but the reason for this is that the large amount of gas consumed by Europe has been stored in the summer, and all the countries have been working on it. It is also a big thing that we have practically been able to store more than 86 percent, and this is a very high level of security for the country. I ask Mr President, that we continue to support these measures and work to ensure that Hungary's energy supply is ensured. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-08-203	I thank the Secretary of State for her reply. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior a question with the title of the lost rent allowance for local government apartments. In answering this question, Prime Minister László Palkovics, Minister of Technology and Industry, who is competent and competent according to the subject. At the request of Minister Zsófia Koncz, State Secretary, will answer the question. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-11-08-204	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, 217/2022 determining the scope of universal service holders during an emergency Government Decree No 7 According to paragraph 5 of Section 5, the local government shall be considered as a consumer of the population to the extent that the place of use of the tenants in the local government is guaranteed. However, on the basis of the invoices received from MVM Zrt., the rule for the protection of consumers cannot effectively apply to residents of the local government's apartments where the building is heated with a central gas boiler. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: In its district, this is an unsolvable burden for 367 families. They live to a hundred percent in an unsubstantiated, non-coastal house owned by the local government, in which only one gas meter belongs to the central gas boiler providing heating and hot water. The gas bill comes in the name of the municipality, the consumption per rental is further billed by the municipality to the tenants. Translation: In 12 buildings, the heating and hot water costs of 367 families, nearly 800 of our countrymen increase from HUF 10 thousand to HUF 80,000. A large part of the families rent the apartment on a social basis at IX. from district government, so the most vulnerable, most deprived families are put into existential crisis without their own faults. According to the information provided by MVM, since the 100% municipal house is not the 259/2022. The number of apartments will not be taken into account. A house with up to 68 apartments is entitled only to a reduced gas corresponding to a measuring point, i.e. an apartment. The problem is not unique, because this problem is not only IX, but XIII. it also exists in the district and is subject to the conditions laid down in Article 8 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. He's got similar problems in the district. I therefore ask with respect how the government intends to bring justice to the families who have lost their rights. Is it expected to be a government decision that will provide a long-term solution for families in similar situations across the country? Thank you very much for your reply.
u2022-11-08-205	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary Zsófia Koncz. Here you go.
u2022-11-08-206	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, We have already talked about this issue here in Parliament today. I also said then that Zsolt Láng, Commissioner of Government, would consult the capital and district authorities on energy issues, and György Balla, Minister for Foreign Affairs, with the rural settlements. I would also like to inform the Member, which I am sure you will see, that Hungarian families, households, are very important to the Hungarian government. In order to ensure this, we support Hungarian households with HUF 181 thousand per month. [[Antal Csárdi: But they get nothing of this!]] I would also like to say that the situation of the municipalities has been dealt with by this government since 2010. [[Antal Csárdi: That is not the question! Honor the voters and answer the question. The president's ringing the bell.]] At the beginning of the reply, I told you that we are constantly negotiating. Mr. Congressman, let's talk about how you thought about reducing the rent when we started doing this. In 2015, he said that the reduction of the rent is the 3.60 bread of Fidesz, and we see that, similarly to drugs, after the rapid euphoria, reality will soon be revealed, and it will soon be revealed that the money that the City Council is going to spend now to maintain the utility services that it needs to maintain will cost every Budapester 10 thousand HUF. That's how he felt about the reduction of the rent. By the way, the IX. The Mayor also said in the district in 2016 that we are talking about a lie of responsibility. I understand we're being called on to do something, but I just want to say that we have to do it together... [[Antal Csárdi: We just want to make sure that what is due to one person goes to the other. The president's ringing the bell.]] You've had your chance to talk, and I'm very, very honored if you'll listen to me. So, I think that cooperation is very important for the Hungarian government, but also for the settlements that you run, and I think that this is what we need to work on. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[18.50]]
u2022-11-08-207	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Károly Kontrat, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister of Regional Development:. How do EU funds serve the development of cycling infrastructure nationwide and in the Balaton region? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-11-08-208	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The development of a bicycle road is important in many respects, it also serves the role of leisure and tourism, and it is important in the field of health conservation and reduction of CO2 emissions in a broader perspective. This is why I think it is important that many of these developments have been made across the country in recent years using the available EU and domestic resources. It is a special pleasure for me that, in recent years, significant bicycle developments have been delivered in the area of Lake Balaton, first of all I would like to highlight the long-awaited bike route between Budapest-Balaton, which is more than 108 km long and has been implemented from national sources, creating a link between Budapest, Lake Venice and Lake Balaton. At least such an important development is the renovation of the Balaton bike circle, which is currently under way, with more than half of the biking circle nearly 205 km long being renewed, partly using EU funds. Here I would also like to highlight the sections between Tihany, Lepke row and Vortex, and between Balatonkenese and Balatonakarattya. I consider it important to mention the bicycle path built between Balatonalmádi-Fűzfő or the section connecting Szigliget and Tapolca, but I would also like to mention the latest development, the new bicycle route between Alsóörs and Felsőörs, which was also implemented from EU sources, is one of the last elements of the bicycle route connecting Veszprém with Balaton. From now on, anyone from the Balaton Circle can turn to Veszprém and reach the city of queens on a safe, high-quality road separate from car traffic. This is also important because the Veszprém-Balaton region will be Europe's cultural capital in 2023. Dear Secretary of State, In the EU development cycle ahead, will the government continue to use some of the resources for bicycle road development? What can we expect in this area in the coming years? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-08-209	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Csaba Latorcai, State Secretary, will answer the question. You have the floor.
u2022-11-08-210	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, As the Member said, our aim is to develop cycling routes and related infrastructure and services in order to implement transport development measures that create and strengthen conditions for sustainable transport, which contribute to climate change mitigation, reduction of emissions and the development of a viable urban and urban environment. In the 2014-20 development cycle, significant resources were invested in strengthening sustainable transport development, in the area and settlement development of the operational programmes and in the framework of the competitive Central Hungary operational programme, with more than HUF 167 billion in support of the development of the country, including the Balaton region. As a result, investments in bicycle traffic have been made across the country for 2 thousand kilometres, roads and infrastructure used by cyclists have increased in the capital, cities and settlements to ensure safe and comfortable cycling. In addition, within the framework of the economic development and innovation operational programme, we supported the development of cycling paths and cycling services in the touristly popular areas, including the development of the Tokaj-Hegyalja, Sopron-Fertő and the nearly 100 kilometres of cycling routes in the region of Lake Balaton. Not only the Tihany-Balatonkenese, Zamárdi-Balatonlelle, Balatonakarattya-Siófok sections have been renewed, but we have also expanded the forest bicycle path network around Lake Balaton. One of the objectives of the EU budget period ahead is to support a greener and lower carbon Europe, including sustainable and green transport development, which will be implemented under the TOP Plus and IKOP Plus operational programmes. These improvements will help the country's cycling infrastructure [[The president's ringing the bell.]] the flowering of the Hungarian people, as long as possible to preserve the health of Hungarian people. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-08-211	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Béla Mihálffy, representative of KDNP, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. Will the government continue to coordinate the firewood programme successfully? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor. (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.)
u2022-11-08-212	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The Russian-Ukrainian war and the failed sanctions in Brussels have led to an energy crisis in Europe. For decades, Europe's energy supply has not been as uncertain as it is now. Energy has become a full political and economic crisis and the support of several European governments has been shaken. For ordinary people, the chaos that is taking place in the energy market is already untraceable, despite the fact that everyone has tried to interpret the complex economic context, such as the extra-profitist, or the link between the electricity price and the gas price. But in the end, the same question always became: How can we heat? Are we going to be cold in the winter? This uncertainty must be protected in Szeged, as well as those living on sandbacks and all Hungarians. Dear Secretary of State, The government has been protecting the population in a unique way since 2013. This is the largest assistance to families of this kind throughout Europe. The government's aim has been and will continue to be to guarantee security of supply in the energy crisis and to keep retail energy prices low. In addition to the cost reduction, the firewood programme and the brown coal programme are also used to help families. The aim of the firewood programme and the brown coal programme is, on the one hand, to replace gas heating in your home and, on the other hand, to provide the winter energy needs for Hungarian families without firewood. Dear Secretary of State, Firewood can be purchased under the firewood programme with huge interest. State forestry must therefore be above-strength. On this basis, I ask the Honourable Secretary of State that the government continues to coordinate the firewood programme successfully. I look forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-08-213	Thank you very much, Congressman Béla Mihalffy. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Farkas.
u2022-11-08-214	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, As the Member said, there is an energy crisis in Europe, an energy crisis has been declared by the government in Hungary. Due to the negative effects of the conflict between Ukraine and Russia, energy prices have increased many times, unfortunately this is what we are experiencing. From the spring of 2022 following the outbreak of the armed conflict, demand for firewood has never been experienced before, in parallel with energy uncertainties. The primary objective of the government's firewood programme is to supply the rural population with a maximum fuel and a maximum price. The population that has used wood burning has already started to obtain winter fuel for the heating season in spring and summer, even for later seasons. As a result of the decrease in stocks and the increase in demand and production costs, the price of firewood also started to rise. The main advantage of the firewood programme is that the price of firewood available to public forestry companies has been fixed. At a fixed price you can buy 10 cubic metres of wood firewood for an average family house in case enough for heating. Experience has shown that the programme is being carried out in rural regions, where the inhabitants have been heated with wood. Although there have been some temporary shortages in some areas, where there is a high population, there is no tradition of heating with wood or low forest frying is also characteristic of the South Great Plain. To address this, the transfer of 23,500 cubic metres of timber from more forest-rich regions to the metropolitan and lowland regions started at the first stage of the group of companies. Overall, the supply of wood for the firewood programme by public forestry holdings is ongoing and, at the same time, the provision of demand. Please accept my reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[19.00]]
u2022-11-08-215	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Will the draft law on the publication of the Air Transport Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the State of Qatar, of the other part, be followed by a draft law which was adopted on 12 July 2022 by the President of the Republic for consideration? This is an incorrect legislative report and a proposal for amendment. Text of the Act sent to the President of the Republic for signature T/287/8. Letter from the President of the Republic No T/287/9. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate, so I will give the floor to Congressman Dávid Héjj, the rapporteur of the committee.
u2022-11-08-216	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 3 November 2022, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/287, which was sent back to Parliament for consideration by the President of the Republic, on the publication of the Air Transport Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the State of Qatar, of the other part. Bill No. 1. The amendment proposal and the report shall be adopted by the Committee in accordance with the House Rule 78. pursuant to Rule 35 of the Rules of Procedure, adopted by 35 votes in favour, no votes against, with 1 abstention. Dear House, The President of the Republic drew attention to the small but important shortcomings of the bill adopted by the Parliament on 22 July 2022, which unfortunately missed our attention here during the parliamentary debates. The President of the Republic drew the attention of the Parliament that the adopted bill does not comply with the requirement of Article Q (2) of the Fundamental Law to ensure consistency between Hungarian law and international law, as well as the factual situation concerning the provisional application in international law of Act L of 2005 on the procedure for international contracts and the parts of the Air Transport Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the State of Qatar, of the other part. To remedy these problems, the Legislative Committee has again discussed the returned bill and adopted an amendment proposal. That's Nstv. 11. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Treaty, an international contract or a specific part thereof may be applied on a provisional basis until its entry into force, in accordance with the provisions of the Treaty, if the body authorising the recognition of the compulsory effect of the contract approves the temporary application of the contract in the act of announcement. This is in line with Article 29 (3) of the Agreement, according to which the Parties may provisionally apply this Agreement from the date of its signature in accordance with their internal procedures and/or national legislation, as appropriate. That's Nstv. 11. The Commission's amendment also provides for the provisional application of the Agreement until the entry into force of the Agreement and for the determination of the duration of the provisional application. I therefore call for the support of my fellow Members to support the legislative Commission's amendment proposal in order to eliminate constitutional concerns so that the objectives set out in the bill submitted can be achieved as soon as possible in line with the consistency of Hungarian law and international law. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]] The Commission's amendment also provides for its provisional application until the entry into force of the Agreement and for determining the duration of provisional application. I therefore call for the support of my fellow Members to support the legislative Commission's amendment proposal in order to eliminate constitutional concerns so that the objectives set out in the bill submitted can be achieved as soon as possible in line with the consistency of Hungarian law and international law. Thank you very much for your attention. (Applause from the pro-government benches.)
u2022-11-08-217	Thank you very much, Congressman David. I would like to ask Deputy Minister Zsófia Koncz, who is sitting here, whether she wishes to speak now or later. [[For signal:]] Show your hands that later. Thank you. Dear Parliament, Representatives' speeches will follow in the time frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2022-11-08-218	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, This was discussed here in the summer as a short bill before the National Assembly. We agreed that air transport agreements were essential. In general, these are international treaties or various agreements where there is a much greater unity between the two sides of Parliament in horseshoes than other politicised or possibly policy proposals, since we all consider it important that air traffic continuity, tourism, the economy and trade continue to go on, especially in the post-Covid period, when air transport was significantly restricted and there was no opportunity for traders, businessmen or users of tourism to travel. We also said in the debate that Qatar was the focus of attention, because in a few days the World Football Championship will start in Qatar, so obviously the air traffic from Europe and elsewhere in the world will be significant in the country. I would also like to thank the President of the Republic for her thoroughness and for the work of her colleagues, as this is also a small aspect, but it also shows that our rule of law, our legal system, is working. The President of the Republic, looking through the law, has found a deficiency that we have not noticed here in the parliamentary debate. It is important that we do not violate the Fundamental Law in any way. Today's news is that the Constitutional Court has returned the bill sent to it for preliminary standard control, sent to it by our parliament. It is important that constitutional control is always included in our legal system, which is why I would also like to thank the Presidential Office for its work and the Committee on Legislative Affairs, who, with this minor amendment, will allow this bill to cease to conflict with our Fundamental Law. However, it is important that it comes into force as soon as possible, since these air transport assistance agreements are all very important in our relations with the European Union and in our bilateral relations, and we will therefore support the amended bill in the final vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-11-08-219	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. I would like to ask that someone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. As rapporteur, you have the floor, Deputy Minister Zsófia Koncz.
u2022-11-08-220	Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to begin by thanking the Committee on Legislative Affairs and joining my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacs, for the comments made by the President of the Republic. It should be noted that the amendment already complies with the comments made by the President of the Republic. In the previous debate on the law, we have already expressed our position, so I would like to ask all my fellow Members to support the adoption of the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-11-08-221	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister Zsófia Koncz, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall take place at our later meeting. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. First of all, I give the floor to Lóránt Keresztes, LMP, who will hold his post-scheduled speech with the title "Our City, Pécs.
u2022-11-08-222	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Indeed, after the agenda, I talk about the issues of Pécs, the problems of Pécs, but now this is only partly affecting my city. Basically, the person I'm going to talk about was a Pécs instructor, this attachment, but not because of the fact that he was a Pécs instructor, György Schadl, President of the Hungarian Faculty of Executives, who is now, we can say, in fact, under arrest for almost a year. [[19.10]] The fact is, on the prosecution's motion, as I said, a year ago, György Schadl was arrested in advance, and he was suspected of a very serious corruption charge by the prosecution. Similarly, the prosecution accused Paul Völner, former State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, former Deputy Minister. The facts in Hungary today are that, despite the extremely serious accusations against György Schadl, he has remained president of the Faculty of Executives of the Court until today, and Pál Völner has been able to practice as a lawyer until the last few days, and he is on parole, and he has not even been placed in pre-trial detention. So we can say that there is an infinitely outrageous situation in Hungary today. We can say that an important member of the bailiff's mafia can continue to be president of the Executive Faculty, an important public office, because Fidesz has defended him in the last year and Fidesz has defended him today. Today, the Parliament's Justice Committee discussed the proposal that I tabled, which was nothing more than that if someone is charged with such serious corruption and is under public prosecution, then it should not be able to continue to fill this important position, and there should be a legal possibility to replace it. The legislative environment is bad, and there is no possibility of that today. This proposal was not supported today by the representatives of Fidesz, so they defended György Schadl, defended a corrupt executive according to the D.A.'s office, and refused to let it be replaced. According to the prosecutor's office, György Schadl, President of the Faculty, established a corruption relationship with Pál Völner Fidesz, Parliamentary State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice before May 2018, who was later Deputy Minister, the most important confidant and deputy of Judit Varga. In the framework of this, György Schadl regularly provided cash to Pál Völner as an undue advantage, in this way in Hungarian: the corrupt executioner controlled the deputy justice minister with bribes, the second man of the Ministry of Justice. This shows how high corruption has reached the top of the Ministry of Justice in Hungary, to the top of the Ministry of Justice, whose main task and mission would otherwise be to pursue corruption. The Investigator's Attorney General's Office has proposed that György Schadl be given 10 years, Pál Völner 8 years; in the previous case 200 million, in the case of Völner 25 million fines, and in the case of 10 years of banning from public affairs. Nevertheless, I repeat, Fidesz has retained György Schadl in his position. We believe that, that such a person may be the President of the Faculty of Executives of the Court, he is seriously destroying public trust in justice in Hungary. And that we are not alone in this statement, I would like to quote Secretary of State Répássy, who, by the way, is the successor of Fidesz Fallen Secretary of State, Minister Judit Varga, who said in a debate in July that he could not bear the condition for such a person to fill this important public office. So Répássy also acknowledged that this was an untenable state, which is why I put forward, after the debate, the bill that the Justice Committee voted on today, and I repeat, it was voted against, so that this proposal was not included in the series of articles. I think that, with this outrageous decision, the representatives of Fidesz have proved today that, when they are talking about more effective action against corruption, they are nothing but empty speeches, they have no reason to act more effectively against corruption, and they have no intention of taking the basic steps that would in any way clarify the picture, and in this way would show that every action must have consequences. Right now, I repeat, Pál Völner is on the loose, and thanks to Fidesz, György Schadl continues to be the President of the Faculty of Executives of the Court, he remains in this important public-law position. We believe that the presumption of innocence is an important constitutional principle, but it should not extend to the position of such a serious accused person, and otherwise it would have been expected at least to be subject to the legal consideration of this important leading position, such as the judicial enforcement activity. György Schadl is already banned from doing so, but he continues to hold the important position that we believe is shameful and unacceptable, and I will therefore propose on the Legislative Committee that the proposal be put on the agenda after all. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your attention.
u2022-11-08-223	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Tünde Szabó, Ms Fidesz, applied for a speech on the agenda titled Dynamically Developing Nyíregyháza. You have the floor.
u2022-11-08-224	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, In my speech today, I would like to talk about the economic development zone in North-East Hungary, including the significant and dynamic results of Nyíregyháza so far. Unfortunately, since the pandemic, we have seen a number of factory closures worldwide, followed by a European recession, and it is therefore increasingly a valuable and important task to develop industrial parks, create jobs, create competitive economic growth and maintain it. This requires investments, so it is good news that Hungary has been able to break the record of the investments received again this year, as Hungary has received most of its investments this year. It is important that Nyíregyháza offers excellent space for expansion and development. The investments here are close to the European markets, the right workforce is available, the authorities are helpful, and the Hungarian Development Bank sees our city as a strategic partner. I am pleased to report that there has been an outstanding event recently in Nyíregyháza, as we have laid the foundation stone of Double Scoop, so that the largest investment in our city's history could start at HUF 300 billion. It is important to stress that this investment will create 1,200 new jobs in our city, which is another guarantee that we can maintain a strong area, a strong Hungary. To this I would also like to highlight the LEGO group, which recently celebrated the 90th anniversary of Nyíregyháza with a HUF 53 billion investment, as it decided to increase its production area by 50 percent. We can be proud that LEGO chose us out of one of the five factories in the world in 2014, and the expanded factory capacity also provides new jobs, a safe livelihood for people and families. Also recently, the largest investment in its existence was carried out by Color Pack in Nyíregyháza, from EUR 2.5 million, of which HUF 900 and HUF 400 million were won in the application of the economic and innovative operational programme. With this, they can increase their capacity by 30 percent, giving them a new opportunity to employ nearly 100 workers. Another good news is that we can also report that Electrolux is carrying out the largest investment in the company's history in Hungary in Nyíregyháza. Following a HUF 35 billion development, this refrigeration plant will be one of the most modern companies in the group. However, in addition to investments, development is constantly affecting other areas, since we are constantly renovating and building schools and kindergartens. In recent times, by number, we have renovated and built almost 40 kindergartens and schools. This is also important because the city needs to become rich with modern and valuable institutions. In terms of health care, I would like to point out that the nursing home is built in Nyíregyháza. The city's health system continues to grow with more than HUF 1 billion in investment. This fits with the series of developments that may have taken place over the past decade. Thanks to the government's 5 billion-dollar road development programme, there have been a number of road improvements in our city, and road construction and renovations are ongoing. Nyíregyháza's sports life has always been famous, which is why we have built 27 sports parks, and a number of large-scale sports investments have been made in recent years. The development of the region is well illustrated by a recent development by the Tokaj-Zemplén programme, which is based on the implementation of infrastructure in the settlements of the programme, which greatly facilitates everyday transport and improves quality of life for those living there. The county has an excellent university, thanks to the vocational training centre, more and more students and well-trained workers are helping to invest, and we are trying to create the best conditions for both transport and logistics and infrastructure conditions. [[19.20]] Our priority is industrial development and economic development, job creation, and I could tell you that I do not have time. So I would like to thank everyone who has contributed to these improvements, and we would like to continue to do so so so that we can proceed on a successful path. Thank you very much.
u2022-11-08-225	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Tünde Szabó. What's happening in Újpesten? Mr László Varju, representative of DK, asked to speak after the agenda with a title. You have the floor.
u2022-11-08-226	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, I would like to speak on important matters for Újpest. Péter Takács, Secretary of State for Health, said at a professional conference in June that the government had its own jurisdiction over local government clinics. I could say that this is a party-state thief's pace, which the Fidesz is doing on this subject again, which has worked well so far. Please consider my sentences as a warning before the law is passed. So far, the municipalities have provided renovation and development resources to the specialist clinics. Billions were spent to improve specialist care, and with nationalisation, municipalities are losing new assets. With this idea of nationalising clinics, they will certainly further undermine the quality of health care. The measure violates the interests of patients and healthcare workers because it represents a further withdrawal from health care. So far, we have seen that the state has not been a good owner of the previously received clinics: investments have been lagging behind, they have not been able to adapt to local needs and others have been closed anyway. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that nationalisation is in conflict with the agreement between the capital and the government on the development of health institutions in Budapest. These additional resources were requested for the benefit of the Budapest people, not for the government to take away and then to dismantle the local government clinics. As a representative of Újpest and Angelland, I find this pace which you dictate outrageously unacceptable. Health is clearly not important to you. Let's just look at the hospitals they're maintaining, the condition they're in. Now we are being taken away from this opportunity again without any agreement. Several times you have demonstrated that you are not interested in the health and well-being of the people of Újpest, the angelland, but only about how they can cause political, moral harm to the municipality, the people of the district. I strongly protest that the government wants to einstand the well-functioning Újpest specialization institute, where we have been thinking about continuous development, we have moved from floor to floor on seven floors in renovation and development. Újpest supports the clinic with HUF 300 million per year to ensure that there are no complaints about a medical or nurse shortage. So we were able to reduce the number of people in line, start new health services, make improvements. In the interests of the Újpestians, we have proposed not only this, but also the construction of the hospital, and even the municipality has prepared a preliminary study in order that the government, the Ministry, might hear it and want to help, understand that it is important for us to do so in order to preserve the health of people. To this end, at the beginning of summer, I also made a proposal for a budgetary amendment, but we have seen what the consequences of this have been here in the Committee on Budgets. I could list a number of developments that have taken place: starting from the setting up of automatic customer reception columns, the cost of medical equipment equipped with new devices, modern technology, the expansion of the equipment park, a lack of angiology and diabetes care has been launched for the residents of the district, which also affects other districts. Yet, in the end, I must draw attention to the next problem. Tungsram's bankruptcy proceedings with creditors were unsuccessful, and the company will be wound up. This was initiated by a state organization called Eximbank. Unacceptable! Workers are on the verge of making a living, all those who, by the way, persisted until the bankruptcy process reached its point. Of these, the Tungsramos in Budapest are in the most difficult situation, because they have been in the so-called job hours for three months, which means an income of 130 thousand forints a month, and this is unacceptable in the current inflation that you have caused. So the factory unit in Újpest is affected the worst. For this reason, I have to speak in another way, and I will do so. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you very much. [[Andrea Hegedüs and Zoltán Varga applaud.]]
u2022-11-08-227	Thank you very much, Congressman Varju. After the state, does Debrecen also withdraw from social care? It's a shame! Mr Zoltán Varga, representative of DK, asked to speak after the agenda. You have the floor.
u2022-11-08-228	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Although we see that the government and its lackey media, the propaganda channels, say the opposite by a thousand, I must say, and we can sense that it is right to be shocked, that everyone is upset, because the government's base and unscrupulous move is to make the law simply to leave the social care system. While, of course, taxes, VAT, social contributions, social and pension contributions are collected by the state with the highest precision and, of course, with the usual rigour on small people and businesses, it is the law that he does not actually have anything to do with social care. What's the point of this proposal? Take care of the casualties of the Orbán crisis primarily themselves, which is, let's face it, some surreal and crazy joke category, because the person who needs care is doing this precisely because he is turning to someone else because he is unable to solve the serious problems that fall on him. If only the Orbán regime could rule out the fact that the appendectomy must be done by everyone themselves, if possible, without anesthesia and assistance, why did it get sick? Care should be taken care of by your family, those who, according to statistics and experience, are or may be in as much trouble as the fallen family member, if not more. What else does the law say? Take care of the charitable organizations. While we are well aware, of course, that with bureaucratic means, government instigation, but if not otherwise, the Orbáns have a decade-long war against civil organizations, including charities. Somewhere in the middle of the line, towards the end of the line, the municipalities rise up, and the line, at the end of the list, is the state itself. At the end of the monstrous and elusive, evil and inhumane list is the state itself, the government as a foggy and inaccessible helper; I suppose the paper can carry everything on a basis, or because they have been ashamed to leave it completely off this list. And, of course, we know that self-help, the help of family, charitable and civil society organisations are pretty much everyone's idea, we know what that means. These organizations, the family, help as long as they can, but this is usually not enough, because we see these organizations, they have actually reached the limit of their ability many times, in many cases it is almost impossible to expect more from them. What about the municipalities? After all, they know very well who are sitting here in the legislature even against me, that local governments have been killed in a bestial way by the Orbán course for years. At present, of course, thanks to the Orbán system, the social, social, energy and economic crisis caused by the government, these municipalities are struggling in vain for their lives, running for their survival, I must add: hopelessly. Of course, it must be said, and it must not be concealed, that it is, however, a great responsibility, a burden on the municipalities and their leaders for their ability, their ability, their intention to have those who, after a hard life worked down, need help now, need help, do not let go of their hands, even those who are left or allowed to freeze by the Orbán government. [[19.30]] It is a matter of honor, it is a question of humanity, it is a question of solidarity: to help, to be in solidarity with those who are in need. And, unfortunately, I must say, as Debrecen, I am ashamed of myself; unfortunately, the arrogant and serendipity of the city of Debrecen has proved to me that they are loyal minions of Orbán. While the majority in Orbán presented one of the most horrific messages to Parliament, Debrecen's fidesz governors became more orbane than Orbán, as the Fidesz majority at the Debrecen General Assembly decided in an inhumane manner to close the ranks of social institutions, condemning those who were provided and elderly to death by loneliness, terrible winters, and by doing so, to infirmity. A lot of people can ask you if it's good, but then what's the cure for that? It's nothing more than a shadow government led to Dobrev Klára and Dobrev Klára. We will be able to find a solution to this and prove that social care exists not only in the municipalities but also in the government. Thank you very much. [[Andrea Hegedüs applauds.]]
u2022-11-08-229	Thank you very much, Congressman. Miskolc cannot build a future that does not appreciate and appreciate his past, and Mrs. Andrea Hegedüs, representative of DK, applied to the post-meeting address "Déryné's sweet burden" on the agenda. You have the floor.
u2022-11-08-230	Dear House, Mr President, The most outstanding building on the main street of Miskolc, with its patina arched arcade and firehouse, with its watch is the church of theatre: the National Theatre of Miskolc. For a month he remembered the greatest actress of his time, Róza Déryné Széppataki, who moved to a higher stage 150 years ago. He's an integral part of the city's past, who has always claimed to be a miskolc. He's an emblematic figure of the city's past. At one time Mrs. Déry had a severe cold after her performance in Miskolc, in snowfall. As a result, the citizens of Miskolc opened a wallet and built the country's first stone theatre in 1823, which the entire Hungarian nation has been proud of ever since. While this year was a tribute to the death of the Hungarian muse, next year will raise a symbolic hat in front of the theatre, as it jubilates: it celebrates an anniversary of two hundred years. It is the home of many legends, and it is a worthy workplace for talented actors. But how long can Déryné, Latabar, Latinovits, Ruttkai, Somlay, Sulyok, Őzeze, Bilichi, Mezey, Agárdy, Bessenyei, Galambos, Nagy, Stankay, Blaskó, Tímár, Igo, Mihályi, Gáspár, Greek, Mahr, Harsanyi, Fandl be born? The call by Director Attila Béres, which does not bring stage tears to our eyes, but real ones. I quote his words:,, Two hundred years: how much applause, laughter, tears, how many debates excite questions, thought, how many souls, how much beauty, how much pain, how much catharsis! Locking up is the easiest thing. But the theater wants to stay open. Theater in a city means present and hope. With the end of the theater, hope in the city will cease. The country's first stone theatre cannot celebrate its 200th anniversary behind closed doors without an audience. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, It's heartbreaking that there's a lack of hope, a lack of hope going through the walls. There's nothing on the stage. Actors do their job, they play, they comedy, they move our laughing muscles, or they grab on to our souls. In fact, there are times when they hold a mirror for us, for people and for the government, if necessary. Now, yes, that's what we need. The government should look in the mirror at where it has put the altar of culture and art. They won't be able to celebrate the long-awaited birthday. Such a round anniversary will not be for another hundred years. What will we leave behind because of the failed policy of the current government for posterity? At one time we will find the digital newspapers in it:,, The Miskolc National Theatre celebrated its two century-old birthday in a tight, poor frame, because in 2022 there was a helpless government of the country, who did not appreciate its actors, teachers or students. Yes, there is a Fidesz government that acts professionally and the title character of his play Molière: The Harpagon might envy his stinginess. It's tighter than cheaper. He's handing it out to you, looting everyone else. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, The Habsburg government was also tight when the country needed a Hungarian-language stone theatre, but now we have no foreign power. We have a Hungarian government, but what's it like? I have Fidesz-KDNP sovereignty, strong Russian influence. Therefore, culture cannot be built, and therefore it cannot be taught or receive decent health care, which is why people in need of social care must ultimately take care of themselves instead of the state. Dear Fidesz-KDNP Government, The theater needs money. Give it to me! Don't take advantage of the attempts of the actors in Miskolc with their perseverance and vocation. They're ready to play in the dim light, just like our teachers-students learn and teach in fur. They're doing their job at the cost of sacrifice. Your job, on the other hand, is to work for them, to finally make prudent decisions and to raise the money needed to function and celebrate. Serve me with humility. At last serve the Hungarian national culture and sacrifice so that the theatre and the theatre-loving audience in Miskolc can celebrate in a worthy manner! Thank you very much. [[Zoltán Varga applauds.]]
u2022-11-08-231	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Member Sándor Bodó, representative of Fidesz, also applied for a post- Agenda address:. The Government supports the development of replacement education. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-11-08-232	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I think that, behind the success of a nation, we must always look for areas where it can be lasting, and whether it is economic achievement, whether in culture or in sport or in science, it is all very important for the nation to be able to look at these achievements as an example for the next generation. I think this is important, as I have said, in this difficult time, when we see there is a war in Europe, economic sanctions make our daily lives difficult, but we also need to see, as in a thousand years, that the way out of difficulties must not be shaped in hand-wringing and sniveling, but in doing. In the area of wanting to do, I think that the civilian government has made a very lasting contribution in recent years, and there are a number of examples in our constituency that in the field of sport and re-sports there have been improvements, programmes that are meant to ensure that a healthy generation can continue to work. I am thinking about the construction of gymnasiums, the construction of outdoor gym parks, and I am also thinking about a concrete development that will take place in Bishop's Lady, the implementation of a wrestling hall. The history and past of the wrestling sport, I think, does not need to be presented in this House, because it has played a significant role in the ancient Olympics, and it is indeed a noble, masculine competition, which is being pursued by ladies. Of course, there have been many forms of this, there have been many variations over the years, but the basic values have always remained, and they have rightly taken their role in the Hungarian sports culture as well. In this sport, too, many rural competitors, even rural competitors from our region, have achieved very significant successes in the Olympics, world championships, European championships, and in order for these very excellent people to appear as role models in front of us right now, there is a need for sacrifice-reinforcing. [[19.40]] Regeneration training is a Sisifian work, as many people start learning the basics of a particular sport, but few get to the top of the podium. But that's basically not a problem. The most important thing is that sport has the right role to play in children's lives and lives, and in this very world, when there are so many other, sometimes even negative alternatives, it is important to stress that sport should always be part of life planning, daily work schedules, timetables and school schedules. In this activity, the Püspökladány Heavy Athletic Association performs exemplary work, and in order to make this work even more effective, there is a need for tangible improvements. Basically, the association is training replacements, and I can say that it is probably the most effective in all of Hajdú-Bihar County. Not only the Bishop's Lady, but also the children living in the area go to practice and compete in the colours of the association, so it really does play a regional role. What hindered the work so far, in addition to the excellent results, evidently consisted of training in a hall, a sports hall, where representatives of other sports were included. This is completely understandable and correct, but it was necessary to create, with today's overcrowded agenda for our children, the conditions for serving them at any time. Therefore, thanks to the Government of Hungary, a two-carpet sports hall with permanent opening hours started or soon begins its activities, which really offers training opportunities that these children, as I mentioned, can get training according to their daily working schedule and schedule. The facility is built in the centre of Püspökladány on more than 460 square meters next to the sports hall in the city, and Hungary's Government has provided more than 400 million forints of support so that this replacement facility will be able to operate smoothly. We are living the last weeks and months of construction, and I hope that soon this facility will be able to open its doors and doors, which are suitable not only for training, but also for international competitions. I think that, in these difficult times, we should appreciate all such efforts, because this is the most effective way out of the crisis if we see and can work with worthy goals. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2022-11-08-233	Thank you very much, Congressman Sándor Bodo. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. I bid you a restful good night, and the sitting day is closed.
