u2018-06-26-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 2nd day of the Second Summer Special Meeting of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that at the meeting, Attila Gelencsér and István Szávay will help me. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that there has been a motion to suspend the immunity of Mr Sándor Burány, Parliamentary Representative KSB-671/2018/3. I'm on a case against the Attorney General. The Speaker of Parliament has issued this to the immunity committee for examination. Dear Parliament, The pre-meeting speeches will follow. Mr Sándor Székely, Member of the Democratic Coalition, spoke before the agenda: "We are running out. " You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-06-26-1	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members of the Parliament who rise early. * Still looking from a height / The words written by Ady for more than a hundred years now would have been more relevant than those of your Werbőczi-gods/Fold them. Today, you are my fellow members of the Government. According to OECD data, almost one million Hungarians have undertaken work abroad, and the emigration has clearly accelerated after entering the Fidesz government, tens of thousands of students migrated from Hungary every year, not only half of university students believe that after graduation they will not stay in Hungary, but a similar rate of students preparing for graduation now plans to leave this country. Definitely a clever idea for the Fidesz government to fight unemployment by driving a large part of the working population out of the country. Of course, unemployment has decreased, which has raised wages and public finances' tax and contribution revenues. Here, I would like to stop a little bit, but this inflated the wages, which means that the average people in Hungary can earn up to HUF 200,000 net. This means that there are some people who earn a lot more, and there are very, very many who make a lot less. 200,000 forints is less than 600 euros. That's how much a Hungarian average citizen has to make a living if he lives alone. By comparison: In Budapest you can rent a flat for 150 thousand forints today. We all know what is going on with housing loans and all the other prices that are actually of Western European quality. This is the enormous wage increase your government has made in the last eight years. Once again, 600 euros is the average Hungarian wage. So, they pushed the bike a little overboard, as Minister Balog would say. As early as 2015, there was a 35 000 shortage in the labour market, and this year it increased to 90,000. And this untenable condition was criticized the other day by a person whose loyalty to Fidesz was difficult to question. László Parragh, president of the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, seems to have realized that without an employee, the life of the employer is quite difficult, so he went through a press conference on the government's employment and economic policy. Today, every profession is a shortage profession, stated, adding that it hopes that growth of 4 percent of GDP could melt down to half if the government does not do something to reduce the labour shortage. White workers with Christian roots have run out, he added, indicating that labour shortages are even exacerbated by restrictions on immigration. Employers would therefore apply non-Christian and non-white workers to alleviate labour shortages, but they cannot do so because of the government's immigration policy. If you come to Hungary, you can't take the work of the Hungarians, the government has announced a few years ago, which means you can't come to Hungary at all, even if you are replacing the labour force driven away by the government. The cowardly, Fidesz-like president of the Chamber dared to say all this in such a racist and exclusional sentence is hardly admirable. József Pálinkás, president of the National Research, Development and Innovation Office, who was appointed by Fidesz, and who was former Minister of Orbán, was fired because he said a few good words about the best university in the country, the CEU, which ended up in the crossroads of Orbán's ideologically motivated attacks. Tamás Rudas, director of the Research Centre for Social Sciences of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, defended his colleagues from the attacks of the Watcher, but he was obliged to offer that 40 percent of the research topics of the Institute will be chosen according to the taste of the government in the future. Szilveszter Ókovács, the Opera House, also appointed Fidesz to protect its director general, dared to take the highly successful musical Billy Elliot off the show with his propaganda slogan called the government daily. In view of the increasing ideological terror of Fidesz, why should it be surprising that Parragh dared to convey the message entrusted to him by employers only in such a covert form, that it would be good if the government's leadership of the criminal organisation called the national cooperation system would sometimes govern itself for some reason. Otherwise, the country will slowly be empty, once again in Ady's words:. The Hungarians will run out, / as if they weren't. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Thank you so much for listening.
u2018-06-26-2	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2018-06-26-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, What we have heard from you in the past few minutes is neither factually correct nor correct; therefore, the conclusions are not correct, and you are fundamentally untrue in this matter. You spoke on behalf of the faction leader of which said in front of the entire Hungarian public that it was possible to leave, and then you stand up here and tell us why so many people have left, while, by the way, the data you have told us, of course, do not hold up. You know, there are international statements about this, international statistics about what percentage of the population is working abroad from which country. This is 6 percent in Hungary, 17.5 in Romania, 6.3 in Slovakia, 8.8 in the Czech Republic, 11.5 in Poland, 16.5 in Bulgaria, 10.9, in Serbia 43 in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 20.4 in Croatia, 6.8 in Slovenia, but much higher than the Hungarian 6.0 in Slovenia, the Baltic states are 15-19 percent, Switzerland 8 percent, Austria 6.7, Ireland 18.8, but even the British 7.6 is high compared to the Hungarian 6.0. Honourable Congressman, This may give us a more realistic picture of how many people work abroad in some countries of Europe. We want to create life opportunities for all young Hungarians here, so we reduce taxes, so we increase salaries and therefore support home creation. On the other hand, you have done the opposite of all of them, since you have taken a month's wages from every Hungarian worker in the public sector. Now you're short on the fact that in one year Hungarian wages have only increased by 10 or 12 percent, and this is not real. Compared to that, you took a month's wages from everyone. You didn't give us a family home-building discount or soccer discount, which was at the time, but you told everyone that we would cancel the forint loans with interest rate subsidies, and that everyone should choose a currency loan instead, which led to total financial inability a few years later, and you would then talk about home-building or then talk about wages. We, for our part, have reduced personal income tax for all Hungarians. And for those who support others from their own salary, we have radically reduced the public space that they have to pay, whether in taxes or in contributions. Every year, the amount of money that Hungarian families can use every month is growing. They now have an average annual discount of 253 thousand forints. That's how much money the government doesn't take away, but leaves with the Hungarian families. [[8.10]] You also had a tax reduction programme, a five-year tax reduction programme was announced in 2006, which I recall may have lived five months because it was announced before the election and withdrawn after the election. That's all your credibility was, it was only on the shelf for a shorter period of time than long-term milk, because the moment they got on the wheel, they took away all their discounts. As regards higher education, honourable Member, what have Hungarian universities received from you? PPP-kon-structures in their necks, some of which this government has been able to replace from many, tens of billions of forints, but it has made it impossible for universities to manage for years it is a PPP structure which is extremely detrimental to universities and which guarantees extra profit to private investors, with which you sprinkled it, or rather I would say that the entire Hungarian higher education has been bombed and the possibility of development has been cut off for nearly a decade. And now you are not worried about Hungarian universities, you are speaking only for the university of György Soros, just like your other opposition fellow yesterday. Only and only for everyone, the Soros University is important, the Soros University matters. This is no wonder, since your party did nothing but collect signatures alongside the Soros plan, since in November 2015 DK started collecting signatures alongside the quota. You, who say to the young Hungarians, more specifically your party president Ferenc Gyurcsány, say that you can leave here, collect signatures that, on a compulsory quota basis, illegal immigrants from different remote countries can be forced to move to Hungary, whether by force or artificially. You, who reject the dual citizenship and voting rights of Hungarians across borders, would make it mandatory to install people on Hungary according to quota. This is confusing, on the one hand, and on the other hand I say that it is an extremely dangerous plan for the future of Hungary, so we hope that DK will never have the opportunity to go to government again, to send young Hungarians abroad, to reject Hungarians across the border, or to relocate illegal immigrants from Africa and the Middle East by quotas. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-26-4	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Member of the MSZP Group, asked for a pre-meeting address with the title of tens of thousands of people. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2018-06-26-5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear fellow Members, The UN General Assembly decided in its resolution of 20 December 2002 that 23 June was the day of civil servants worldwide. On the other hand, it is important to remember the situation of Hungarian civil servants. The unfortunate result of the government's work in recent years is that the situation of public sector workers is deteriorating year after year. Working conditions and conditions are deteriorating, their pay system is deteriorating, and next year even a significant part of their cafeteria benefits will be lost by the government, which has remained gross forints 200,000 since 2011. The salary of civil servants has been unchanged for ten years, HUF 38 650. For five to six years, the multipliers of the civil servant pay table have not changed, i.e. there has not been a significant increase in wages in this area in long-term years. In recent years, the Orbán governments have also destroyed the former uniform public wage systems. There are special rules for wage increases in health care, law enforcement, defence and education. However, the government looks at the rest of the sector as stepchildren, such as public collections or local government workers' wages, as compared to the above mentioned colleagues, has not changed to a very small extent. In the last six to seven years, none of the Orbán governments have managed to eliminate wage compensation for public sector employees. While HUF 89.5 billion has been earmarked for public sector wage compensation in the 2013 budget, some improvements can be seen, but only HUF 16.7 billion is still planned for wage compensation in the 2019 central budget. At the everyday level, this means that even next year, the government will spend HUF 16.7 billion on its own employees, those whose wages are still below the guaranteed minimum wage. This is a very sad part of it and it is a stain on the Hungarian government and the current administration. It is outrageous that tens of thousands of people still work in the public sector without even earning the statutory minimum wage by working eight hours a day. In the last eight to nine years, civil servants have had to experience a number of disadvantages and experience, but no meaningful government measures have ever been taken to improve their situation. I have to say, however, that there are also tens of thousands of civil servants who work in such a way that they have been sent away from work and then returned to the same area of work for public workers, for the same work, of course, for civil servants. for wages. Péter Boros, President of the Public Officials and Public Service Workers' Union, reported at the end of 2017 that the local governments would be left in a row by graduate workers because of insufficient, humiliatingly low wages, and due to the shortage of professionals, the municipalities would no longer be able to carry out the tasks assigned to them by law. The shortage of professionals endangers the basic institutions of democracy, so they expected the government to pay around 700,000 local government workers who have not received a salary increase for ten years. While the government is constantly pressuring the competition sector with the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage to raise wages as high as possible, the Hungarian state as an employer does not do a fraction of this in order to clarify the wage situation of its employees. Once again, the government promises in the 2019 budget, but we still do not see any real steps to ensure that public servants are paid. We have only one hope that there will be municipal elections in 2019, and that the campaign may now be somewhat beneficial for civil servants after ten years. In the public sector, too, actions must guarantee the personal conditions of a balanced public service mission, bearing in mind the satisfaction of citizens and the competitiveness of the economy. I think that no government can give up 700,000 employees. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-06-26-6	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Sándor Bodó, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-06-26-7	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The government can take direct wage measures in the public sector under its own responsibility, and contrary to your claim, I must say that there has been substantial wage measures in the previous years. Since 2013, the average real demand for public sector workers has been steadily increasing, which goes beyond the competition sector. So we're in conflict here, too. The government does not carry out wage increases in the public sector in general, but in relation to a career model, indicating, in fact, a continuous, lasting commitment and predictability. Allow me a few examples, since our opinion is very realistic: in the social sector, children with a higher education qualification of more than 20 percent in 2014-15, children with a higher education degree in crèches received a salary increase of 30-40 percent in 2016 and 12 percent in early 2017. This was also a controversial topic, but the government did not forget those who have secondary education and are also doing important work in the sector. The majority of workers in the sector were indeed affected by a significant increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage in 2017. The next wage arrangement covered those in the sector who were not or were only disproportionately affected by the increase in the minimum wage or the guaranteed minimum wage for 2017, i.e. the government seemed to have paid constant attention to this sector. It is clear that they are not forgotten, so the government is committed financially and morally to appreciate this very, very hard work they are doing in this sector. But to avoid being one-sided, I would also like to set some examples of other areas of the public sector in the area of wage measures. The teaching career model introduced in 2013, which resulted in a 50 percent average wage increase over five years, and the career models launched from 1 July 2015 in law enforcement and also reported a 50 percent wage increase for soldiers. [[8.20]] Higher education educators and academic researchers have been raised from 2016 to 25 per cent in three years. There has also been a wage increase for law enforcement staff, with a total increase of 25 per cent since 2012. With the launch of the state officials' careers, from 1 July 2016, they received a 35 percent wage increase directly with customers in district offices, and from January 17 they received a 25 percent wage increase in county government offices. The careers launched at the National Tax and Customs Office in 2016 were 50 percent in three years, 15 percent in the cultural sector from the beginning of 17 and 10 percent in public education. This was also a sensitive point before, and we managed to solve it. The wages of public servants employed on water boards increased by 15 percent from 1 September 2017 and another 15 percent increase was made from 1 January 2017. It is therefore important to note that the government pays particular attention to civil servants, including those where it has already been achieved according to the performance of the economy, to start these wage increases and career models, and obviously also to those who have not received a wage increase. Negotiations are currently taking place within the framework of the National Council for Civil Service Interests, and I have to say that there are visible signs in this year's 2019 budget that the government is paying attention to civil servants. In fact, what I could suggest to you about this comment is that you read carefully the budget for next year and, if possible, support it, which will also help public service workers. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-26-8	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Member of the LMP Group, also spoke before the agenda, with the title of cities for sale, collapsing public services. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-06-26-9	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would particularly like to welcome the ministers of state present in the early hour. I trust that they are present in such great numbers to give a meaningful answer to our suggestions. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's why we're always here!]] Before I begin my speech before the agenda, I must respond to Mr Rétvári's speech, here he made very serious statements regarding the emigration. We can already see that when the opposition confronts the government with the serious tragedy that the current level of emigration represents for the nation, the typical answer is that everything is okay, because there is a common European labour market or that there are countries where migration is even greater. I find it quite amazing that, in fact, the government feels that everything is okay, nothing needs to be done. I myself am a Pécsian, so let me give you this many examples - 13,000 left Pécs in 10 years. It doesn't comfort me that there may have been an EU city with greater population losses. We believe that this is the greatest tragedy of our nation and the most important task is to face it. I am sorry to see and experience that the government that calls itself a national does not want to deal with this issue in substance. Turning to my speech before today's agenda, I would also like to address systemic problems that have not been addressed by the current and previous governments. These are issues that cannot be resolved without delay, so these problems are specifically on our fingernails. What am I talking about? On the one hand, the re-indebtedness of cities. You talked a lot about the state debt transfer, but you don't really say that these cities are once again indebted, precisely because the resources needed to carry out the tasks are not available. It is a very important problem that the provision of the most important public services is also being put at risk, so the provision of these public services over a decade's period of time I am thinking of Community transport, especially in rural areas and water utilities. Let's see what I'm talking about. In many rural cities, the cities themselves organize community transport with their own service company, that's perfectly all right. We believe that public transport is an important public service which the local government must be involved in providing and organizing, and that local communities should be involved. At the same time, the financing of these municipalities for the provision of tasks, the access to resources, loss compensation, price supplement, let us say, is completely uncertain. Therefore, the level of public transport in rural cities is constantly and noticeably decreasing, and it has already been mentioned that these municipalities are losing their company and nationalising these municipal companies. Obviously, we would disagree with this; this would be a very serious decision, but the most serious problem is that the quality of the public service is constantly deteriorating, causing serious social, economic and otherwise environmental problems in these cities, affecting hundreds of thousands of people or even millions of people in rural areas. Another of these ticking bombs, a system problem, is the lack of resources for the supply and maintenance of water utilities. I asked several questions as a local government representative in Pécs at the time, and the government could not outline any meaningful answers, ideas or ideas about how they intend to compensate for the shortage of thousands of billion forints over the 15-year horizon. You may also know that in the case of the water utility service, the person responsible for the care must develop a 15-year rolling development plan with an annual update, showing the most important maintenance and replacement needs and indicating the resources needed to carry out these tasks. If you look at the summation of these from the profession, you can hear signals about their aggregation - then we have information that thousands of billions of forints are missing for 15 years to make the most important public service work. There are also problems that, if these municipalities are not aware of this and this applies not only to the municipalities, but also to the public service providers to carry out these appropriate preventive maintenance, the provision of the necessary replacement work at later times will require much more resources to be involved. I am very confident that one of the state ministers present here can give a meaningful answer to this problem, what the government is planning to solve, because I am saddened to see that there are no resources available to resolve these issues, at least to resolve them pro rata to time or to start them in the budget presented. So I'm afraid the government will continue to think that it's enough to stick their heads in the sand, and that the cities will deal with it in some way. But I have bad news, despite the fact that the pro-government mayors of rural cities dare not ask you questions, dare not talk about these issues, these are questions, and if we do not face them, these public services will collapse in a multi-annual or medium-term perspective. Thank you in advance for the meaningful answers. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-06-26-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. Before I give Mr Pogácsás the opportunity to reply, I must inform Mr. Congressman that he does not deviate from the agenda. The problem is not that you would not receive an authentic reply from the Secretary of State to whom the first part of your speech was addressed, but you have no opportunity to speak. So you should be kind to Mr Secretary of State on this matter before the next agenda, and you will obviously receive a meaningful reply. As a beginner, I'd like to inform you that we'll stick to your pre-meeting address. Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás wishes to respond.
u2018-06-26-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, let me inform you that you will be able to find the channels through which you send your opinion and suggestions to the government by requesting and consulting both the mayors of cities with county rights and the mayor of any other settlements. The national council of local authorities, in which all local government interest associations are present, is a member, and it meets several times a year, where local government representatives, if any, even with representatives of a policy or profession, consult with local government representatives, and say here, they can comment on all the comments they make. Your speech and your thoughts before the agenda are about the indebtedness of the municipalities. I must inform you that the municipalities are not indebted to the current municipal funding system. It is true that, before 2010, the municipalities were indebted by the withdrawal of very large operating grants and by the uncovered transfer of tasks, the State Audit Office found in 2008 that there was a financing deficit of some HUF 1700-1800 billion in the municipalities due to the fact that the tasks of the municipalities had been grouped in previous years. It is true that the municipalities made up part of this deficit out of a loss of assets, other part of borrowing, in many cases from the taking up of operational loans, but after 2010, this debt was taken over entirely by the government, regardless of the type of loan the municipalities took out. [[8.30]] After that, local government funding was also transformed by the government. The task-based funding ensures that the tasks entrusted by the State to the municipalities and the municipalities are able to carry out their own tasks with a zero budget. Redebtedness would also be hampered by such a need. I would add that borrowing is not a sin in itself, and that the municipalities are also using borrowing on a case-by-case basis, as it may be necessary to borrow for improvements, but in any case we are looking at whether guarantees for repayment of credit are in place, subject to government authorisation. Unindebted municipalities, 1172 such municipalities, were mostly small municipalities, after being left out of debt consolidation and apparently lost development resources, so they received development aid worth HUF 45 billion. With regard to Community transport, I would like to inform the honourable Member that local authorities have the opportunity to apply for funding in relation to Community transport and to any operational problems at all. It includes the fact that there are five cities with county rights from a large number of rural cities that provide this service with their own transport companies. The generalization is far from true that these are decaying or poorly functioning public transports, whether in Miskolc, Kaposvár, Debrecen or Szeged, the municipalities maintain a very good level of public transport. They have made significant improvements, operate with a modern fleet of vehicles, and, for example, they have been able to move forward with tenders co-financed by the European Union and Hungary, as well as with the renovation of modern electric transport. In the case of Kaposvár, for example, they were able to replace the bus park in its entirety and operate with a brand new bus park. It is not true, therefore, that cities which operate public transport themselves would have an operational problem, or that public transport, which they provide, would be of poor quality and can even continuously improve its quality. In the case of water utilities, one of the most important objectives of the service and operation of water utilities in Hungary was to create realistic public utility charges that could be paid by citizens, and to cut all the wild drivings from the water utility operation that would result in extra profit and bring this profit out of the country. This has been successfully resolved, and we will ensure that the municipalities can continue to operate this sector. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-26-12	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mr Ander Balázs, Jobbik Group, spoke with the title of insufficient education. I'll give you the floor in five minutes.
u2018-06-26-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The outstanding historian Konrád Solomon, who I especially admire, said in an article several years ago: . The Hungarian school system has collapsed, respect for isolated exceptions and teachers who want to endure in impossible circumstances. It collapsed because schools are largely completed or abandoned by the masses of uneducated and uneducated young people, who are not fit to work and are not willing to comply with the most basic rules of social co-existence. I do not want to insist on the mantra "The Finnish Education System" for its own sake, because I would like to take a special look at what it would do, let us say, if the Finnish education system suddenly had to develop hundreds of thousands of disadvantaged students, educate or integrate them in a differentiated way, and even socialise them at the most elementary level. However, I would add that Finland was also a poor beggar state at a time when, for example, during the great famine of 1867, 15 percent of society was destroyed and XX. In the middle of the century, at least as many people worked in the not very profitable agricultural sector as in Hungary. So it is based on the fact that perhaps it was the resources spent on education as the main human capital system that raised the economy and society of their country. So Finnish education was good not because there was a rich, strong state, but because the Finnish state was rich because it was good education, they spent a lot of money on it, and it is true even for many other countries. However, the lack of recognition of this by the Fidesz government will be discussed in the budgetary debate. But let's get back to the data. I can mention the shockingly bad results of the boring PISA 2015 survey, which shows that a quarter of our 15-year-olds are virtually functional illiterate, so that XXI is incompetent. For work according to the requirements of the century. And so many trenchside workers will not be needed by the economy. And I could also refer to national competence measurements, which show that the results of the 10th grade secondary school students are worse than those of the 6th grade children. The question is how, with such a level of knowledge, you can become a master of the learned profession and prepare yourself for the challenges of lifelong learning. Obviously not, Mr. Secretary of State. Education is the main tool for reducing social inequalities in developed societies, but in our society, it is being cut off by incredibly extreme selectivity. But there is no reassuring answer to what will happen to the growing number of underage school leavers who leave the school world without having acquired a profession, and often cannot spell their names correctly, with a national share of 12.5 and 20 percent in the north-east-Hungary region. In this context, without political taboos, but in a very calm and completely honest way, we should finally talk about what future lies ahead of those peripheries, which slowly spanning areas of county, where many have not heard the sentiment of giving birth to poverty without school, young people, is not a cultural right and virtue. Personally, I am not one of those who forget reality and proclaim that the only way to catch up is to give a gender degree in the hands of, say, Genifer Kolompár or József Kalányos. However, I would certainly like to know how to avoid ever-increasing downslides and collapses without strengthening vocational education and training that has become pedagogical since basic education and the change of regime. From the perspective of the near future, social peace, it does not matter how many untrained people the country has to support. To change, eliminate and abandon self-segregating anti-culture of opt-out requires a tremendous individual effort and, if necessary, state coercion. But we also need effective education, the most secure basis of which is an accessible vision for students, a feasible perspective, and financially, morally respected teachers. This is the foundation of all educational reforms. It's a question of how to secure it. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-26-14	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said. I think that there will be a point on which you will give a definite answer, Mr Secretary, and I do not wish to deal with the issue of Gypsy in detail. [[Ander Balázs: I didn't say a word.]]
u2018-06-26-15	So you know what we're thinking, honourable Member, and you said it on purpose. Honourable Congressman, Your speech is certainly an example of how many people in Hungary can be insulted and insulted. You insulted 1.2 million Hungarian students with your own speech; all Hungarian students because you spoke so leniently about them and ignored their performance so much that it was an incredible negative school example. You insulted 177 thousand Hungarian teachers because you said their work was worthless. You insulted several counties of Hungarians because you said that in several counties the Hungarian people who lived there were ghettos and gave up on them. [[Dóra Dúró: He didn't say that.]] You have violated the entire Hungarian Gypsy, which we reject on behalf of the entire Parliament, honourable Member, because this is unacceptable in the Hungarian Parliament. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[8.40]] The fact that Jobbik has identity problems and in one of their programs they say that integrated education is the most terrible thing that can happen in their other program, and the last thing they say is that you have to try it, that it's good for integrated education, that it's your internal problem, that they don't even know which direction they're taking their own party; we see that they're taking it in two directions now. But it is unacceptable that you here in 2018 insult counties, teachers, children, gypsies and anyone else who comes up against you! There is no way to build Hungary, a country, so that when, by the way, your former party leader, Gábor Vona, is confronted with the fact that their own educational politician, who worked out their own program for education, was involved in a child abuse case, he says that it doesn't matter what he did before. How can you relate to the whole of education, honourable Member? ! [[Ander Balázs: 20 percent early school leaving Eastern Hungary!]] As a matter of fact, you have talked about the merit of investing in education: if you had voted in favour of the budgets in which we increased expenditure on education, we might have some faith in you. I mean, while in 2010 [[Gergely Harvester: Don't be ridiculous.]] Hungary spent HUF 1572 billion on education, now, this year we spend more than HUF 2000 billion, and we spend 38 percent more on students and teachers. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] education, the future of Hungary, as it was spent in 2010. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: And no results! The president's ringing the bell.]] If you look at how much education is spent in the countries of the European Union in proportion to the total national product, you will see that this is 4.9 percent of GDP, 4.9 percent of GDP is spent on education. In Hungary, this is 5.2 percent. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: And it's no use!]] It is higher in Hungary in terms of the ratio of the budget line for education compared to the total national product than in other EU countries, precisely because there is a very big lag to be made. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: You've been ruling for the ninth year!]] Because we remember the time when schools were closed in more than 300 places in Hungary [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] We remember when they took a month's wages from teachers, that's what we had to compensate for, and that's how we had to make the teaching career attractive. By increasing the wages of teachers by 50 percent, it also brought with it the fact that the number of applicants for the teaching field increased by 30-50 percent, not by 7,000, but by 10,000; not by 10,000, but by 13,000. This means that from a wider immersion [[Gergely Arató and Dr. Andrea Varga-Damm intervene.]] The young people with better abilities are able to get into the university and receive Klebelsberg Scholarship, which means that in those parts of the country we train teachers in exactly the same areas where and in which there is the greatest shortage. We spent billions of HUF on this Klebelsberg scholarship, we have 2.5 billion forints, a total of 2100 living contracts with teachers who are willing to help in schools in the most difficult situation, and the number of teachers who enter these places is up by 400 a year. This is how we really try to help, with more money and more attractive school system, not to mention that we have started the biggest school development program in recent years, since we can spend 80 billion forints on the one hand and 30 billion forints on the other. This means that we can develop the school of every fourth Hungarian student in order to make that school building more beautiful, modern and modern. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] , in which these students spend their school years. It is also important, honourable Member, that it is not the market approach and not the market textbook factories that are already winning on Hungarian children, but we are trying to provide the most modern textbooks in the state textbook development system free of charge for all students, as more than a million students receive textbooks free of charge. It is also important that from the age of three, all children are required to have a kindergarten. [[Gergely Harvestó: There is no room!]] If you were honest about catching up, you wouldn't want to be a gypsy. [[Ander Balázs: I didn't gypsy...]] but he would simply want to help people, children of three years of age who are born into a difficult family, then he would support how good it is to have children in kindergarten from the age of three, and the disadvantage they may suffer at home will be compensated in kindergarten from the age of three and not only from the age of six at school. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Ander Balázs:...incomprehensive in understanding of lyrics!]]
u2018-06-26-16	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I would like to inform my fellow Members that the Secretary of State has listened to his speech, and I would also ask you to listen to the answer. Thank you very much for your understanding. Dear Parliament, Mr Sándor Burány, from the Group of Dialogue, applied for a pre-meeting speech on the situation. It's an address. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2018-06-26-17	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, In 2015, there was already a serious warning from the European Union, since at that time they carried out and completed a comprehensive investigation of EU public procurement applications and found very serious irregularities. In 2015, in every third to fourth procedure, irregularities were found, causing a huge scandal, of course rightly, because we are talking about a scandalous practice. We might think there's nothing down there, but unfortunately, we had to find out that there was. In fact, according to recent data published by the Union, irregularities were found in 24 out of 29 EU proposals examined. So, not in every third or fourth, but almost in the entire sample, an irregularity was found, and yet this is unprecedented, and not so much attention to this news compared to it. By the way, if you look at the winners of these examined and condemned proposals, you will find familiar names. Among the winners are Rachel Orbán's fidesz lawyer, but there is, of course, Lőrinc Mészáros and his circle of friends. At least now we know exactly what Lőrinc Mészáros is and how much smarter than Mr Zuckerberg, who owns Facebook. Mr Zuckerberg believes that he must make a living from the market and collects his wealth according to this, Lőrinc Mészáros knows much better than he that this is not the way to do it; for a bright career, for enrichment, for unprecedented enrichment, it is just enough to have excellent government relations. A recurring element of the tenders and irregularities was the significant overpriced. Compared to the announcement, some HUF 70 billion were overpriced by the auditors, and this is quite simply unprecedented and clearly shows what is the favorite technique of tapping public funds at Fidesz and the Oligarchs near Fidesz. A sample of 900 contracts worth nearly a thousand billion dollars has been examined, and we can expect a fine of up to HUF 100 billion due to irregularities, which is also an unprecedented amount, so much so that according to reports close to government funds consider it would be easier to settle with the European Union at a flat rate of 10 per cent, because the penalty would be below HUF 100 billion, and if we went through these projects which were examined and considered irregular individually, then the penalty would certainly exceed HUF 100 billion. It is particularly outrageous that it was also found to be irregular that the chancellor's control of public procurement was outspoken. This is done by external companies and law firms, and not only did they not perform these checks effectively, they obtained billions of HUF orders. So they got a market, they got a billion dollars in revenue, they didn't do the job, because if they did exactly the audit tasks and did the exact findings, they wouldn't have this fiasco, and the Union wouldn't find these proposals irregular. Only a few of the major investments examined are: the reconstruction of metro line 3, the Budapest-Esztergom railway line, the development of Szántód-Kőröshegy-Balatonszentgyörgy and Fonyód-Kaposvár railway, the reconstruction of the Püspökladány-Ebes railway, the construction of the M4 berettyóújfalu-Nagykerek motorway, among others. Ladies and Gentlemen, After such an unprecedented scale of theft and such an unprecedented series of irregularities, one would think that the chancellor would have heads falling. But this was not the case, compared to this, he distributed billions of rewards before John Lazarus left, so that the workers there received an average of HUF 4.6 million each, including the doorman and the state top managers. HUF 4.6 million each, compared to 29 applications [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] 24 irregularities are quite simply outrageous! Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-06-26-18	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[8.50]]
u2018-06-26-19	Thank you for the floor. Honourable Mr. President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, Allow me to start with a little EU development policy assessment. The story never begins in 2018, because Hungary has long been haunted by the abuses and problems of the socialist and free democratic coalition before 2010. What do I mean? The first story: the story began when the second Orbán government took over the helm in 2010 [[Zsolt Gréczy: Year nine... Gergely Arató: What have you been doing for eight years?]] then he saw that the EU development policy institution system collapsed and Hungary was on the verge of losing funds. First of all, this problem had to be solved, the EU development policy institution system had to be adapted, so that the strategic goal would not be damaged, so that Hungary would have to draw the funds made available by the Union. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] This task was solved by the Hungarian government. Then the next story is about the next programming period, and we are talking about the programming period 2014-2020. Here, the Hungarian government had to reach out through very serious negotiations to negotiate more favourable conditions in the European Union than in the previous programming period 2007-2013. Here, too, we managed to achieve results: between 2014-2020, the per capita amount of subsidies in Hungary was 712,000, for a period of seven years. This is the third largest aid amount in net terms. Such a result could not be achieved by the former government, the left-wing socialist government before 2010. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Lőrinc Ripper! Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] And that's when we get to the next point, and that's the loss of skeletons, the loss of skeletons left out of the closet by the previous socialist-free Democrat government before 2010. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó intervenes.]] What do I mean? What you're talking about, we're talking about the same thing. The European Anti-Fraud Office has a report for 2017, which is actually investigating projects in Hungary. This report was published on 6 June 2018. This is the year 2017, but it also examines the projects of the previous period. The OLAF report says that out of the total cost of the subway investment of HUF 452 billion under the Mayorship of Gábor Demszky, the amount of contracts affected by corruption and irregularities exceeds HUF 272 billion. According to OLAF, direct damage would be HUF 167 billion, of which HUF 76 billion could be recovered by Brussels if necessary. This is one of the biggest corruption scandals that hit Hungary after the change of regime, on which the government's strategic goal and task is to try to prevent Hungary from avoiding the loss of funds due to previous left-wing socialist governments; it is not for taxpayers to have to pay for the contracts of the previous period. On the other hand, I would like to make a few statements on the Hungarian control system. Giovanni Kessler, President of OLAF, who resigned in September, led the College in 2011-2017, just during the period under consideration, was in Hungary last year and praised the cooperation of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office. [[Demercation from the benches of opposition parties.]] [[Demercation from the benches of opposition parties.]] The EP's Budgetary Control Committee also welcomes Hungary's fact-finding visit report as the only Member State to give OLAF access to everything. (Development from the benches of opposition parties. ) It also acknowledges that [[Gergely Arató: They just made a decision... the president's ringing the bell.]] Hungarian authorities cooperate closely with the body, and the control system also works well in our country. Moreover, the auditors explicitly point out that since 2014 progress has been made compared to the previous period and especially before 2010. I think these are results that we cannot put in parentheses. And that at the moment the Hungarian government has to deal with skeletons falling out of the pre-2010 period is not the responsibility of the current Hungarian government, but the responsibility of the previous government. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó intervenes.]] I would rather ask you that, instead of constantly bringing these questions up here in Parliament, you help us to investigate this, because in recent months, you and your representatives, friends, acquaintances, politicians from previous governments have failed to comply with your duty of cooperation in relation to all the investigations I have mentioned. I'm asking you to support the government's work in this. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-06-26-20	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Speaking before the agenda, Mr András Aradszki, KDNP Group asked for a speech, because it is called the Sanctuary of Life. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-06-26-21	Mr President, Dear House, On Sunday, June 24th, the Catholic Church celebrated the birthday of St. John the Baptist. His birth was accompanied by wonderful signs, since his parents were old, but still longed for the child. God listened to their request and gave them an unsurpassed gift: their child, John the Baptist, was born. For the family has been the purpose and fulfillment of man's life since ancient times. In the family, we believe that the Creator's love becomes tangible. Today, however, many deny this love relationship, in fact giving up the true greatness of man, the protective bulwark of his freedom and dignity. In fact, the apparent human rights proclaimed by liberal democracies, namely the Soros world, lead to the self-destruction of man, because their common denominator is denial, denial of dependence on the Creator, including the denial of national communities and family. On the other hand, family is one of the cornerstones of Christian democracy. [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] It's already Saint II. Pope John Paul also stated that the family is one of the most expensive values of the human sex. Mr President, Dear House, Since 2010, the Hungarian government has been pursuing a tax reduction policy to support families and job creation. As a result, wages will increase, employment will increase and the economy will grow dynamically. In recent years, the national government has developed an exemplary family support system. It has reduced taxes on work and the most important food, significantly reduced household burdens, implemented comprehensive wage increases and launched a unique home creation programme in Europe. According to the draft budget law submitted, we will continue the tax reduction policy in 2019. We continue to support a proportionate tax system, further reducing the tax burden on labour and the tax burden on businesses and families. The family tax reduction for two children will double in 2019 compared to 2015. However, we can't sit still, there's plenty more to do. Support for families where one parent is forced to raise his child alone is not yet satisfactory. The situation is similar for families with children with disabilities. In the same way, in addition to material support, which is of course very important, there is still a lack of spiritual and spiritual foundation. The sad experience of the Ratko era is that despite supporting childbearing and taxing childlessness, as the meaning and value of life was not passed on, the then born did not have many children. The psychic evacuation was successful for the Kadaric power, causing damage to the nation until today. So it is important to have a spiritual foundation, to communicate that demographic measures are value-based. This is what we see in public television, in the world of art, and fortunately more and more in public speaking, which is definitely a good and important thing. Dear Parliament, On Monday last week, my colleague Ferenc Gyurcsány asked me about the authentic Christian heritage. Christian tradition is a living and stimulating source of Christian Democratic political action that focuses on family, solidarity and fairness. The Hungarian government, which builds a Christian democracy, thinks and acts accordingly. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-06-26-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[9.00]]
u2018-06-26-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, 2018 is the year of families, wherever they go with families, everywhere you can see that we are trying not only to give families the respect and support in financial terms, but also in any other symbolic symbolic, symbolic, value-based forum, even if you think about it, last weekend, on the night of museums taking place next Saturday night to St. Ivan's, which is now about families, about families donating collections to different museums, and everything else that is going on this year, is trying to be a little family focus, precisely because of what the congressman said, that it means to have a family choice, and that we want to strengthen this value, and every time we show our respect for the Hungarian people who are starting a family, and they all think their own lives, so that they can make them complete and happy if they are raising children, then working with grandchildren, and they can all serve the future of the nation, because it is also a key to the survival of the nation. That is why we want to support families by all means possible, either on a moral basis or on a financial basis, as opposed to the opposition's pro-immigration position, who believe that these problems can be solved with imported people from abroad and illegal immigrants. We believe that the problems are only repeated, that it does not solve the situation of those people, we want to help them at home, in their homeland, in the homeland of their own families, and here, in Hungary, we want to strengthen Hungarian families. This is also important, because there is no stronger character-raising and protective environment than the family, everyone in the family can learn about adaptation, resignation, attention, assistance, solidarity, rejoice together, weep together, work together for something, and learn about the division of tasks and division of labour even within the family. And at the same time, it gives you a solid emotional base, because nothing gives you the emotional support of anyone like family. That is why it is important that families even by economic means, because the new tax law has now made the family an economic community, even by such means, and we can guarantee the stability of families. It is a good foundation, and what has been a good result in recent years in terms of the number of marriages, since the number of marriages in Hungary is much higher than in 2002. Obviously, this is also due to the government's family-friendly measures. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: What about divorces?]] Speaking of which, Congressman, the number of those has fallen with joy. So we hope that Hungarian families are becoming more stable, as I said, the family-type tax system was also helping, and this is obviously a sure foundation, a safe foundation for everyone who wants to have a child. This is why the rate of population loss has decreased noticeably by 18 percent compared to the previous eight-year period, since while natural weight loss was 324 thousand between 2002 and 2010, this is only now, but it is still obviously a lot of 266 thousand people, so the number that represents population loss in Hungary is 18 percent less. We hope that this can be further improved in the coming years. The fertility rate in Hungary has risen from the lowest level of 1.1 to 1.5, and our goal is obviously to raise it above 2, so that a couple has at least two children on average who would like to do so, obviously the state will provide all the help they can. In recent years, more than a million families with children have already taken advantage of the family tax relief, the average rate is now HUF 253 thousand per year, which is now growing every year, because more and more people are using it, and on the other hand, the lawsuits that are being used by families are increasing. The home creation discount, the CSOK, was used by 75,000 families, and we were able to give HUF 213 billion to families for home creation; HUF 213 billion per two million and HUF 5 million per ten million for Hungarian families, and their housing opportunities increased. The child is already up to three years old, and with the benefits of the graduate, children and students can use the lawn for two years, as well as the tax relief of newlyweds or the development of nursery care. As regards the draft budget law on Parliament's table and starting tomorrow's debate, it can be said that this is the first budget in Hungary's history where the budget for supporting families is over HUF 2000 billion, it was around HUF 1000 billion in 2010, barely exceeding HUF 1000 billion, now more than HUF 2000 billion that we give to Hungarian families, and what we believe we are providing for the Hungarian future. We also try to give discounts to single-parent families, it is enough to think that the first single-parent family centre has opened in Budapest in recent months, in the Erzsébet camps we have advertised separate camps for single-parent families, and we try to help them on every front. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-26-24	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, István Bajkai, Member of the Fidesz Group, also spoke before the agenda. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2018-06-26-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, I also chose a chapter for the headline chosen for my question, namely section 7:18 of Matthew's Gospel:. Arbor iniqua bonos nescit producere frucsût - that is, a bad tree can't produce good fruit. The biggest corruption scandal after the change of regime is connected to the construction of subway 4. This has now become clear to all, and only those involved are acting, turning their necks to all directions of the four directions, as if they did not have anything to clarify in this matter and silently. More than 200 billion forints, or about one third of the investment, were drawn, which is likely to be more accurate to the two flagships of the Balliberal side at that time: two pirate ships, MSZP and SZDSZ - and the left-wing politicians, which flowed in a broad stream like the Danube, if you look at the size of the amount. The current Left as a whole is involved in this serious corruption case, despite trying to escape responsibility through division and the creation of new formations. We are talking about the cross-border practice of Medgyessy-Gyurcsány-Bajnai, in which there is also the leadership of the Demszky MSZP-SZDSZ in the capital. Since then, the SZDSZ as a political organization has disappeared too late in history, but the heirs of spiritual and stolen fortunes have not disappeared from public life, let alone disappeared, but metaphorically continue to poison our political and social wells. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] The Hungarian Socialist Party recently made a renewal, from which we can admit: with some naivety we expected a confession, a credible opposition to their past, an apology and a follow-up to Hungarianism. Unfortunately, this has been cancelled, and it follows that renewal will also be delayed. Even though they play chess with their political players, even though the puppets are spinning in this bizarre panoptic, even though new people seem to lead their party, they cannot shake off, among other things, the abuse of metro 4 investments. [[Gergely Arató: Talk about the triple metro renovation!]] If there seems to be a conflict of interest among the actors on the left, interestingly, Gyurcsány and the socialists close immediately if there is a need to clarify where the stolen money has migrated. We can safely put it this way: they not only lied in the morning, noon and evening, but also deny in the morning, noon and evening. [[Gergely Harvester: Wow, that was funny.]] Renewal hasn't happened now, we have the old left on our necks, just like the damage they've caused. Dear Secretary of State, If, due to the corruption activity of the Left, part of the EU's money received for metro 4 has to be repaid, what is the amount to be borne by the Government, and what is the burden for the next year's budget? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Bravo!]]
u2018-06-26-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-06-26-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It is true that the government is not in an easy position, because at the moment the budget for the next period of the European Union is being adopted, and we are also under serious attack here, instead of the current EUR 13 billion, Brussels would spend EUR 35 billion on supporting migration, and European bureaucracy would receive more money than previously. There are, among other things, elements that are detrimental to Hungary in this proposal, such as the long-term integration of refugees by the European body of cohesion funds so far. The government is fighting against these proposals, considers them unacceptable, and hopes to be able to obtain assistance from all parliamentary parties, opposition parties. But the fact is that, as I mentioned in the previous speech, Hungary has long been haunted by the abuse of the previous period, the former left-wing socialist period, and these are at the top of the four metro investment you mentioned. We are talking about a 450 billion-dollar project, which started as a 194 billion-dollar project in the initial period, from which it crawled up to 450 billion. Of these, 272 billion forints of contracts are involved in corruption and irregularities. For HUF 166 billion, OLAF says that it was stolen, misused or cheated. [[9.10]] Quote from the OLAF report, examples of forms of abuse: they received money for internal information; there was no real performance; the evidence of performance was the same as the State's advisor; they received inside information; they helped friendly companies, and all of this raise suspicions of abuse, bribery, misrepresentation and conflicts of interest. The persons concerned, who are specifically remembered in the report: Péter Medgyessy, former Prime Minister, former Deputy Mayor of Budapest before 2010, former CEO of BKV, former CEO of MÁV. After 2010, the State Audit Office and the Government Audit Office also drew attention to irregularities in relation to the investment. To answer your question, the case may mean that the country may have to pay back up to HUF 59 billion to the European Union's account. This is obviously a huge potential budgetary burden. The investigation is underway. The most important thing at present is that the prosecution's proceedings should be completed as soon as possible and the damage caused to individuals, politicians, businessmen and companies involved in the biggest corruption case in the last nearly one and a half decades. At the moment, the government is doing everything in its power to reduce the rate of punishment, not that we do not agree with the meaning of the report, but to prevent the Hungarian budget, Hungarian citizens and entrepreneurs from having to pay several times for the abuses committed by the former government. We see that it is not fair that the European Union wants this back from Hungarian voters. Moreover, the Metro Corruption Task Force of the Metro General Assembly also prepared its report after several months of investigation and clearly concluded that the leadership of the Gyurcsány-Bajnai Government and MSZP-SZDSZ in the capital is responsible for this. I can inform you that the Hungarian Government has sent its replies within a reasonable period of time, based on OLAF's report, and does not dispute the legal basis for the findings contained in the report, but proposes to reduce the amount of correction. We find it outrageous that the Hungarian taxpayers have to be punished twice for these cases, and on this basis the former Prime Minister's Head of the Prime Minister's Office filed a complaint in connection with the delivery contracts concluded during the public procurement procedures for metro lines 2 and 4, and the investigation is continued by the Central Investigator's Attorney General. In the case of metro 4 the investigation is also underway under the jurisdiction of the National Bureau of Investigation for the crimes of misappropriation and other crimes which are particularly detrimental to property. The current state of play of the investigation can be described in detail by the investigator's authority. In the name of the government, I can say that we support the work of the authorities. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-26-28	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CXII on the right of information and freedom of information will be followed. General discussion of the draft law amending the law on the data protection re-form of the European Union, as amended by other related laws, until its conclusion. Government referral T/623. Available on the Par-Lament IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2018-06-26-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In January 2012, the European Commission presented a package of proposals to reform the current data protection standards, the need for which was justified by rapid technological progress and the new challenges brought about by globalisation. As you know, it has resulted in the adoption of two EU acts by the EU co-legislators, on the one hand a general data protection regulation and, on the other hand, a law enforcement directive. Dear House, It is important to point out in the context of the bill that Hungary has already put particular emphasis on the protection of personal data from the change of regime. A high level of protection of personal data was also ensured in European comparison by the former Constitution, the Law on the Protection of Personal Data and the Publicity of Data and the resulting practice of the Constitutional Court. The high level of protection for the protection of personal data was not only maintained by the Fundamental Law and the Law on the Right of Self-Recruitment and Freedom of Information, but also established the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information as an autonomous administrative body to promote the protection of personal data. Based on the current legal environment in Hungary and Hungary, it can be concluded that the level of protection of personal data in Hungary is one of the highest among the Member States of the European Union. With this in mind, the Government of Hungary has consistently expressed its position during the negotiation of EU legislative acts on the subject that, in view of the very high level of protection of Hungarian data protection regulations, the new EU data protection legislation should not be created as a source of regulation, but as a source of directive law. However, the EU institutions and the majority of Member States have sought to develop a uniform, directly applicable legal framework within the European Union. According to the conviction underlying this endeavour, regulation can prevent certain multinationals from engaging in data processing in countries that provide them with the most important rules by circumventing the different data protection regimes in the Member States. In parallel with the regulation, the European Union has adopted a directive on data processing for law enforcement purposes in a very narrow manner, which is also preferred by the Government of Hungary. Since 25 May 2018, the Regulation has become mandatory in the Member States of the European Union and since May, the Directive also obliges EU Member States to harmonise legislation. The bill, which is to be negotiated today by this House, would accordingly create the necessary provisions for implementing the regulation and, on the other hand, for the transposition of the directive, by amending the Act on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information. Dear House, As you know, on 20 June the Parliament adopted by a very large majority the T/335 on the amendment of the Act on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information for legal purposes. Legislative proposal No. 13, which is currently in the process of being published. The bill would only establish the necessary orders for the proper implementation of the regulation, thus only the designation of the authority responsible for the protection of personal data, i.e. the National Authority for the Protection of Data Protection and the Freedom of Information, and the rules governing the exercise of its law were established in the bill in question. The T/623 in front of us. In addition, in some 46 sections amending the Act on the right of self-determination and freedom of information, the bill meets Hungary's enforcement and transposition obligations under EU acts. Dear House, In the context of the implementation of the regulation, I have already indicated that, given that the regulation seeks to bring about full legal unification, the general rules applicable to all legal areas covered by it are directly in force and become applicable in Hungarian law, i.e. in relation to any legal relationship aimed at or involving the processing of personal data. In this respect, therefore, the Hungarian legislator had a deregulation obligation in the first place. [[9.20]] In addition, the Hungarian legislator has a positive legislative obligation to comply with the provisions of the regulation and to implement it. As regards the Regulation, this obligation means in particular the provision of adequate institutional and procedural frameworks related to substantive rules, in particular the designation, conditions and procedures of the data protection supervisory authority, the body to be established to ensure the protection of personal data. Although the currently announced T/335. This House has already appointed the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information as a data protection supervisory authority, and further additional standards governing the procedure and functioning of the data protection authority need to be adopted, which is also included in this bill. With regard to the regulation of the directive, which, as I said, requires the most deregulation in the form of a regulation, the transposition of the directive requires positive legislation. It is the task of the Hungarian legislator, on the one hand, not to hinder the enforcement of the regulation, to actively facilitate its implementation, that is to say, the legal system of the Member States should not contain conflicting standards and, on the other hand, to lay down legal provisions which comply with the obligations deriving from the directive in the context of the legal relationships covered by the directive. In view of the fact that the Hungarian legal system in force still traditionally contains data protection provisions which are generally applicable horizontally in a norm, in the Act on the Right of Information Self-determination and Freedom of Information, this solution is worthwhile and justified in the light of legal traditions and the saving of standards. Accordingly, the legislator intends to comply with the obligation of harmonisation of the provisions of the Directive and the implementation of the regulation as a necessary amendment to the provisions of the Act on the Right of Information Self-determination and Freedom of Information. Dear Parliament, On the basis of this bill, the substantive scope of the Act on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information would essentially be transformed as follows. First, the code character of the law, i.e. its characteristic that the data protection provisions generally applicable horizontally are contained in this law, would remain only in the case of data processing for law enforcement, national security and defence purposes. The reason for this is that, as has already been explained before, the European Union has established rules on data processing for law enforcement purposes only at the level of a directive, which must be regulated in full and in general by the Hungarian legislator. Data processing for national security and defence purposes, given that they do not fall within the scope of the Directive or the Regulation, as this objective was consistently represented by the Government when negotiating acts with several Member States, still require domestic legislation, so the Act on Information Self-determination and Freedom of Information on these three data processing will regulate data processing relations with a code character. Secondly, as regards data processing which falls within the scope of the Regulation, the Act on the Right of Information Self-determination and Freedom of Information would lay down the provisions which should be applied in addition to the Regulation in order to implement the Regulation. In these relations, the regulation and that law will therefore apply together, but it should also be noted that the legislation can only regulate in this context in the scope allowed by the regulation, which is also respected by the bill. Dear House, To sum up, therefore, the legislative proposal largely transposes the directive and sets out rules on data processing for defence and national security purposes. In addition, the bill would also establish the rules necessary for the implementation of the regulation, in particular the procedure of the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information for the tasks delegated to the national authorities by the Regulation, and its legal and legal functioning. In the context of the provisions to be adopted for the implementation of the Regulation, it should be pointed out that Article 55 (3) of the Regulation lays down that the powers of the supervisory authorities of the Member States should not extend to the supervision of processing operations carried out by the courts in the performance of their judicial tasks. In this context, the preamble to the Regulation states that, in order to ensure the independence of the judiciary in the performance of judicial tasks, including decision-making, the powers of supervisory authorities should not extend to the processing of personal data carried out by the courts in their judicial function. It should therefore be possible to entrust the supervision of such processing operations to specialised bodies within the judicial system of the Member States which ensure compliance with the rules laid down in this Regulation, thereby increasing the awareness of the judiciary in relation to their obligations, dealing with complaints relating to that processing activity. The bill would therefore introduce the data protection objection institution as an independent chapter of the Act on the Right of Information Self-determination and Freedom of Information in accordance with the Regulation. An objection to data protection could be made in writing to the court at issue in the main proceedings, which would make it possible for the court to examine whether the determining judge, sitter or judicial agent acted in accordance with the legal and Union law on the protection of personal data in the course of its processing activities. With regard to this regulatory model, it should be pointed out that it was developed by the Ministry of Justice in close cooperation with the Court of Justice, the National Court Office, so that the draft also enjoys the support of the judiciary. I would note here that it is also possible to say on the whole of the bill that it has been preceded by a very broad consultation. In the autumn of 2017, the Ministry of Justice sent a draft bill for social consultation before us, and developed its content in close cooperation with professional organisations and the National Data Protection and Freedom of Information Authority. Finally, it should be pointed out that the T/335. Legislative bill No 83 (2) to (6) of the Regulation would amend the Act on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information by stating that the authority exercises its powers under Article 83 (2) to ((6) of the Regulation, taking into account the principle of proportionality, by providing, for the first time, a warning to the controller or processor in accordance with Article 58 of the General Data Protection Regulation for the remedying the infringement in the event of a breach of the provisions laid down in the legislation on the processing of personal data or in a binding act of the European Union. It should be stressed that T/335. This bill leaves the rule contained in the bill setting out the administration's fine intact, which should also be applied in the event of the adoption of this bill. Dear House, In this context, I would like to point out once again that T/335. Only the provisions necessary for the implementation of the Regulation, the implementation of the Regulation, the transposition of the Directive and the designation of the rules applicable to the processing of data in national legislation are required. It should also be noted that, as the third stage of compliance with EU data protection reform in the Hungarian legal system, sectoral laws will also be reviewed, a package of which is currently being prepared with regard to the laws falling within the scope of their tasks and powers. This bill is also envisaged in point 8 of the Government's autumn 2018 legislative programme, according to which the Government is expected to submit the bill to Parliament in September on amendments necessary to implement the European Union's data protection reform. Dear Parliament, I ask the honourable Members to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-26-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, There will now be speeches by keynote speakers. I give the floor to Mr Péter Ovádi, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. [[9.30]]
u2018-06-26-31	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In January 2012, the European Commission presented a package of proposals to reform the currently applicable data protection standards. As a result, the EU co-legislators decided to adopt two EU acts. The directly applicable provisions of the Regulation provide for generally applicable rules for the processing and protection of data on natural persons, while the Directive provides, in particular, the regulatory framework for criminal proceedings and the enforcement of criminal sanctions, which are the legislative powers of the Member States to complete. In several cases, the Regulation allows Member States to lay down stricter rules on certain issues than the minimum level of protection provided for in the Regulation. It is an example that the international economic lobby has tried in several Member States to allow children from the age of 13 to contribute to the management of their personal data independently. Hungary treats the protection of families and children as a priority, so the maximum age allowed by the regulation is set at the age of 16. As you know, the basic amendments related to the entry into force of the GDPR regulation were adopted by the Parliament last week. In particular, the authority responsible for protecting personal data will be designated in order to carry out the tasks reserved for the data protection authority of the Member States under the Regulation in order to ensure the legal status of the data protection authority of the Member States as defined in the Fundamental Law. It is also worth highlighting the other fundamental point of the amendment, which sets out the principle of proportionality as a principle, given the more disadvantaged situation of small and medium-sized enterprises. The regulation includes two new schemes: the right to forget and the right to data portability. The right to forget means the non-recoverable, permanent and complete deletion of personal data for the whole web. The right to data portability serves the purpose of providing the data subject, at the request of the data subject, with available personal data in a structured, electronic form, to a third party, as defined by the data subject. Dear Parliament, The proposal before us is also intended to fulfil the legal harmonisation obligation of the Regulation and of the Directive. In view of the fact that the data protection requirements applicable horizontally in the Hungarian legal system in force are contained in the info law, the above-mentioned obligation to amend the provisions of the info law requires, in particular, amendments to the provisions of the info law. The proposal brings the definitions of the info law into line with the changed EU legal environment. In doing so, it shall transpose the definitions set out in Article 3 of the Directive and, on the other hand, adopt definitions and abbreviations which are justified from a codification and norm-saving point of view. These include genetic data, biometric data, or pseudonymisation. I consider it important to highlight the amendment 10. The new legislation on the post-mortem fate of online data, as set out in Section 2 of this Article. The data protection authority has already indicated that it would be necessary to establish a legal basis and a procedure that would confer certain rights relating to personal data on the relatives and heirs of the deceased in order to ensure that the principles and standards laid down in the info law are complied with as far as possible. The GDPR Regulation does not cover personal data of the deceased, but it refers the regulation of the processing of such data to the competence of the Member States. The proposal gives the data subject the opportunity to have his/her personal data, which he/she has made in life, on the fate of his/her personal data after his/her death, in order to authorise him/her to exercise in his/her life certain rights in relation to his/her personal data through his/her declaration of rights with the controller. Such transferable rights shall, on the basis of the proposal, cover access to, access to, access to, rectification, deletion, blocking of data, and protest against data processing. In addition, in the absence of such a declaration of rights, the proposal empowers the close relatives of the data subject, by virtue of the law, to exercise the rights of the rights concerned to initiate rectification, erasure and blocking, and to object to processing. Ladies and gentlemen, We examined the bill constructively at the multi-party consultation before the general debate. I hope that the constructive joint work will continue during the debate and that the opposition will support the proposal to protect personal data in the final vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-26-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-06-26-33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Indeed, this is a proposal that can be considered professional and has been discussed by the Ministry. I would add that it may be possible to do so before the submission in the future. Yesterday there was no big debate because I think that we agree with the direction of principles and the wording, but if, let us say, there are proposals to which we would make an amending proposal, then it is justified to do so before the submission. I would also like to add this in the previous debate, which set out the powers of the NAIH, and I would also like to say that the Hungarian Government was in favour of the directive when these frameworks were set up, and I do not think it is wrong that this was adopted as a regulation, because it is true that if it had only been a directive, a framework would have been laid down for the Member States, then there would have been Member States that would have introduced a much lighter regime that would have been much less stringent from the point of view of data protection, and we know that the multinational companies, the large companies, would have settled in these countries or set up subsidiaries there, would have continued these different data processing in the European Union, and would have been able to easily play out a more stringent system, even more stringent, in terms of Hungary. Obviously, at this age, data protection is very important, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, it is very easy to override these rules by interoperability of borders. This is why it is good that the Union should, in this case, put the framework of the rules in the same way or regulate them in a regulation, with the exception of quite strictly a few points where it leaves derogations or regulatory powers to national parliaments, but basically defines the scope of data protection. There is no other way of achieving a result that the data of European citizens can be effectively protected, and it is also very right - that it is also responsible for the needs coming from outside the European Union and, in turn, for the data concerning EU citizens. So, of course, this direction is okay in itself, and, as I said, I think that regulation will only help to protect the data of EU citizens. Indeed, the age determination between the ages of 16 and 13 has been made at this meeting to determine where this should be. This is an important point, and it is true, and we also see that this should not hurt if it is drawn higher. It has also been said, however, that this can be played out in many ways, but it is still better to try to have a rule taken into account either on different sites, on Internet platforms or on the largest ones, even though, in some cases, this is obviously not always possible. However, as technology evolves, I am now giving a non- utopian example, because based on different images, even uploaded images, age recognition or facial recognition on these platforms is at such a level that it may be possible that in the near future, if there are many years of difference, someone will register, say, at the age of 13, not accompany the parental consent, but will appear to be 16 and a half years old, these algorithms can easily rule out or signal, and the problem can be solved. [[9.40]] Obviously, this is less effective than fake accounts in some respects, and this has also been said at the conciliation - but the main aim of data protection in this aspect is not to exclude non-existent fake accounts, since we cannot talk about data protection when a person gives a fictitious name and fictitious birth data. Obviously, this is not the main target group, but youth and, in many cases, the disabled youth under the age of 14, which we may be one step ahead in protecting and protecting. I must say that, of course, the practice will show to what extent this is applicable, but at least the rules will be laid down. It is also understandable that these companies have been lobbying, that this age should be lower. You have to resist that, and from this point of view, as I say, it's a good thing you're still 16 years of age. Then we wait for the third part in the fall, what Mr. Secretary said. Now I would not repeat the criticisms that it would have been better to have made these three amendments earlier, or what might still be expected. I know it was a campaign this spring, but it could have been done in the last few years. Obviously, we have already done this, but we often say that the transposition of these EU directives or even regulations should not take place at the last minute. I don't know why, but such an atmosphere or such a direction prevails within the ministry and the government, that if there is a time limit, it's actually enough to set it as a task-solving deadline. Well, in many cases, it doesn't work, just like we've missed our deadline here in a way. This can create legal uncertainty from the point of view of the direct applicability of the Regulation, even if only for a few months. On the other hand, I think it is clear that this proposal was not written in the witch kitchens of politics. I accept it because I have no conflicting information that the consultation with the authorities, the NAIH, and the social consultation have actually taken place. Of course, if conflicting information gets to me, I will also share it with the Honourable House. By the way, I very much hope that, in the future, laws that push politics along as far as possible and put professional arguments on the side will be brought before the National Assembly. Of course, in the form of a regulation there can be no too big a difference, so professionalism has been a limited line, and the EU decision-making bodies have obviously discussed these provisions many times. But it could still be bad, it doesn't mean anything in itself that, let's just say, before the European Parliament, there was a regulation. We have seen countless unacceptable and unacceptable regulations, which have been adopted in this way. I think it's not like that, and we're giving you the opportunity to prove this new set of rules. In fact, because of EU rules, we do not have any other options. We hope that the government will monitor the implementation of this, and that any errors or shortcomings in the regulation that need to be addressed, eliminated in the future, and that in the future data protection incidents will become increasingly rare. It is also important that small and medium-sized enterprises are indeed approached by the public authority in a way that is described in the law in a way that, for the first time, they prefer to help and not punish. The other half is also true: however, multi-enterprises and larger companies for which the Hungarian authorities may experience some kind of abuse, whether out of gross negligence or consciously, can be devastated there, even for the first time, with the greatest rigor of the law. Obviously, we will not shed tears if, on the basis of an approved regulation, these large companies, multi-company companies, say, have to pay significant fines for a first check and face significant legal consequences. They obviously have lawyers, data protection professionals, and we expect that if data from large numbers of Hungarian citizens and EU citizens are damaged, the authorities will impose the worst possible fine. While the other half, as I have said, is a helpful approach for small and medium-sized enterprises; their goal should be to comply with the law in the future if they were otherwise not intentional. However, we will obviously look at the amendments, but no more can be said on the proposal. We'll probably support it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-06-26-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2018-06-26-35	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, We see that data protection reform is very important, because in recent weeks we have all received e-mails about what advertising agency and shops have signed up for our e-mail address, where we have never signed up for. Now, with the entry into force of the GDPR, we have received these e-mails, and we have seen how, if we have registered somewhere, our e-mail address has been passed on to other advertising or commercial organisations on the Internet. I think that is why it is justified that we have the proposal before this House. My fellow Member, Mr Staudt, has also rightly said that, even if a legislative act or a regulation is adopted in the European Union, it does not mean that it is definitely good or that we must welcome it from a place. I think that there are many positive points in the current regulation and directive, but it is important to note that, on the basis of the current legal environment in Hungary, it can be concluded that the protection of personal data is at the forefront of our country, in the upper third or in the forefront of the Member States of the European Union. This high level of protection may therefore be further strengthened by the current amendment. With digitalisation, modernisation and technological progress, the Commission explained the data protection reform. I think, and this has already been said, that with this single regulation, it can be avoided that multinational companies continue their processing activities by circumventing the different data protection regimes of the Member States, in a country providing them with the most favourable rules. I agree with the previous speakers that small and medium-sized enterprises should be protected, helped, and the principle of proportionality should be applied. We have already adopted an amendment to this last week. I also agree that if large multinational companies commit an irregularity or an incident of data protection, they should be dealt with in the strictest possible manner and, for the first time, set an example of the highest possible fine. The Christian Democratic People's Party has also spoken on several occasions and has also presented proposals on consumer protection, on illicit data collection and consumer fraud. I think it's a good direction, what we're stepping on right now. The proposal before us amends the provisions of the info law in such a way that, after the entry into force of the proposal, we can continue to transpose the provisions of the European Union Directive into Hungarian law by providing for a comprehensive and coherent set of rules on the protection of personal data; it provides the provisions of the regulation, the conditions for its implementation, in particular the procedural rules necessary for the application of the legal institutions provided for in the regulation; it lays down the substantive and procedural rules applicable to the processing of personal data in respect of legal relationships not covered by EU law, thereby ensuring the smooth regulation of the entire range of data processing relationships under Hungarian jurisdiction; and it sets out the rules for the enforcement of certain rights relating to personal data subject following the death of the data subject. I'd like to highlight two novelties. More has been said, but perhaps one has not yet. One is the right to forget, the right to be turned around, which is very important, that if you ask, your history, your presence on the Internet, your footprint, if you can put it that way, delete it; and the explicit appearance of the right to data portability. We welcome that. It is a very important novelty, and it will be decided in practice how well it will work, that the controller must notify the national supervisory authority as soon as possible of cases of serious data security incidents, document them, and inform the data subject without delay, depending on the level of risk. [[9.50]] I think that in practice it will be decided what it means without delay, what it means to notify without delay, but if these data are released either from data protection errors or technical deficiencies, or because of some kind of attack or coordinated hacker attack, it is very important that this goes to the authorities concerned and to those concerned as soon as possible. Practice will show us how this speed works, but we hope it will be positive. It is also important to note in the proposal that, by establishing the info law, it establishes the legal institution of the data protection objection as a means of verifying the processing operations related to the judicial tasks of the courts and sets out the arrangements for the settlement of that objection. The proposal also states that, on the basis of the objection, the court examines whether the determining judge, sitter or judicial staff member has acted in accordance with the legal and Union law on the protection of personal data in the course of their processing activities. Although we have only heard one opposition speech, I am pleased that there is a unity behind the proposal, the opposition also believes that it is important to further consolidate the protection of personal data at a high level in the EU and to strengthen Hungary's role in this. The Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party supports the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-26-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Varga, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-06-26-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I could say to my colleague in favour of the Government before me that there is no unity in this, because in general, amendments to legislation for legal harmonisation are also supported by the opposition. Of course, our membership of the European Union is the source of numerous similar legislative amendments and packages that the Parliament is negotiating. Otherwise, what is wrong with this package, or that we are discussing it now, is not this, but, as was said in the exposé, that from 2012 the European Commission had a very clear package of proposals, which is why the ominous GDPR was created. Therefore, this Data Protection Regulation, a relevant directive, was adopted on 27 April 2016. That was over two years ago. So what was expressed as opposition criticism on this subject, in my view rightly, is the delay itself. So until April, in the spirit of information campaigns, we did not hear much about this subject. There were two years in which, I think, there could have been an information campaign on the subject. Billions have gone on another type of information campaign, and I'm not going to do that, I'm just gonna make a statement. I think it would have been very useful on this subject, which affects millions of citizens, all Hungarians, and it would have been very useful to inform them on this subject. In the previous term, the Parliament took the view that the amendments to the legislation, the necessary packages, or even the whole, could have accepted and carried out this task. Because since 25 May 2018, a month ago, there have been mandatory legislation in the European Union. Such is the data protection regulation, the relevant directive. There is a delay that the Parliament has fallen into on this subject. We think that's a problem. At the same time, I must say that we support and support proposals for harmonisation. Since it has been said that another package is coming in the autumn, and I can usually say in the coming months that there will be more amendments to this issue, I think it is right to set out the framework in which our group can support these proposals. There are basically two directions here. It has been said how many citizens can meet up with being vegan because they call different companies or receive letters, unsolicited e-mails about cases and companies they've never even heard of, especially if they haven't given us their details. So I have to say, and I would like to put this down as a line, that we are in favour of broadening the protection of Hungarian citizens, of this type of protection of Hungarian people, in terms of data protection. This is an important thing, an important value, and, of course, there can be consensus in this. Secondly, we support proposals for harmonisation, almost entirely, in general, almost generally. Of course, it is also a rule here that these laws should be in the interests of the Hungarian people. But in the proposals for harmonisation, I would like to say that we would like this to be a faster job if it were not, if not in the ministry, that, in addition to the many other types of work that are more decisive in internal policy, it may be secondary or multi-level. The Parliament should do this work in time, and the government and the Ministry should make these proposals on time. Thirdly, I would like to lay down the cornerstone that has already been said before me - that the Data Protection Regulation and the entire intention to amend itself were put on the table here, for your part, in connection with the abuse of the dominant position of multinational companies. It's okay, it has to be done. But let me also put it on the table that it is not only in words that we have to stand up for Hungarian SMEs in this story. So as one more cornerstone, I would like to place on the table that we will not support proposals that unnecessarily and unnecessarily destroy or fine Hungarian SMEs. To sum up, I can say, not repeating unnecessarily what has been said so far in the debate, that we will support all proposals that meet these three principles in the coming months, but that we will not support proposals that do not comply with either of these. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you.
u2018-06-26-38	Thank you very much, honourable Member. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group, while giving the chair to Vice-President János Latorcai. Thank you for your cooperation. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2018-06-26-39	Mr President, Dear House, In the rule of law and democracy, the affairs of the State are transparent and personal data are protected. In dictatorship and semi-dictatorship, this is exactly the other way around, the affairs of the state are secret, and the data of individuals are very much wanted by the public authorities. Today, in Hungary, the second situation is more typical in practice than the first. You are doing everything you can to ensure that public information is not known to the public, and you are also doing a lot to enable the state to know and abuse the private data of its citizens. [[Sándor Font: You copied all the data of the APEH under your government!]] Therefore, we should welcome the fact that the European Union, unlike you, is indeed acting to protect personal data, so that neither public organisations nor private organisations or businesses can process data without sufficient consent to them, that processing takes place in a lawful and transparent manner, that personal data processing must have a specific purpose, and that businesses and organisations only manage data for so long and in a way that is necessary for that purpose, which is inevitable in this case. Finally, it also argues that appropriate organisational and technical measures guarantee that data processing is indeed regular, that there will be no abuse. That's what your state systems don't really have. In general, therefore, the Democratic Coalition would see the need to create a completely new, stronger Hungarian data protection regulation from the European Data Protection Regulation and its spirit, and to adopt a new regulation that is equally strong and highly restrictive to the state, which guarantees the public's full disclosure of data of general interest. Compared to this, all solutions are only weak compromises; this is what we think compared to the current proposal. In addition, it has been shown once again that you have not been able to govern in the course of constant war and propaganda in recent years, which is why the new master Mekk legislative master's masterpiece was to adopt it last week, otherwise with delay, the most necessary amendments necessary for the entry into force of the data protection regulation. We now have another draft legislation, a draft law, which you wish to bring into force with urgency and also with an immediate one-day deadline for its entry into force. [[10.00]] This is also necessary in order for the EU regulation to prevail. Finally, as we have heard, there will be a wave even in the fall. It took two years to prepare. They would have had two years to bring together a high-quality, uniform regulation to the Parliament, and by adopting it, they would have been able to carry out quality legislative work and not such fire-fighting and seizure work. Based on these experiences, it was wise for the EU legislators to choose the stricter form of regulation and not the regulation of directives, because, in all likelihood, if only a directive had been adopted, the corresponding Hungarian legislation would have been adopted at some point and at the end of the next century. Compared to what's in the bill itself, it's not that bad. It must be said that there are rules in this which are indeed left to the domestic competence of the regulation and that the draft legislation is well-thought out. We also consider it important to protect the data of the deceased, although we see that the current legislation is still weak. More protection would be needed, a regulation that automatically protects these data even if the relatives do not make a statement or if there is no prior declaration of their treatment. But basically, we think this direction is right, as we agree with setting a higher age of consent to the processing of minors. Overall, we consider this proposal to be insufficient, weak and hasty, but we may be able to support it as a partial solution as a momentary solution. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Honourable House. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-06-26-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the Dialogue Group is Congressman Bence Tordai. I'll wait for Congressman to put the microphone on. I'll ask for time to start from here. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-06-26-41	That's very kind of you, Mr. President. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I don't know, do you know the joke about the Fidesz meeting with GDPR? No? Nobody? Anyway, there goes the Fidesz in the lowland monastery, and the GDPR comes up. Hey, Fidesz, I'm GDPR. What PR? Whatever. Can you steal from me? Oh, I'm sorry, dear Fidesz, I know this is very important to you, but stealing is not something I can do. Then will you help us keep our power forever? Well, the thing is, I know it's very important to you, too, but unfortunately, I have some bad news for you, even the Kubatov list should be destroyed. Then what am I supposed to do with you? We could look at people's data together. The bad news is, you have to work to do this. I know you're a little lazy and stupid, but I'll help you, and we've got two years. Well, no, no, no, we don't like your kind around here, go ahead, move back to Brussels, to Soros. [[Defiance in the dialogue.]] Nobody laughed.
u2018-06-26-42	Congressman! Congressman, just because a minute has passed and it hasn't actually started what the debate is about in a minute. In such cases, it is the duty of the chairman to draw attention to the fact that this is not what the debate is about. I really appreciated the sense of humor you brought up, but now I'm asking you to get to the point. Here you go.
u2018-06-26-43	Thank you again for the floor, Mr President. So, it may be funny, it may not be funny, but there really is a lot of truth in this little story about the relationship between government parties and the General Data Protection Regulation. Of course, since jokes are always simplistic and do not contain the whole truth, I would nuance the picture a little bit. Of course, you Fidesz people are very talented at stealing, and you can steal from it, because once the ministries have been professionally empty and unable to carry out such a regulatory task, they have obviously outsourced it to one of the friendly law firms, which, overpriced, has once again removed the faggot from this job. In the same way, it has, of course, contributed to maintaining their power in such a way that, while no authority in Fidesz dares to punish it, opposition parties must abide by the ever-changing regulation until the last letter, otherwise the penalty may come. In this campaign, poor András Patyi was the only one to punish the Prime Minister with his obvious political paedophilia, who turned this back on him three times as a Dumpster. He humiliated her three times on that Facebook video that she thought was important to share on her official page. Now, let's put this all aside, because the point is, really, that you managed to create a normal regulation. The bad news is, no. The deadline was on May 25th, compared with the first installment of the regulation at the beginning of June, the second detail is now, at the end of June, and the third part will be able to be submitted to the Parliament by the Fidesz government sometime in the autumn. So from here on out, what is the content of each amendment is secondary to what is already after the deadline. If we were at school, the teacher would not appreciate the homework given, since the work could not be done by deadline. At the same time, the GDPR should be supported as such, and the amendment of the Hungarian info law should also be supported, as has already been said here by colleagues who have contributed to the professional part. There are no fundamental problems with that. The problem is, and I will say it in a way that the minds of the Dakota proverbs can understand that a gap cannot be jumped from three steps. Either we jump at the same time or we crash at the same time. The Fidesz government has fallen into the ravine, failed in government work. So unfortunately, on the part of the Dialogue, we cannot appreciate this work in a positive way. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-26-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now possible to make a two-minute speech. For a two-minute speech, Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa applied. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-06-26-45	Thank you very much. Mr President, So far, this debate has been quite normal, and we have heard professional contributions, but unfortunately, the Democratic Coalition and the representative of the Dialogue have failed to step up this level of professionalism. Gergely Arató says that there is a semidicture and dictatorship in Hungary, as he said that the second one is valid. Well, the thing is, Congressman, our president didn't shoot people with rubber bullets and put them on a sword to fear for his power, but for yours. I think it is not enough for two minutes to list the politicians you belong to who are being prosecuted for misuse of official data. I'd like to mention László Keller or their President of Szolnok, Múllóvár. I think it's a shame that you're talking about this, because you're the ones who ignored the people, who, in fear of the power of Ferenc Gyurcsány, beat them up, I think it's a shame. And I would like to say to Congressman Bence of Tordai that he is not so good at telling jokes, that we should meet the voters, not tell jokes, and not lecture him as a half-percent party. They told me on April 8th. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] On 8 April 2006 people expressed their views on governance and expressed their views on how Fidesz-KDNP governs. It happened. I know this hurts you, you have to do the mourning work, you have to do it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-26-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Béla Turi-Kovács applied for a speech from the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Mr. Premier. You have the floor.
u2018-06-26-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I think that today's debate started well here, and indeed a professional discussion started in the right direction and in any event with the intention of improving it. Even if, basically, there was a mistake in Jobbik's speech. We can't be late. As early as 1992, we passed an exemplary law in this country to ensure this protection. I think this has continued to prevail all along. There are few European countries where there are so strong Commissioners to guarantee this protection. This is true for the current government, but especially for ours. It is therefore a huge mistake to talk about the delay that is now. [[10.10]] Secondly, I would like to point out, and I think that we all deserve to think about this: there are a lot of accusations against this country, the government, that we are going against the ideas of the European Union. The ideas that serve not only the interests of Hungary but also the interests of Europe, we will never go against them. It's like that. Here, too, I believe that the government has chosen a good direction in this case, has taken a good course and has made a good professional presentation. The fact that he made this proposal in May or has just made it is of no importance, because in the intervening period, the opposition has to give one example where there would have been any kind of disadvantage as a result of delay. You can't even joke about that, I'm sure. Well, this House, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in the coming time, there is something really to be taken care of: with regard to the smaller ones and the larger ones, the forces that are manifesting strongly everywhere, in the economy, but even in civil political life. We need a lot of attention from the government here and a lot of caution. Great attention and caution to avoid a situation where the big and strong will easily comply with certain rules will be difficult for the smaller ones. I would therefore ask the government to ensure that the smaller ones have the opportunity not to start matters in such a way, not to start things where there will be a penalty immediately and definitely, immediately and in any event a retaliation. In the coming time, the application and good functioning of this law will depend greatly on this tact. I trust that this tact will exist, as there have already been manifestations. In this regard, I hope that there will be further encouragement. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-26-48	Thank you very much, Mr. Premier. Mr Tamás Harangozó is next from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-06-26-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I would like to distance myself from the small story of my fellow Member from Torda, and I have absolute sympathy for my fellow Member Nacsa, and I also think it is outrageous that it was only the one-time fidesz in the story, and not the one-time Fidesz-KDNPs. I'm guessing that's your problem with speaking. [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] Ladies and gentlemen, and I would also like to say to my esteemed fellow Member, Turi-Kovács, that I would like to put on the table a topic where delays are a problem. Many of you here have said what a problem it is that the government has not been able to bring in this bill in two years, even though everything was at your disposal so that this new bill and its implementation will not end at the last minute of the entire Hungarian population and of the entire Hungarian business community, but I would like to draw your attention to a problem that they have not been able to comply with for the sixth year now, and I think it is fundamentally related to this bill. To be precise, I will also read to you, Act L. of 2013 on the electronic information security of public and municipal bodies, the scope of which concerns a number of specific organisations, such as the Hungarian Defence Office, the data controller leading the population register or the electoral register, which concerns the security of their electronic information systems, requires that they be implemented and ensured throughout the life cycle of electronic information systems covered by the law. (A) the confidentiality, integrity and availability of data and information processed in the electronic information system and (B) the integrity and availability of electronic information systems and components are closed, fully protected, continuous and proportionate to risks. I'll try to say it in Hungarian. So what the state and its various organs record about us, about themselves, or about secrets, the security of these IT systems must be guaranteed by the Hungarian state's bodies. Act adopted in 2013, my fellow Members, and the Hungarian State has not implemented it to this day. Right now, I'm ashamed of the salad law that established the budget, if I remember correctly, for the fourth time. It started with two years in 2013, then four years in 16 and then five years last year, and now it is brought in that it has to be done in six years compared to 2013. The sixth year will now be 2019. Another gem of legislation compared to last week's fundamental law amendments is that this proposal has no justification at all in the law, neither detailed nor general justifications as to why the Hungarian State is unable to ensure that the data of citizens and the state are physically and electronically secure. Please understand, this is about not guaranteeing that, under existing laws, the Hungarian State will guarantee that it will not be possible for any or all of the previously exemplary listed bodies, whether it is the police, the military, the population register, the electoral data, to ensure that the Hungarian State will not be able to enter, that the hacker will not be able to hack into the fact that otherwise all physical and other security conditions are met. That this is so, and that there is such a content of this problem in particular, I cannot talk to you about it because, at the closed meeting of the Defence and Police Committee and the National Security Committee, we have been convinced that the problem is very big, but since it is a state secret, I will obviously not tell you the details. But I'm asking you to take this seriously, it's not a game. Here we are talking about the security of law enforcement agencies, citizens' data, or state secrets, and for the sixth year they have been able to bring in another unsubstantiated amendment to push the implementation of this by another year. I was very pleased to see Attila Péterfalvi, President of the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, here at the beginning of the debate. I would also like to send a personal message to Mr President to be kind enough to investigate this matter, and to encourage the Hungarian government to take real action, because the story could be solved from HUF 1-2 billion. They haven't been able to do it in six years. You know, this is like any extraordinary situation or disaster that this can cause until it happens, no one will deal with it, but as soon as the data of citizens, administrative data or even secrets disappear or are destroyed in any IT system, everyone will realize how important this is. I ask you that the Hungarian Parliament, when adopting this budget, does not exceed the deadline, but put 1-2 billion forints on a line from which the authorities of the Hungarian State can finally resolve this issue. Thank you so much for listening.
u2018-06-26-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Bence Tordai, from the Group of Dialogue, spoke again. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-06-26-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I applied to speak again because my fellow Member said that there were no negative consequences for failing to meet the deadline. The bad news is that, yes, there are negative consequences: Hungarian law enforcement, 1.7 million entrepreneurs and SMEs have to adapt four times, more than 60 thousand NGOs have to adapt to the ever-changing regulation. So the European regulation itself entered into force on 25 May, and you form three more waves of regulations amending all kinds of info laws and other related laws. This means that if you want to be a regular law enforcement officer, you have to run this job four times, you have to put in a lot of man-hours four times, you have to pay big money four times, so the cost of switching is four times what is absolutely necessary. This is a cost of at least ten billion at the level of the entire national economy, and a lot of organisations simply do not have such completely unnecessary spending in their budget. Not to mention that, after the regulation has not been set up in time, they may have spent unnecessary costs or avoided data loss. So if they start only from GDPR and it turns out in the fall that certain things do not need to be strictly regulated, some IT developments may become unnecessary, or in the first panic in many places they simply solved the question by deleting the data with employees, I think this is familiar with many companies. They simply lost databases, or at least made databases more difficult to access, thereby making the work more efficient. And speaking of how Hungarian entrepreneurs and businesses adapt to the changed legislative environment, let's also talk a little about competitiveness. It's a case we agree on for the time being. We agree that it is important to improve the competitiveness of Hungarian businesses. If you know the numbers, we must also agree that this has not improved a bit since 2010. [[10.20]] I have bad news: an important element of competitiveness is a predictable legislative environment. Now that's what your chaos steering can't provide. If you ask any of the executives, you will say that it is that you are dragging data protection regulations from the tax system right now, but if we really look at any area of the law, we are looking at an idea from the ongoing ad hoc and power policy. So that government work is of such low quality, it can be seen in the performance of the Hungarian economy, because it is seen in the competitiveness of Hungarian companies, Hungarian SMEs and Hungarian entrepreneurs. So they do cause very serious damage. They cause damage to tens of billions in the short term and cause damage to competitiveness stagnation in the long term through this incompetent governance. Thank you.
u2018-06-26-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Pál Völner, as rapporteur, to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-06-26-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Firstly, I would like to thank the factions that have been able to approach the proposal professionally and have made a substantive contribution to the proposal. I also thank you for the support you have put forward for the proposal, especially those who were able to come to the seven-party conciliation, and there, in practice, we have been able to discuss the background of the breakdown of the amendment into parts, which, of course, includes the fact that the social debate on this series of laws has already started in the autumn of 2017. Some were not in Parliament at the time, were unable to participate, and were not informed. The other part is that we actually managed to reach a draft by spring, then the parliamentary elections came, Parliament did not meet, so it could not have been negotiated. On the other hand, the governance structure has also changed, so the regulation on sectors, in line with the new statutes, has to be changed, and this means that the third part will be added to the House later. The most urgent, most important part, the determining authority has already been designated. And it is a more demanding professional work that the chapter to be negotiated outside the sector, which is now before us, should be properly torn apart from what we will be able to bring to this House in the autumn. Those who were there understood, practically accepted. I am very sorry that those who do not participate in the meaningful work will subsequently make sharp criticisms at a general level at the end of a mature professional process. I very much hope that the new regulation, the essential element of which we are talking about multiple preparations, does not, in itself, mean any preparation obligations on the part of companies. Nor was it any obligation to prepare for the fact that there is an orientation, that there is no need to fine small and medium-sized enterprises in the first instance, so the general need for professional comments will hopefully be met by the authority. There was talk of delays. Other EU Member States should also look at the timetable for transposition of directives, how much coordination and professional work it takes to maintain coherence within the whole legal system for the application and transposition of EU law. I would not be concerned with the qualities where such dictatorship and other political voices were spoken. The election campaign has already taken place. Fortunately, a large part of Parliament understands that we are talking about professional work. For example, I would like to thank Mr Varga for offering his cooperation on legislative harmonisation issues. [[Noise.]] We'll live with it in the future. I would also like to point out that we are talking about a two-thirds law. For example, there have been factions that have shut down any kind of negotiation over the past year that was two-thirds. So I can't fully accept this part of the criticism. I would like to thank Mr Béla Turi-Kovács for having partially answered the questions that were raised and helped to shed light on the backgrounds of these questions, and, as an old, experienced Member, he has been able to comment back to 90 on the data protection regulations and the standards adopted so far, which have really kept us at the forefront of Europe to this day. Overall, thank you once again for your comments and for your support for this proposal. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-26-54	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, As usual, amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate on the draft law on the control of foreign investments in Hungary's security interest until the closure. Government referral T/628. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-06-26-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The monitoring of foreign investments in major sectors, which are outstanding for the national economy and for the care of the population, is in the best interests of all nations. Our country can't be an exception. The proposed legislation is designed to enable the State to take action in the future against the economic influence of investors from foreign countries in certain sectors that could harm Hungary's security interests. To this end, the present bill intends to make a notification to foreign investors about the acquisition of ownership of companies originally established in Hungary or of companies established in Hungary by foreign investors, if the company is active in economic sectors sensitive to the security of the country, such as the production of firearms and military equipment, the production of secret service equipment, the provision of financial services, the supply of electricity and gas and water utility services. The draft would also require notification of the acquisition by the foreign investor of the right of use or operation of infrastructure, equipment and equipment essential for the pursuit of an economic activity. Foreign investors wishing to acquire a certain degree of interest in companies operating in Hungary engaged in a regulated economic activity are obliged, under the draft law, to notify their intention to acquire an acquisition in advance to the minister to be appointed by the government by sector. Having examined the provisions of the notification, the Minister may decide to take note of the transaction or to take a decision prohibiting it. In the absence of an acknowledgement, ownership rights relating to the share to be acquired shall not be lawfully exercised. A refusal decision may be taken by the Minister if he considers that the acquisition of foreign influence violates the security interests of Hungary. The extent of the foreign participation subject to notification would be determined by law in the acquisition of a direct or indirect holding in a company based in Hungary of more than 25 per cent in the case of a public limited company of more than 10 per cent. The obligation to notify also applies in cases where the share of ownership which a foreign investor wishes to acquire in itself does not reach the specified level, but, as a result of its acquisition, the aggregate amount of foreign influence in that company, with the exception of public limited liability companies, would exceed the threshold of 25 per cent. It is also important to note that the legislation contained in the proposed legislation is fully in line with the European Union's legislation and core values. It is intended solely to control the acquisition of Hungarian shareholdings by investors, whether natural persons or entities, citizens of States outside the European Union, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation, or to operate an organisation registered in third countries. The draft law also regards as foreign investors from third countries wishing to acquire shares in Hungarian companies operating in the sectors concerned through the intervention of legal entities established in Hungary, the European Union and the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation. The regulation is no stranger to the legal order of the neighbouring countries, and many other EU Member States use the same instrument. [[10.30]] The legislation proposed in the draft law thus also gives the ministers authorised to assess the reported transactions with the necessary powers to verify compliance with the notification obligation. Ministers could, on the one hand, impose a fine moving within the limits specified by law and, on the other hand, exercise in an unchanged manner all the decisions which they enjoy in connection with legally notified transactions in the event of failure to notify. In the latter case, if the outstanding transaction would require a decision to prohibit it, the Minister shall grant foreign investors a maximum period of three months to sell or terminate its shareholding in a company based in Hungary. During the sale, the Hungarian State has the right of pre-emption. If the deadline thus set is not met, the Minister shall designate in a decision the State body which, by the date specified, may take action to sell the investor's share in place and on behalf of the foreign investor. During the sale, the Hungarian State also has a pre-emptive right in this case. In addition to all these requirements, the draft law also lays down detailed rules for the fulfilment of the obligation to notify foreign investors and for the assessment of the reported transactions, including the necessary rules and authorisations for the purposes of the notification procedure. I am confident that you will agree that the establishment of legislation for State control of foreign influence in security sensitive sectors, which has not yet been applied in the domestic legal order, serves the right purposes. I trust that the adoption of the bill will ensure the security aspects necessary to effectively enforce Hungary's interests over foreign investments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-26-56	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Gábor Bányai. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-06-26-57	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The national sovereignty of Hungary is a priority matter and interest of both the government and the majority of voters. Our sovereignty must and will be protected at all costs, and we are fully committed. The control of foreign investments in the country's security and sectors of major importance for the care of the population is a well-conceived, elementary interest and demand of all nations, and our country cannot be an exception, because it is our job to protect our country, to come in any form, from any direction. We have taken and will take all necessary measures to protect the Hungarian people and our country. Dear House, This is not a devil's idea, as many Member States of the European Union control foreign investment in certain sectors coming from outside the European Union, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation. The regulation of Member States in this area is diverse, not only in respect of the sectors under control or the instrument of control, but also in respect of the value to be protected as a basis for the restriction. This is precisely the purpose of the T/628 presented to this House by the Minister of the Interior. His bill No. 1 also. The proposal aims to enable the State to take action in the future against the economic influence of foreign investors in certain sectors, which is detrimental to Hungary's security interests and sovereignty. The bill makes the acquisition of ownership of foreign investors subject to notification, in particular in the areas of the production of firearms and military equipment, dual-use equipment, the production of secret service equipment, the provision of financial services or the supply of electricity and gas and water utility services. It would also entail a notification obligation to acquire the right to use or operate the infrastructure, equipment and equipment necessary for the pursuit of an economic activity by the foreign investor. The proposal also states that failure to notify results in serious legal consequences, since it cannot be registered in the stock register or the membership register without it. On the other hand, the scope of the right of operation contract is limited to the date on which the Minister takes note. A litigation procedure may be initiated with regard to the nullity of the transaction. Dear House, The Fidesz faction agrees with the objectives set out in the bill, which is why it will fully support the bill, and we also ask our honourable opposition colleagues to do so. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-26-58	Thank you very much, government. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-06-26-59	Mr President, Dear House, It is not the first time in this cycle that we have a bad taste in the mouth, a two-way proposal that I can say would be fully eligible for its basic goals, because there is a situation where the Hungarian national strategy interest requires that, where appropriate, we prevent any foreign acquisition intention, at least hinder the intention to obtain a market, I would add: it is fortunate to do so in such a way that the market itself is not hurt more than it should be. But we have to say, if, for example, the purpose of the proposal was such a concrete example - that Sirok, let's say, a company that manufactures ammunition, acquired a foreign interest at the same time, and, where appropriate, it would have been in the interest of a nation strategy to keep this very important pillar of this strategic sector in domestic hands, then I say that this is a legitimate basis for debate, then we have something to talk about here, and the professional framework of how these interests should remain Hungarian, how they should remain in domestic hands and in controlled hands. But I also have to say that, in addition to the fact that foreign expansion may, of course, contain a national security risk, it seems very impossible to exclude that, while the probable interests of Lőrinc Mészáros, let us say, in the Mátra Power Plant, while the direct acquisitions of the Fidesz Station in these strategic sectors can be achieved by action, direct investments rather than investments, but acquisitions can be achieved in action, often without any market criteria and market prices, it is very difficult for an opposition representative to assume good intentions, not on the government's members personally, but on this proposal. And I have to say that, while these procurements near the government, which are difficult to ridicule, are taking place, this proposal actually speaks for itself. In essence, a foreign investor, a company should register with the Ministry to get permission to buy and expand, but it is worth considering that if, say, in the county paper market, this happens, and a foreign interest has already gained ground in the Hungarian press market once, how much better it is for us if Lőrinc Mészáros' interests cover the entire market. We could say it's better, because at least it's done on paper and in Hungarian hands, but in terms of its internal political outcome, both processes are worth a heavy bombing. It is possible to relativity which heavy bombing is more serious for the victims, but I believe that fair market conditions could be a viable way in this case, too. Under this proposal, Fidesz will be informed of the potential foreign acquisition, expansion, and in the industries concerned, which can be called strategic enough to mention the energy sector, where a government-wide acquisition of the Mátra power plant could be expected, but with regard to the financial sector or the MKB we would be able to give examples in the same way - we can say that even what counts as a nation strategy sector, industry, interest is missing. Since 2010, there has been an unfulfilled promise of this government, this unfulfilled promise is about creating an inventory of countries, so it is not about a list of national wealth that has been so strangely corrupted, registered and incomplete that you have been able to submit a few years ago, but it is about a complete national inventory of assets, an inventory of countries, that we can say very simplistically how much family silver is and in what context it is, because it has been the subject of serious debates in Parliament over the last few years, but no one has been able to decide these debates in a meaningful way, because the fund has been missing. This is the same as in the course of the budget debate, when, without the n-1, n-2 rule, the government is actually making an invaluable proposal, which is being debated politically, not professional debates. And we must say that after the foreign investor has fulfilled his obligation to notify, Fidesz's economic moonyard has been informed that this seems to be an appropriate or inappropriate acquisition intention, the Fidesz economic lunar can then informally prevent that foreign gain. [[10.40]] There is nothing wrong with me personally if the intention to gain a foreign return is reduced in all cases where there is a strong Hungarian interest or the possibility to build it. This is exactly what we have been asking of you over the last few years, and I have to say that from agriculture to the banking sector, it would be in our interest that Hungarian interests clearly dominate the market. The thing is, [[Towards the pro-government benches:]] Let us look at a veterinary horse, because I can see my fellow Member nodding - there must be agreement between us that strengthening national interests is above all. But if we look at the banking sector, what do we see? We see that on paper the proportion of Hungarian economic interests exceeded even 50 percent, while at the same time the tax called the financial transaction levy, which was called a levy so that Brussels would not have to cancel the debates on the various tax introductions, so this financial transaction levy was pushed on the Hungarian population as a burden of 280 billion, one on the Hungarian people and one on the Hungarian people. So the Government of Hungary did not impose any taxes or taxes on financial transactions in relation to financial institutions; this was paid by the Hungarian people, in a manner admitted by the institutions concerned. And yesterday, Minister of State Tállai stands up and proudly says that it is good, but now it is possible to stop this process by HUF 20,000 a year, and what has been passed on can be reduced by HUF 20,000 a year. So the Secretary of State does not say that the transfer of foreign interests to Hungarian purses will be stopped, but says that we are cutting back a bit from this, and this attitude is unfortunately the government for most strategic industries. So it doesn't bother me if foreigners can't buy into the Hungarian energy market, as it has happened that in eight days almost two entire economic sectors have been taken away, with a guaranteed profit proportionate to assets, under the governments called Balliberal, and along with net classified treason, this country has been looted, in which the government's process, called the reduction of rent, was culminated, which was also, at least, humiliating. After all, if world market price reductions were allowed to ring into the Hungarian market, the Hungarian population would pay much lower fees today than they do at the moment. But we must say that in the basic philosophy of managing strategic sectors, I agree with you. I am fully in favour of the government to strengthen the growth of domestic interests. But the example of the banking sector proves that it doesn't matter how he does it, no matter how carefully he tries to do it. That is why I say that the proposal before us could, where appropriate, point in the right direction and bring blessings to the Hungarian economy, but at the same time we miss the guarantees of this. Obviously, there will be ample opportunity to resolve these doubts during the discussions, the proposed amendments and the detailed debate, but the fact that Fidesz controls the market of foreign investment intentions, so it tells us about a foreign investment intention that is good or not, tells us whether it wants to replace it with its own Fidesz acquisition intention or not, a manifestation of a form of one-party regime that is obviously to be rejected. So that's why I said weird double feelings. On the one hand, he wants to defend his own country against any foreign pursuit, and I think that every good-hearted person thinks that his own country is the first in this imaginary order. But I also have to say that what NER has done in the last eight years in the field of the Hungarian economy, whether it be energy, whether it be gambling, whether it is the distribution of various concessions, land, tobacco, it is quite outrageous, and it provides a perfect insight into what happens when Fidesz-KDNP's economic moonyard acquires sovereignty. Now we're getting to the point that most of the press has been absorbed, but even within this, the people of the economic lunar station are jumping at each other's throats, so nothing is enough. It is perfectly proven that there is no glass ceiling over the Fidesz acquisitions, they are able to want more and more, to jump at each other's throats for more, and if that is what this proposal is about, I cannot support it; if it is about protecting the Hungarian economy, then I can support it. Once again, I would like to stress that there are a lot of days to overcome our doubts, and a lot depends on government communication, a fair debate or at least on the intention that the Jobbik faction will be able to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-06-26-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-06-26-61	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, There is a point of agreement between us and my better fellow Member, because we believe that the proposal is also in the interest of the Hungarian economy, and we are pleased that if any Hungarian enterprise can grow, acquire ownership, we see a kind of prosperity in any Hungarian enterprise, we believe that this is a strategic goal, and we have worked according to it in the last eight years. We believe that security is one of the most important values in Hungary, which is why this proposal is important. In many EU Member States, this proposal exists in various regulations, but it is not foreign to the EU Member States. It is necessary to define what we mean by foreign investors, citizens or legal entities other than the European Union, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation, and other organisations. However, in cases where a legal person already registered in the Member States of the European Union, the Economic Area or the Swiss Confederation wishes to acquire ownership or influence in Hungary in an undertaking which is subject to the proposed legislation, in which he is a national of the aforementioned foreign State or a legal person incorporated in that State, or in another entity, has a majority influence. We believe that Hungary's interest is to invest abroad, but Hungary's protection is all the more important. The proposal provides for notification in five cases: if directly or indirectly more than 25 per cent of ownership is acquired; if the acquisition is less than 25 per cent, but the combined ownership of foreign investors would exceed 25 per cent overall; the acquisition of decisive influence under the Civil Code; the establishment of a branch in Hungary; and the acquisition of the right to operate. Such a notification obligation shall be met by the Minister to be designated in the Government Decree. Dániel Z. Kárpát went out, yeah, no, sorry, he is still in the room; there are references to less than HUF 20,000 in the tax law, so it is not a one-off 20 thousand, but the references below 20 thousand, which are the gas bill, the electricity bill, the telephone number of the families, there are several such items, we think that the Hungarian families are better off with this, it is just a parentheses that you open, I just close. The activities linked to the announcement in this bill are activities linked to strategic, financial, energy, weapons and ammunition production, national security activities, military technology, and the Minister, on the basis of the announcement, examines that the acquisition of property or the acquisition of the right of operation by the foreign investor violates the security of Hungary. It is very important that a ban decision and, here, my better fellow Member have referred to the fact that, as if it were such an arbitrary decision, what constitutes a dangerous decision, what constitutes an investment that violates the interests of Hungary in the case of foreign investment can be made if, therefore, I strongly stress, it is reasonable to assume that the ownership is covered, that it is difficult to control, that it is established or serves to circumvent the procedure. And the foreign investor may, in any event, challenge the decision prohibiting the infringement of the essential rules of the proceedings in an administrative case, where the Metropolitan Court is solely competent for the proceedings. I think that the bill is in Hungary's interest and serves Hungary's safety. We know that the safety of Hungarian voters is a top priority, which was also said on 8 April. Therefore, the KDNP fraction also supports the bill, and we thank you very much for the government's attention in terms of security and investment in this field, so that we can make even more progress in Hungary's security interests. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-26-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Tamás Harangozó. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-06-26-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, There is no sane country and any party representative or party that does not want to protect the strategic interests of its own nation. So far, we've probably agreed on this bill in this room. Both the title of this bill and its communication are to provide the Hungarian government with the means to take action against third-country investors who may pose a risk to national security or economic security and would harm Hungarian strategic and economic interests, for example, in these industries. [[10.50]] I have good news and bad news about this. The fact that such a law is still in Hungary, you may recall that in 2007 this Parliament accepted the proposal, which in fact prevented the intention of acquiring the Austrian company OMV Hungarian MOL, but also in a similar way prevented the purchase of one of the Russian companies in the Hungarian oil industry, and which is suitable for this, is still in force today. There is certainly a big difference between the two legislative proposals: the former gives the energy office the opportunity to make such a decision under the conditions laid down in the law; the latter, which is now on the table of Parliament, gives one of the ministers or ministers full discretion to decide what is and who is a security risk and what is not. This bill, for example, does not cover the rather big problem of Pakson's relatively large investment in a nuclear power plant, perhaps the biggest physical investment of all time in this century - and you are supposed to guarantee that 40 percent of suppliers will be Hungarian companies to protect the Hungarian economy. Although it would be part of a longer discussion that we will actually talk about what has been done to this in recent years, because obviously nothing has been done, and there will be consequences, but this bill, for example, cannot guarantee that Russian companies will not be building the Paks Nuclear Power Plant effectively. You can't guarantee that Russian companies will not buy up Hungarian companies, and they won't lie to the country that they will then have the 40 percent Hungarian supplier background, while otherwise the ownership of these companies and profit will migrate back to Russia nicely. For example, I would add, in any other country, but this bill does apply to investment in third countries. I keep it so softly that you know that these are the countries... I say three minor things: Russia, China, the United States. So Fidesz is preparing to be a minister, depending on what interest I can be cynical: how he gets up, how he gets up that day - decide whether an American investor or even a Chinese investor can invest in these sectors in Hungary or not. And what we think is the biggest problem with this bill is that I can tell you that we think it's going to be a new Law of Law of Law of Law of Law of Law of Law of the Ripper, International Ripper. The main question will be not to whom the ministers or ministers will not grant permission to invest in Hungary, but to whom they will give the money from your past nine years' activity, from 8 years' activity. Who will be the appointed government supplier, who is, say, Russian, who is, say, Turkish, who, in terms of, say, the United States or China, receives permission from the high-level minister, the paper, that he certainly does not pose any risk. And those who do not wish to bring money to Hungary through him will learn that they will not receive permission from the Fidesz government, and those domestic suppliers who can make money to Hungary will be appointed again. I'll leave it to your imagination how much money will move again, otherwise not legally. If your imagination is not strong enough, please think of your residency bond business, where hundreds of billions of people went through offshore companies, which would have been the Hungarian state register. But if the risk of national security is not considered to be well-founded, please think how the bloody hell it could have come to Hungary, I will look at a personal meeting with the Prime Minister, with permission from the Minister of State of the Ministry of Interior, with the Arab entrepreneur, who was otherwise wanted by the FBI for terrorist financing at the time. So if you tell this Parliament or the Hungarian people that it is a guarantee that, for example, the Minister of the Interior or the Hungarian Government will grant permission to whom and to whom not, then let me also quietly draw their attention to the fact that a terrorist has just been captured in the European Union, who has acquired Hungarian citizenship with your courtesy and help. In particular, with your courtesy and your help, because you have been able to do so on the basis of the new regulations that you have accepted here in Parliament. What I would like to ask the Secretary of State, and I am sure that he will give a satisfactory answer, is how the Minister will make his decision. In this bill, there is no orphan voice on the basis of which criteria the minister can decide what constitutes a security risk. I'm asking you honestly, Mr. Secretary, be kind enough to help me with this. The above mentioned lex MOL has very specific, objective conditions. There's nothing here. There's enough here for the minister to decide. But based on what? In order to return to the starting atmosphere, if this were really about preventing foreign interests from appearing in the strategic sector in Hungary and even acquiring them, we would consider it possible to propose a bill where, say, national security services, such as the Energy Office or the Competition Authority, would base the Minister's decision on an objective professional opinion. But please, the Minister's decision on the security risk is a joke. This is a very, very bad joke. And I am sure that it will lead us to what I have just said, that they will not defend the interests of the Hungarian nation, but protect their own economic interests, if necessary, against the Hungarian nation. That's what laws like this are about 100 times out of 100. And if you really don't want to do this, then I really hope that there will be an amending proposal where some normative rule is written about how the Minister can make that decision. There is an appeal procedure in which the Minister's decision can be challenged in court, which the Minister does not even have to justify in accordance with the law. Well, the judge's gonna scratch his head on how to override a decision that doesn't even have a reason. Which doesn't have one objective criterion. Will the judge say that he thinks the Minister was wrong about something at that moment? So the bill doesn't even say that the minister has to give some justification for this. The court will make some decisions, in the worst case, instruct the minister to proceed with a new procedure. Cool. So you're going in again, you're thinking again, and you're telling me again that I think that's true or correct. It is a purely pretend activity, and I think it tells me everything about what is really the intention of this bill. I am also asking Mr Secretary of State: you have constantly spoken plural in your exposé, and this bill does not give much indication of the reason why you have been talking about ministers all the time. Perhaps, Mr Secretary of State, or will you ever share this culinary secret with us - that several ministers will receive this power at the same time, and that in some areas some ministers will defend Hungarian interests and in other areas other ministers? Or is this really going to be the power of the Minister of the Interior, one person, and it was just a slip of the tongue in his speech all the time? I think it would be worth telling us this here in the parliamentary debate. Overall, this proposal is so I think..., so let alone the horse's feet hanging out, but the herder. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to answer these questions first. Secondly, if it is indeed not the intention that we here, in a very, very bad way, say cynically from the opposition benches, but the protection of the people and the nation against all interests, foreign bad interests, then we would like to ask that this be presented in an amending proposal, and that some objective criteria be added, which will put the minister within some clear framework, so that he may not decide at his convenience and pleasure. Otherwise, you will admit that this is really nothing more than to have to line up with a small bag, a big bag and, in this case, an IFA with a platform for his favor and create a clear risk of corruption and national security if this bill is adopted. Thank you very much. [[11.00]]
u2018-06-26-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will continue with the keynote speeches. The lead speaker of the DK Group is Ms Ágnes Vadai. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2018-06-26-65	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/628. I was particularly pleased and hoped for the introduction of the bill on the control of foreign investments in Hungary's security interests. I thought there'd finally be consequences for some cases. Without the need for completeness, I would like to list a few cases: Paks-II., settlement bonds, the cases of the duo Ghaith Pharaon-Tiborcz, the cases of Zaid Naffa or the case of the natural gas trader MET. I thought that the security of the Hungarians was finally important to the party, the Hungarian national interest, and not some stupid government propaganda, and especially not their pockets. My fellow Members, when reading the bill, I was disappointed because the bill is about everything but the following. It is not about Hungary, it is not about Hungary's national interests, it is not about the security and security interests of Hungary and Hungarians, it is not about the elimination of suspicious foreign transactions by state of law. It does not say that criminal foreigners, whoever they do business with, are forced out of the country, and it does not mention it, even though we would have liked to have seen details in the bill, so that those Hungarians who do business with foreigners at the expense of Hungarians will finally go where they belong, go to prison and confiscate their assets. On the other hand, what is T/628 about? Bill No. 1? Sándor Pintér, Minister of the Interior, now Deputy Prime Minister, speaks about his long-awaited super-rights. For some reason, the current wallet and its managers are very fond of everything that's great. We may remember that for years, the management of the internal affairs portfolio has fought hard, even against its own faction, even against its own Speaker for the creation of the so-called super-secret service. For some reason, Sándor Pintér proved stronger than László Fat, because we had the super-secret service. And then they fought for it, and we can see the results of it, so that the internal affairs wallet can oversee a lot of things. It is true that everything in Hungary, from chimney sweeping to cyber security, falls under the internal affairs portfolio. I would add that neither the former nor the latter is really outstanding, and what I can say is that there is about zero performance in the internal affairs portfolio. And then there's this super-law. The Minister, as has been said before, we assume that they are ministers, but I would like to start from what is in the bill at the moment, so the Minister will decide in one person whether the foreign investor is coming or not. You can do this basically in 30 days. Ladies and gentlemen, If a foreign investment is risky, it must obviously be assessed. The internal affairs portfolio believes that he is competent and capable of carrying out this task. I would like to ask you that you really mean this; the wallet that went through the security check on the organs of your subordinates was the Ghaith Pharaon, who was wanted by the FBI for terrorist financing. We are talking about the organs or managers of the internal affairs wallet who will decide on these issues, who lied to us at a committee meeting about the settlement policy, that they had carried out national security checks on those who had applied for a settlement policy, and then, of course, it turned out that all that had happened was that they had watched the person appear in the domestic register. Obviously, I don't have to explain to the Secretary of State what national security control means, but I'm sure there are people who don't know that. So, you have to fill out a questionnaire, then there's a discussion, along with an environmental study. Then more conversations, more data collections, where the person who is subject to national security control has to write down almost every detail of his life, every detail of his life, in the questionnaire, and provide data that is usually, say, not required in a simple checkup. Yet you said that those who came with the settlement obligation had such checks, it turned out that they did not. The Ministry of Interior wants to decide on critical infrastructure issues, in the case of sectors where a foreign investor is a threat, or not, who have found that Szilárd Kiss and Zaid Naffa pose a national security risk, and in the case of Zaid Naffa, the organisation appointed and set up to protect the Prime Minister, TEK, found that it was a national security risk. Yet what happened was that Szilárd Kiss was simply employed by the Minister of the Viewing Minister during the previous term, and Zaid Naffa was sitting here at the time of the Parliament's inaugural session, and after that, when the Prime Minister took his oath. Dear Secretary of State, From this case, it seems that your subordinate organs, or even you, can identify any national security risk, a risk that goes against the Hungarian national interest, indeed, the past period has shown that your own government is not taking these matters seriously. You are the ministry, the heads of the Ministry who, in the Ukrainian pension case, simply condoned the fact that hundreds of Ukrainian citizens have applied for Hungarian residence in order to obtain the Hungarian pension they wanted, all by assisting government officials. Your ministry's task is to protect the Hungarian border and, for example, we see that on the border section of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county almost daily or hot air balloons or small ships or small aircraft boarding, so that day-old police notice that a not-so-heave aircraft has just flown in. You belong to the persons who were recently taken from Röszke, but we also remember the time when border guards were taken from the border section of Záhony, who served that day, so basically the entire border crossing point in Záhony had to be closed. In English: with these examples I wanted only to demonstrate and, of course, to continue the line, that the Ministry has not really demonstrated in recent years that it is able to defend Hungarian national security interests so strongly. Or if he was able to reveal any risks, then we found that there was a higher interest, not the Hungarian national interest, but obviously some kind of government, but to be fair, I say no government: a friend of the Prime Minister, a friend of the Prime Minister, a family interest that overwhelms the interests of the Hungarians in their security. I would just like to emphasise that this is perhaps not the form that should be chosen in order to ensure that the otherwise essential objective of excluding national security risky foreign investments is... I would add: we should also slowly write a law where we filter out national security risky Hungarian businesses, because there is something in Hungary that goes against the Hungarian national interest. You are always talking about the interests of Hungarians, the security of Hungarians, while it was clear that you were interested in everything, the interests of everyone else, the interests of the Russian national interest, but you are not interested in the Hungarian national interest. In addition, they intend to conduct this whole procedure and I would like to quote here the 5th bill. The detailed rules of the Minister's proceedings are laid down in a decree of the Government. So it's the most beautiful thing to get a super-legality with the head of the Ministry of Interior, his current head, all of this by making the detailed rules, and we know how important the details are, not just in a time of government as they are now, but in general, well, I'd like to record this in some sort of government decree. I wouldn't be surprised that this government decree would be so important to your inner circles that they would fix these rules in some secret or secret way that neither Members nor Hungarian citizens would be able to understand the detailed rules. So I could say, for this super-legal part, bravo! So it's a great way for the Ministry of Interior to subdue everything while it doesn't have the capacity, and unfortunately, in recent times, it hasn't shown its ability to detect real national security risks either. What else does this law include, if not the Hungarian national interest, the Hungarian security interest? It contains, of course, the usual fidesz rubber rule, which has already been mentioned here. Because what the bill says is 5. Section 3? [[11.10]] The Minister examines, on the basis of the notification, that the acquisition of ownership or the acquisition of the right of operation by the foreign investor is in breach of Hungary's security interest. - In detail? - Mm-hmm. Maybe some kind of trait? Perhaps you could tell us a few things: what is the content of this, how, under what conditions are you trying to determine this? Or will this work so that if this is the Prime Minister's family, his friend, some kind of kinship, Lőrinc Mészáros, Garancsi, perhaps István Tiborcz's business and he's doing business with someone, be it the terrorist we've seen that there was a time when he was dealing with terrorists or a risky person in national security, that's okay, and everyone else isn't okay? You know, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I think that this bill would be fair to the citizens of Hungary and to the opposition representatives sitting here if it were written in quite a specific way. Put it in here, please. You can add the 5th. § 3 in addition to what has been written, that the minister will examine it to violate Hungary's security interests - that this does not apply to the following persons. And then we'll see very clearly, very clearly. Enter that it does not apply to Viktor Orbán, does not apply to Lőrinc Mészáros, does not apply to Viktor Orbán's friends, friends, relatives and business partners. Because otherwise it's unfair, because the minister will sit down, and for some reason, for some unforeseeable, unsanctioned reason, he will decide whether someone likes him or not. As has been said here: if you get up in the morning and have a good day, you will put the seal on it, and if the decision maker gets up on the wrong foot, you will say that I do not like them. My fellow Members, this is not a rule of law. This has nothing to do with what the original thought is about. While the original idea is basically eligible, of course, because no one would like to have people in the majority in public or in any company who are approaching with bad intentions. That's why I'm not sure what's going on with the settlement bond or Paks II. Finally, what is the third thing this bill is about? The whole process is going to be announced, so the foreign company will arrive, and it would like to acquire some kind of ownership in one of the companies listed in the bill. Yes, I just want to ask you what if a Hungarian citizen experiences that he senses that it is not that a company is coming, but that the state is coming, and the state is providing the citizens of Hungary, the strategic sectors of Hungary, to foreign interests that are not safe for Hungary. So what happens if that pig show up or they're already here? This was also the case, as we have seen, in connection with the settlement policy, what offshore companies have tried and have unfortunately done to sell the Hungarian national interest and to damage the Hungarian taxpayers. That's why 5 is particularly charming for the same person. Paragraph 6 which states that a prohibition decision may be taken if it can be reasonably assumed that, for example, the procedure is to be prevented or the control is to be made more difficult. And here's my favourite sentence, because it's really cute. It's like this, especially if the legal person doesn't actually engage in economic activity in the state of registration, and the circumstance of his long-term economic activity cannot be justified, in particular, by the existence of economic establishments and employees. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary. This case typically applies, for example, to the settlement policy, where those who do not know who they are today, because we do not know because they are well covered up, may even violate Hungarian national interests. This is what we see going through the whole law, and despite the fact that there is a presumption and there is a good intention in us that we think that the pro-government representatives and the government are trying to take steps that really protect national interests, and that is the title of the bill itself, which is, by the way, at the moment when you read through this bill, you unfortunately have to assume that you are here again trying to protect the interests of someone or someone. But that these people are certainly not the Hungarian citizens, that's for sure. That's what this bill says. For this reason, although the Democratic Coalition is in favour of controlling foreign investments that violate Hungary's security interests, we want and support Paks II. We believe that the Hungarian government's task would be to represent the interests of Hungarian citizens, the interests of the Hungarian national interest, and not to represent a business interest in the legislation. This proposal cannot be supported. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK, LMP and Dialogue.]]
u2018-06-26-66	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mr Csárdi Antal. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-06-26-67	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, T/628. The bill tabled under number 1 sets out a very, very important objective and it is a pity that nothing will appear in the text of the proposal for this purpose! Dear House, This proposal has already been tried in the form of a autumn salad law. Then, for what reason, the legislative process was not carried on. Of course, we really know the reason: the two-thirds majority of them did not have the basically national security-profile legislation. Now, however, a legislation with a very similar content is not bound to two-thirds, even though the Fundamental Law itself states that the rules relating to national security activities are laid down by a fundamental law. And this, however much you avoid using the specific expression of the national security in the proposal, is such a rule. Let us look at the content of this proposal. Only with the permission of the Minister will it be possible to acquire more than 25 percent ownership of foreign persons outside the EU for reasons of national security in the taxative listed sectors. The EU, with the exception of the EEA, and Switzerland's nationals, is considered to be outside the EU. Such sectors include the production of arms and ammunition and the provision of financial services, the supply of natural gas and the supply of water utilities. In these sectors, foreign investors should report on their targeted investment in Hungary as well as on their real ownership as defined in the Law on Money Laundering and Terrorism Financing. On this basis, the Minister shall conduct an investigation on the basis of which he may take two decisions: either authorise or reject. Indeed, there can be businesses and I can honestly say this - for which the national security services or the Hungarian authorities in general must have adequate information on foreign investment. For example, I would like to mention Professor Ghaith Pharaon's investments in Hungary, either the encrypted Paks investment, or the Chinese superrail, which is still under design and implementation. We are also aware that there are different authorisation methods in these sectors in different EU countries. The proposal therefore has basically legal certainty and political problems, but they are quite serious. This legislation is particularly interesting when, for example, the Prime Minister discussed military and defence cooperation with the President of Egypt, businessmen close to the Turkish, Russian and Middle East government were given special permissions in strategically important businesses. Furthermore, when Paks II, and the worst deal of the century, the government is indebting Hungarian households to the Russian state for decades. I will not say the part that my fellow Member has just said, because I think it is quite clear to everyone why it is a problem if Hungarian households are indirectly indebted to the Russian state. The Government has not conducted any impact assessments for this proposal as usual. There is no information available on how much ownership will be slowed down by the process of prior authorisation. The proposal also does not show why the value recorded for the conduct of the procedure is set at 25 per cent. If a foreign investor wants to acquire a 15% stake, will it no longer violate Hungarian national interests? Or if three legally separate foreign persons earn 15-15 percent or 20-20-20 percent, will they not violate national interests? [[11.20]] It is therefore clear that the authorisation procedure will be completely inadequate to detect national security risks, since national security or national security violations are not identified. The law sets very short deadlines, and there are no national or national security factors on the basis of which the procedure can be conducted at all. There is no due diligence, there is only one political appointed, i.e. the Minister of the Interior of Hungary, or if we understand the author correctly, one of his ministers will decide on these matters. I think that once again professionalism is not interested in the government, that professional control is repeatedly and more pronouncedly empty and that decisions are made on a political basis. Therefore, the legislation would be perfectly suited to allow only foreign investors close to the government or who prefer the government to appear in these really important sectors. It is important to stress that the proposal puts into a legal gown what has been done so far, that the government may grant special permissions to dude dictatorships in exchange for corrupt bribes, thus crowding out businesses in allied countries. The concerns are enhanced by the fact that nuclear companies have been removed from the sectors concerned compared to the original autumn proposal. The question arises rightfully: has the government already accepted so much that it gives these investments to the Russian State that it does not need the minister's super-legality to do so? Or is that decided on a much higher level than he is? I think, Mr House, that we should also remember what Fidesz's economic policy is like in this proposal, how Fidesz is basically for foreign investors in other sectors. It is a growing phenomenon, which we have long predicted, that assembly multinationals can close and leave overnight. This has happened in Gödöllő, Gyöngyös, Moron, Tabon, and this has all happened recently. However, this will not automatically result in higher value added investments, since there is a shortage of skilled labour, which the government does not provide through its education policy. Your economic model has failed, locked the country into a peripheral role that, if they continue to pursue their economic policy, will become harsher and harsher. According to LMP, the law would give the Minister of the Interior or any other minister as serious as it would completely eliminate any kind of professional control and, moreover, no guarantee factors are laid down in the legislation as I have just described. Therefore, the LMP faction will not support this bill. And he will not support it, among other things, because beyond what has been said there is no guarantee that this bill is not merely a foundation for the fourth part of the Godfather. I think three parts of that is enough. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-26-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Dialogue Group is Mr Tamás Mellar. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-06-26-69	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Being the final lead speaker is a very pleasant thing, for the speakers before me have already said almost all the important things. However, I would like to refer very briefly to what I think is important. First of all, the objective of the law is to control foreign investment from outside the European Economic Area, and the objective of this law is to include, in particular, a taxative list of the sectors, the areas for which this security oversight is to be maintained. And it is also about the degree of influence, the 25 percent limit and the 10 percent limit. These are elements with which almost all the speakers before me agree and agree. So I think that there is nothing wrong with the intention of this law, it is eligible, and that can be agreed. Every normal state, every normal country, strives to significantly reduce or limit these security risks. However, when it comes to the implementation of this whole thing, how it can be implemented, there are very serious problems here, as it is the minister appointed by the government, who examines and weighs, and then decides whether or not to accept this request for capital investment. In my reading, however, it is not a single selected minister, but I think it would be logical that the sectoral minister of the nature of the investments would decide on certain issues, but it is not clear from this law. The whole point of this matter is not that one or more ministers will decide on this matter, but rather on how and on what basis they decide, because in this law there are no criteria, the conditions under which this decision can be made. In the absence of this, I think I see that influence and corruption will necessarily have a very important role to play, perhaps, since there is no insistence on what must be the guiding principle of the Minister's decision. In other words, it is not a norm, but it is a very subjective assessment, on the basis of the Minister's decision. I think there are two ways to get out of this trap. One possible solution could be that the law should be accompanied by a protocol that clearly and clearly describes the procedural order and the test criteria on which the evaluation can take place. I think that it is not enough for this to go into a regulation to be drafted later, but it should have been or should be accompanied by this law, because I think that it can be properly interpreted and appreciated, and then it might be possible to reassure doubters, as well as doubters like me. The other way to do this might be to occasionally call for committees, committees of independent experts to give an opinion on this, and those who could facilitate it could form the basis of the Minister's decision and thus put it within a professional framework. And I think that the convening of such a committee could rely on existing state institutions, such as the Competition Authority, the Energy Authority and others, but at the same time I think that it is also independent experts. So this could be the other solution, which could guarantee that the objective of the law will indeed be met, and that this whole regulation is in the interest of the purpose, and it will not represent some kind of subjective self-interest. Since they are not included in this law, despite agreeing with the purpose of the law, there is no guarantee that the implementation and implementation of this can be appropriate, so that the Dialogue faction cannot support this bill. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-26-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. First I give the floor to Daniel Z. Carpathian. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-06-26-71	Mr President, Dear House, The fact that Hungary's security is the most important thing for them has been repeated from the pro-government benches following my speech by the lead speaker. And since I see that there is also a well-prepared secretary of state in the Chamber, and I believe that the pro-government speakers are still involved in the debate, I would like you to explain where and how Hungary's security has been taken into account in the work on the establishment bond business that is now to be terminated. It is well known that more than 20,000 aliens have been released to our country, the anteroom of the right of citizenship has been provided for them for money, and about 20 of these 20,000 persons, calculated without family members, have been on the grid, a fibre whose professional criteria are at least questionable, and the sufficient screening of which is at least the subject of a joke in expert circles. That is why I would like this clarification to be established. [[11.30]] But another very important point has been made. This was the proposal for foreign nationals, investors and individuals outside the EU. The government is about to fall into the same mistake, which we discussed two cycles ago with regard to earth law. In terms of land law, foreigners outside the European Union were also counted as foreigners, and those inside the EU could easily buy or obtain land in Hungary on paper by hand and by various intermediaries. At the moment, we are faced with the professional question that we have not yet been answered as to how this government intends to defend itself against one of its own within the EU in the event of a violation of national strategic interests. After all, not only from Peruvian, Chilean and Colombian energy collectors, it is worth considering as a national economy, but also from those with whom it sits in a community in a common economic community. That is why this question remains open. Thank you for the opportunity.
u2018-06-26-72	Thank you very much. The next two-minute speaker is Mr Béla Turi-Kovács. Here you go, Mr. Premier.
u2018-06-26-73	This part of the debate is almost philosophical. What is considered to be a safety interest, is it even taxative? The concept itself is of a political nature. What is currently in breach of Hungary's security interests can be placed in a general political position. And this general political situation is changing without interruption. Wishing for a variable to apply a taxative list in a way adapted to the variable, I think it's quite simply unprofessional. Such a list cannot be defined. At times, the United States states which... use all sorts of signs for these states - and then these states will no longer be, and then completely different states will become the same. There will be changes that are quite different from one region to another, and one area becomes a security risk. And another region will turn into a safe area in the coming time, according to my hopes and faith, let's say. The capital comes from one or the other. I ask you, in connection with the law, an incredible foresight about the decision maker is not philosophical, it is almost theological - which allows you to put into the law that these and these will be security risks. Therefore, there is nothing more to be done here than in democracy in general. He's got a warrant for someone, someone. From the people to the government. The government has a responsibility. And you can't pass that responsibility on to others, you have to take that responsibility. And in this law, in this part of my belief, this responsibility must prevail. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-26-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the DK Group, Ms Ágnes Vadai, for two minutes.
u2018-06-26-75	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Neither theologically nor philosophically can I be as qualified as our fellow Member, Turi-Kovács, but I am quite certain that, Congressman, foreign secret service does not provide security for Hungary. So those enemy secret services that have tried a lot in recent years and, unfortunately, thanks to you, have also succeeded in nesting in the strategic sectors of Hungary are a risk. And in fact, you are right that this may be a political debate, and I myself have already argued in this House with pro-government representatives about the activities of the Russian secret service, or its appearance on various Internet sites, where they act in a forgery and thus mislead the Hungarian population, or even the presence of the Russians on Paks, who appreciates this. I personally believe that, after Hungary is a member of the European Union, it is certainly a member of NATO, and for example, the European Union has different sanctions, say, against Russia, perhaps, but not certain, in my view, that the secret service activities of this country are not friendly. Well, maybe we can agree on that. Just as we can also agree that a person accused of financing terrorism or a criminal is not a security for Hungarian citizens in Hungary, and does not represent the protection of Hungarian national interests and Hungarian security interests. I just wanted to say that, of course, there are issues that cannot be put into the law. But the fact that the minister wakes up on his own beard in the morning and decides what is in Hungary's security interests is not the right attitude. This is appropriate, as has already been said, to strengthen corruption and, on the one hand, to make it clear, my fellow Members and Members, that the Hungarian Government is implementing this law in the interests of someone and not Hungarians, so that it is for someone else.
u2018-06-26-76	Thank you very much. Other speeches will follow. Mr Gábor Bányai has applied for another speech from the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-06-26-77	Thank you again, Mr President. I would like to add to what the opposition speakers have said and not to add, but to answer. Fortunately, Dániel Z. Kárpát finally said it, because the idea of who foreigners really are got involved several times, so we are talking about Member States outside the EU and we are talking about the states of the Swiss Confederation. 'Cause you got him involved once or twice at the beginning of your first statement, so it's a good thing we cleared it up. I would also like to tell Ágnes Vadai, Tamás Harangozó that if this was the law between 2002 and 2010, neither MOL, Malév, nor Ferihegyi Airport would have been able to escape the Hungarian national assets, they would not have been able to sell it to Russians, Turks and investors in other states. So it would have been nice to have had this law at the time, because we wouldn't have had to buy back part of this state property, and of course, Malév wouldn't have gone bankrupt. It is very important to mention that the Russians and the former Soviets have been in Paks since the 1970s. So, Pakson, this presence in itself is not offensive to the people there, because they also built Paks I. Now to mix Paks II here, when it's not an investment, but an investment, overall, it doesn't really fit into this law. In addition, it is very important that this Patriot Act alongside the EU, as it currently protects 27 EU Member States and even 28th, also protects investors who come to Hungary. But let's look at the sectors in which investment can come, because this needs to be clarified again. On the one hand, we do not want to allow third-country investors into the military industry, we do not want to let them into our banking system, or we do not want to allow third-country foreigners into our water utility and other utility systems. And I would like to say that if this is not important to you, you should see Serbia. Serbia has huge investments in water utility assets in third countries, almost half of which have been bought up by various interests. I don't want to mention them by name, because it doesn't fall within the scope of our trial or what we have to say. But Serbia is slowly being bought up by third-country investors. I don't think it's bad for us to protect ourselves from that. In addition, I would like to point out that the law continues to be about investment, not investment, property acquisition in Hungarian companies. I would also like to say to Tamás Meltár that the role of the Minister of Interior in this matter is not bad, it is difficult to open up sectoral ministers, because most of the various services operate under the authority of Minister of Interior Sándor Pintér under his operational supervision. So I think it's in the right place for this person or for the Ministry, because the minister doesn't decide on his own, by the way, but it's probably going to be helped by a pretty serious crew. Agnes Vadai asked him what his decision was based on. Article 4 Paragraph 2 of the Act states that, in the notification, foreign investors must present their economic activities to date and attach any documents that may be used to establish the ownership structure of the foreign investor and the legal persons participating in the foreign investor, as well as the actual owner defined in accordance with the law on the prevention and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. So, in Hungarian, there is a legal background to how the Minister can decide. This will probably only need to be detailed with the various ministerial regulations or implementation instructions. So it's gonna be okay. The point is, it's a patriot law, and please accept the government's proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-26-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Jobbik Group, Mrs Varga-Damm Andrea is next. Here you go, Congresswoman. You have the floor.
u2018-06-26-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I'm in a strange position here, because the governing parties and Deputy Prime Minister in my biography have opened a new colorful chapter with this bill. He did this because 30 years ago, I sat in this library, within the walls of this House, for three months, when I wrote the work on foreign investment in Hungary as a dissertation. [[11.40]] After 30 years, I stand here as a representative, and when 30 years before the change of regime we welcomed the forced openness that we needed from Hungary's lack of capital technology and logistics, after 30 years, I get to the point that we have to discuss such a work that is invaluable from a legal point of view in this House and present such a completely unthinkable piece of legislation to the House. Why do I say that it's unthinkable and why do I say that it's invaluable from a legal point of view? On the one hand, because we have talked about it over the last 30 years, at least all the Members who have been in this House in the last 28 years, that when we regulate basic living conditions, when we create legislation that contains some kind of normative behaviour for everyone, we must strive to do so in the highest level of legislation. Not only frameworks or frameworks are sufficient, but also behaviour, procedures, obligations and rights for all should be regulated in the highest legal rule. With this legislation, by empowering the government to create a government decree, it empowers the government to establish rules that should have been laid down in this legislation, we have returned to the legislation of the party state system. It is unthinkable that the basic rules of a new institution of this kind, the conditions under which an investor could at all determine whether it is risky from a national security point of view, should have been introduced in this legislation, an objective set of criteria to which everyone can adapt, and we do not achieve the fact that a minister really wants me to be very concerned about deciding, according to the guidance of his political leader, who in Hungary is safe from an investment point of view or not. I wish to stress that not only our faction, our party, but I myself believe that we must keep all those who may be harmful to the security of our nation away from this country. It's simply not a question. But it is also true that, with such a worthless, unprofessional draft legislation and its practical implementation, this cannot be achieved. Each week, a State Secretary is offended by my negative assessment of the legislation or drafts, but I must say that such an undeveloped, unthinkable and previously justified discussion of any draft legislation cannot be said otherwise. I hear from one of the authors, secretary of state, minister, every hour that he welcomes when a proposal has been preceded by seven-party negotiations, and as such, so to say, he is delighted to confirm that the seven parties agreed on this or this issue, agreed and came to the House with legislative proposals. My question is, why hasn't a proposal so important for the security of our nation been preceded by seven-party negotiations? If this had happened, it would most likely not have been possible for such a generally critical draft legislation to enter this House. Well, if it was something, it would've asked for it. But let's go back a little bit with the wheel of history in the past. Since 1972, a foreign investment has already been authorised under the Socialist regime. Then the finance minister was the owner of these cases. Our country was in a delicate situation, because, whether we like it or not, it had a capital shortage, and imports of Western technologies were a prerequisite for the country's economic competitiveness to be maintained or at least improved. In these rules there were strong barriers, and in the 1985 study, which processed the 13 years before, professionals clearly said that this type of restriction was a barrier to what was the purpose of the legislation at that time and the new system introduced at that time. So what happened? Although in 1977 the rules were eased, the authorisation process was eased, but look at the miracle, until 1988 the hopes were not fulfilled. Why didn't you cash it? Not because certain constraints and administrative constraints make free movement of capital difficult, because as long as there are countless places in the world where capital can invest in a much more liberal way, it will go there. And let me draw the attention of honourable Members to the fact that today Hungary is not in a better position of capital technology and logistics compared to the world's development, and is in no position relative to the world's development than it was 40 years ago. We just explain to ourselves that we have developed so much that we are factors in the world's economic flow. Well, no! We now have exactly the same lack of capital, the same lack of expertise and technology as it was then, but the world has also evolved since then. And even though we see progress ourselves, our pace was not something we could have caught up with or approached the more developed countries in the world. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). It was a law that introduced the investment of foreigners in Hungary, so to speak, a powerful liberalisation, but even then and for that reason, I say that we are indeed 40 years behind this legislation, and we had to ask for permission for 50 percent of the shares. Of course, the market welcomed it, because, as I said, debt is huge, and the lack of capital is even more. What happened over the years? And I would like to draw the attention of honourable Members to this. The legislator did not remove the 50 per cent limit as an permissible option because any foreign investor was already so safe, but did so because the abuse of this legislation has become commonplace with the stroman system, the stroman system. Already in this House, the topic of the Mátra Power Plant has been discussed today, although in a new dimension, the slowly becoming the richest man in the world, Lőrinc Mészáros, but in connection with the initial privatisation of this Mátra Power Plant, if you like to remember, because there are some Members over 50 in this House, you may remember that at the time of its privatisation, an old man who was asked in vain about what he liked to buy and how it worked was unable to answer anything. Suddenly, after a few weeks, he turned out to be a stooge of foreigners. So I have to say, here in this House, we can face the fact that in the history of the same economic factor, we are going back to the same river, but we cannot, in principle, go back to the same river. This is an important issue, my fellow Members, because we can be strict, we can wait for foreign persons serving foreign interests not to ring in certain strategic sectors by chance, but at least let us do so by saying that the foreign investor is a decent investor because there is one. Let us not discourage such a proposal, which lacks objective criteria, because in a few years' time we will again face the fact that we have set such limits that we have returned 40 years in time and have closed ourselves down. I'd like to ask you a few more questions. The general justification is that there is diversity in the legislation of the Member States, and there are many places where such legislation exists. Of course, there is an elemental interest in every country not to enter its own economic bloodstream by organisations or persons who work contrary to the interests of the country in question, and their sole purpose in acquiring economic property is to harm that country. Of course, there is such a thing as poor wording, not with such an unfollowable set of rules and not with such a huge flaw! And let me tell you one more thing. If we have data and the Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior is sitting here, he can only say without breach of secrecy - that there are organisations and persons who wish to acquire economic interests in Hungary in this way, then I apologize for not including in this legislation the condition that, if data on such persons and organisations is generated, a monitoring system can prevent their acquisition. [[11.50]] It is also possible to legislate for this. It is possible to legislate for everything, only to be coherent and to be adapted to a given life situation. There's a very interesting question: why isn't agriculture involved? ! Isn't it a strategic sector? Isn't earth our greatest asset? Isn't it the food on the ground that Hungarian citizens take for their survival? Is it not possible to invest in agricultural areas by someone who is hostile to, or offensive to, our country? Why isn't agriculture there? Agriculture is probably not there because those whose economic interests this bill serves already own all the land. This is, for example, the issue from which it can be clearly concluded that the purpose of this bill is not the title, but that certain economic interest groups in these fields, which are part of the legislation, can create hegemony, monopoly and, in practice, sit on areas with which the entire population of the country and all economic interests can be controlled, limited, influenced and difficult. So this legislation goes far beyond its purpose. In practice, this legislation aims at an economic shadowing, a complete blockage of sectors that, although not included, will limit their margin of manoeuvre. One of our fellow Members just told me, or perhaps more, about the issue of the settlement policy. My former Fidesz colleague says that, but, please, the persons and organisations in the European Union and the Swiss Confederation are exceptions, and the settlement policy has nothing to do with this issue. Of course it's got something to do with it. ! Well, 20,000 people were settled from the third world, who became Europeans. So this 20,000 settlement bondsman, if he wants to acquire ownership of a holding company, that won't apply to him even if he's hostile to our country. I need you to think about this. You created this situation. By then, the person buying the settlement policy, whom we hear here in the House almost every day, has become our opposition, and, by the way, he is now an EU citizen, thanking you very much, is no longer subject to this law. Don't we want to filter out our known major enemies with this rule of law? Where are we, please? ! There are also a few other aspects. However, in recent weeks in this House, we have voted in favour of legislative proposals on economic and trade agreements with countries outside Europe. What about bilateral agreements, what about our multilateral agreements, what about our trade defence agreements with countries outside the European Union and the Swiss Confederation? Did you like to harmonise them with this rule of law? How will they resolve the conflict between this legislation and our conventions? We know that this legislation will be voted, not a question. But think about how many legal problems this proposal will have, raising it to a legal level and putting it into practice, making it impossible, creating difficulties and destroying our international authority. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-26-80	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. From the LMP Group, Mrs Márta Demeter is the imager. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2018-06-26-81	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr State Secretary, we are once again meeting here between the walls of this House in a debate on basically security issues, and in addition to being Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, I still cannot understand why, as Minister of State for Local Government, you are involved in these debates and not a member of the age group involved in this security area. I am, of course, pleased that there is someone here at all on the part of the Ministry of the Interior, because, unfortunately, now we can be happy about this too, but I think this is a good example of how seriously these proposals are being taken. Unfortunately, what we are about to see is not true to its title, because what its title refers to would be a very supportive objective that this proposal should be about the control of foreign investments in breach of Hungary's security interests. This would be supported in itself, but the problem is that it is clear again from the content of the proposal, from the norm itself, that this does not correspond to the security interests of Hungary's economy or of Hungary's country. So, again, we're talking about creating rubber rules that, by the way, don't have any detailed rules. I now, especially here, have doubts about it, and I am not sure that you know at all how you will want it and because I would like to fill this legal framework precisely. However, it is increasingly certain that once again, the business interests of the narrow groups linked to government actors will be put at the forefront and not the safety of Hungary. This law could have been a so-called anti-Pharaon law, compared to that, it became a lex Pharaon, which basically legalizes every case we've seen in recent years. So, once again, if you had political intentions and will, which, unfortunately, does not actually come together, a bill that is in mind not to have economic influence in Hungary, a person or a group of interests that has otherwise committed economic crimes or other types of crime, it would be possible. It is very important that such interest groups should not be involved in strategic sectors, and this should be addressed. This could be a real challenge, by the way, and I think it's a real challenge. By the way, we see examples of this which are exactly what you are doing, and here we can really list the real estate purchases of Pharaon from Paks, and then I will go a little further, but it is important that these are resolved, these are the existing loopholes, which we can now call huge security holes in Hungary's security system, finally close and have a well-functioning system. Unfortunately, that's not the point. What are the problems with this proposal, in addition to not serving the purpose you have in mind? It seems that you will be installing these jo-designs to an eye minister, the Minister of the Interior, or you have mentioned in your speech that to the ministers of the sector, this does not seem to be a decided fact either. In any case, someone or someone will have over-licensed driver's licenses. What they're going to decide on is absolutely undetectable, so it's going to be completely uncontrollable how interest groups like you are lobbying. There are a lot of abuses and loopholes in this bill, and many things have been said here that if someone acquires a lower share of ownership or through stromas, there are a number of things that the Members themselves have listed here, for about an hour and a half, or that one minister or several ministers will have a huge responsibility. By the way, I hope you're aware that this has a criminal liability implications. The question is how you decide, how you weigh, and then the ministers dream about who can invest and who can't. Where are the implementing regulations at all, so what is the concept of konkret? I can't see any of this. We can conclude from this that once again they will wrap you in such a security and national security robe, while the content is all about the private business interests of the Prime Minister and the government actors, and this proposal is not about Hungary's security or real economic, national interests at all. [[12.00]] There is no guarantee that you will not abuse the information you receive in these procedures. And what's the solution? If you really want to put some substantive proposal on the table, for example, the role of committees in a law that actually deals with security controls, that foreigners and those who have committed a crime should not have such economic influence in Hungary, in strategic sectors, but that parliamentary committees should also have a very important role. Objective conditions should be defined, and indeed guarantee elements should be set. Such a guarantee element would be, for example, the bill submitted by the LMP as an amendment to the National Security Act, now several times. This is a proposal that would guarantee that during national security checks and at all during their day-to-day operation the national security services would not do their job under party political influence, which would be guaranteed by the Hungarian people if this proposal was adopted, and that we would strengthen both the system of parliamentary control, including the powers of the National Security Committee, we would like to make this a parley committee, which means that an equal number of pro-government and equal number of opposition representatives will participate in such a parley committee would guarantee a much stronger control than that currently exists. It is also necessary to establish an independent peer review body, which is also an excellent international practice, in several countries, and also in allied countries. These are guarantee elements that would actually ensure the Hungarian people that controls can take place, and secret services work in a way that is really in the interest of the people and not in party policy. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Unfortunately, it should now be noted that, on the one hand, security controls are not functioning at all and, on the other, national security services have become completely self-propelled. What proof is there that the controls are not working, and that this bill will not solve anything, and what you are about to legalize? I would also like to bring the issue of the settlement policy here, because 20 000 people have obtained a lifelong residence permit, and for example, in connection with this law, it is also suggested that the money launderer of the Assad regime, who has been specifically granted a lifelong residence permit under a settlement obligation, could invest in Hungary, for example, because we are talking about a criminal here. This bill doesn't seem to be able to stop it. Or there are those criminals who have obtained Hungarian citizenship through simplified naturalisation, who can also try to invest in Hungary, even in strategic sectors, but how they would try to eliminate them, because this proposal is not suitable at all. I would like to bring to you the case of Ghaith Pharaon, who made some so-called investments in Hungary, both in connection with the Postabank headquarters and by investing in Zichy-Hadik Castle, and by the way, by buying a plot next to Viktor Orbán's house. It is unclear where this wealth goes, for example, that Viktor Orbán's son-in-law will benefit from it; I think that we will see this in the future. In any case, an international criminal wanted to finance terrorism could invest, so much so that the Hungarian National Trading House, and so also the Hungarian State, created a joint venture, and you found nothing wrong with that. It may also be interesting that, since Ghaith Pharaon, by the way, is an honorary consul Zaid Naffa who, by the way, failed the national security review, brought him here to Hungary on two occasions, assisted by the Hungarian authorities in order to come here, the question arises how many other investors stand in line at Zaid Naffa in order to come to Hungary and participate in all kinds of investments and even in strategic sectors. Given that the Minister of the Interior himself pointed out that Zaid Naffa's system of relations itself is a national security risk, the question is whether this bill offers a solution. I'm telling you now, Mr. Secretary, it's not at all, and these are the cases that should be resolved and eliminated. I would like to bring another matter here: if this bill is pushed through Parliament in this way, as usual, despite opposition criticism, then I am very curious that you will review, for example, the case of the Stadium Office. The Stadium Office, which is located directly above the Stadium Metro Station, was sold to an Israeli-George businessman and owns an offshore network, so this office building was owned abroad, and it has an absolutely uncontrollable network of companies behind it. Moreover, there is so much information about this businessman that Mr Habony is a very, very good friend of his and is also involved in the settlement bonds. Here, I would like to draw the attention of the Ministry of Interior, although we have already had a chat with the Minister about the fact that giving up the Stadium Office abroad is a very serious national security risk, as we are talking about critical infrastructure, twice. On the one hand, metro line 2 also functions as a shelter and on the other is that it is a basic public service. So if, in this form, the bill is adopted, which is unacceptable to us, then I will be very curious that, for example, in these cases, it will take concrete action. Otherwise, there is so much about this law that it is not just the government's intention to take meaningful steps to ensure the safety of the Hungarian economy and the Hungarian people, but it has only one purpose: to create rubber rules with which tight group interests, government, business circles can do well, and to twist and twist the rules on a particular matter, as you think. I would also like to draw your attention once again to the fact that every minister who is involved in this will take on a great deal of responsibility and, if they do not amend this law, it does not seem that they will - this responsibility will, yes, extend to criminal liability. So LMP can't support this law. Thank you.
u2018-06-26-82	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Márta Demeter. I salute my fellow Members. The representative of the Democratic Coalition, Ms Agnes Vadai, is next.
u2018-06-26-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The debate now looks very much like the opposition representatives enumerating the arguments on the basis of which this bill should be withdrawn and a new bill should be tabled on the basis of the original purpose of the bill, and some of the pro-government representatives are obviously just sitting here, spending their time or waiting for the next bill. The only fellow Member of Bányai from the Fidesz faction was the one who tried to help the Minister of State of the Ministry of the Interior, who is sitting here, who is obviously not very... not his world, so we are not angry with him, so we understand that his responsibility is the local government. We would have preferred Károly Kontra, although yesterday's performance casts some doubt on his competence, but I would have preferred that Minister of Interior Sándor Pintér come to the trial of this bill. So, my fellow Member from Banya was trying to help the Ministry of the Interior get a clearer picture of this bill; I can tell you, my fellow Member, that it has failed. So not only didn't you succeed, but you managed to make things a little worse. You listed a number of investments and investments that you said would have been good if this bill had existed then. You mentioned the case of Malév. The Malév ended in 2012, Congressman, if I remember correctly, but I'm sure I'm wrong. [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: He talked about acquiring property!]] I'm sure I'm wrong, you were in the government, and this company was removed from the register in 2018. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] You mentioned the thing at Ferihegy Airport. I would like to inform you that your last detail was sold to the investor during your administration at Ferihegy Airport, with full agreement, stating that the privatisation is complete, so you supported it. [[12.10]] But the best part is Paks II. I may even agree with you that this is not an investment, this is not an investment; however, there must be some category under which this fits. In my reading, you are right: this is a net betrayal of Hungarian national interests. Paks II. It is because you know that under the contract concluded in secret in 2014, it will cost the Hungarian taxpayers HUF 4000 billion, according to the current exchange rate, this I don't know, investment, investment, you will answer or help me find a better word, that it is still Paks II. what - 20 percent of which is financed from domestic funds, and 80 percent of which will be paid out of the loan granted by Russia to Hungary, i.e. 100 percent, with Hungarian taxpayers' money, while, as my fellow Member Bellozó has already said, domestic investors and suppliers can participate in this investment, 60 percent is obviously someone. In addition, together with Paks, we know exactly, and in recent years we have talked a great deal about the continued presence of the Russian secret service within the walls of this House. Obviously, you do not attend a defence committee meeting, there are some of your fellow Members who walk, although they speak very little, even less than you, some of you have not spoken at all since you were a member of the committee, and it would have been nice to have you at the committee meeting and to talk at least in a closed session about how the Hungarian Government is constantly facing Hungarian national interests when it comes to serving Russian national interests. Yesterday I spoke in the walls of the House about the Kaspersky Lab virus control program, which your colleagues in Brussels already consider risky. Nevertheless, the Hungarian Ministry of the Interior, the Hungarian Government, does not consider this to be safe. I told you that there was a wallet that said that he would remove the Kaspersky Lab virus exterminators from his own machines, because he would not tolerate foreign national interests appearing in the Hungarian defence wallet. I also welcomed this, and I sincerely hope that the Hungarian Government will follow the practice of the wallet in these matters, which I cannot name. But it seems basically that if it is a business in the interest of your friends and friends, then the Hungarian national interest does not matter. You may be here, please, any bill, which has already been said here by several opposition representatives, that the minister decides in one person; obviously there are experts who will help you in this decision. But I would like to emphasise once again that there are not one, not two examples where the Hungarian secret service failed, for example, because it allowed someone in Hungary who was wanted for terrorist financing by the FBI, or who was very well cleared out of security in the case of Szilárd Kiss or Zaid Naffa, but you, more specifically your leaders, managers and bosses, said that no matter what the experts say, Szilárd Kiss can be applied, who represents a national security risk, and that Zaid Naffa can be allowed into the Parliament building and even deal with it. While the Counter-Terrorism Center, I would like to emphasise once again, the Counter-Terrorism Centre, whose fundamental task is to protect the Prime Minister personally, quite rightly, I support that there should always be such an organisation - this organization has filtered out security risks and the Orbán government has faced this security body. So no one can say that we have anything to do with TEK, this organization was set up by you. You do not even trust and trust the activities of the organisations you set up. It is clear from this that in these matters, they will not decide on the basis of some method, who is a foreign investor, who is a risk to Hungarian citizens, and who is a threat to the security of Hungary, but who wants to decide on this in a completely ad hoc way. But most of all, it seems that this law is written on someone we don't see yet, in order to make it easier for people to go into strategically important sectors with whom your friends, relatives, family members can deal from Lőrinc Mészáros to István Garancsi, from István Tiborcz to Árpád Habony. And that's perfectly clear... Obviously, this is not his area of expertise, he said that it is perfectly logical for the Minister of the Interior to have this authority, since he has all the secret services or the secret services. Congressman, that's not true. The Constitutional Protection Office, obviously not your super-secret service now; you may remember my speech that the super-things are very much loved by internal affairs, super-legality, super-secret service, super-many tasks, but they just don't do it super well at all. So the Ministry of Interior is based on, say, the Constitutional Protection Office, and the technical secret service serving him, which means the Secret Service. The Information Office will correct me if I'm wrong, as far as I know, it's under the State Department. Please, the Information Office is the one whose job is to obtain confidential information from abroad and foreign sources. The Military National Security Service is obviously under the Minister of Defense, and although we have seen an attempt and we do not know very well in this current world of Orbán who will be instructed, but we have seen an attempt - that in the Prime Minister's area there is still some secret service, I do not know, a sorcerer's kitchen, to try to bypass the defence wallet, for example, in secret service matters; I would not necessarily recommend this particularly in the field of military technology or in connection with dual-use products. At the same time, it is very clear that the government will simply push through this bill as many other legislative proposals in Parliament. Here was the question of responsibility. My fellow Members, Mr Turi-Kovács, are no longer here to discuss this issue both theologically and philosophically, because he has moved in this direction in relation to security risks - of course the current government has the information on which to make a decision. There's no argument between us. Therefore, in every case the government and the pro-government factions, the pro-government imagers have greater responsibility, not only political, but also criminal and civil liability. On the other hand, I have never disputed between the walls of this House that all Members who are sitting here bear responsibility regardless of party standing and exercise this responsibility in principle have responsibility for Hungarian citizens. When I ask you to withdraw and rewrite this bill, that is the responsibility. We are responsible for ensuring that Hungary is not served by foreign powers that wish to desecrate the country, foreign powers that have apparently been engaged in hybrid warfare not only against neighbouring countries but also against Hungary for years. You fellow Members certainly watch Facebook, read the news, and see that very strange sites appear there. You know, behind this is typically the Russian secret service. A special unit has already been set up in the Czech Republic to filter out such websites and inform the public. What do we face in Hungary? Every time I asked the Hungarian government to take such steps to take joint action against the activities of the alien, foreign, and hostile secret service, I was told that we would take the necessary measures, and the next day, if I accidentally turned on the Hungarian television, I saw that the news-revealing television was taking over the news from the news producer's Russians. In particular, news produced by the Russian secret service is published in the Hungarian public television, which is financed by Hungarian taxpayers' money. Look, I accept that there is a political interest in you going clearly on a political path you have designated. There's obviously an argument between us. But I do not dispute with you, unlike you, that you are responsible for your country, for the security of your country, for the Hungarian national interest, for the Hungarian citizens. This has been said many times in committee. When it comes to meeting the committee, all ministers dealing with security talk about how important the Hungarian national interest is, how outstanding the security of Hungarians is, and how they want to cooperate with opposition representatives in this, because there are also some of the pro-government representatives who do not betray us immediately if we do not agree. I would therefore like to ask you to withdraw this bill, even to initiate a discussion on how it should be clarified and made clear what the direction is to eliminate the risk of security for foreign investments, and I would add to that proposal, which I have already mentioned: I think it would be very, very important that it should not be so purely for countries outside the European Union, in fact, for national security, because that is what this bill is all about - but, indeed, for Hungarian investors, we will also look at the national security risk of their acquisition and their substantial acquisition. [[12.20]] It has already been mentioned here that it is the energy sector where this seems to be a problem. But we also see other areas where large-scale ownership serves only the interests of some capitalist interests or even orbánist interests. So my request would be to withdraw this bill. Thank you very much. [[Bence of Turdai applauds.]]
u2018-06-26-84	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Ágnes Vadai. There are two-minute speeches coming up. First, I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Harangozó, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2018-06-26-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to play a role-playing game here. [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties. Z. Carpathian Daniel: Don't dress up for him.]] I thought I'd throw the party a little bit, because my fellow Members are sitting here very gloomy. Let's pretend we're in the Hungarian Parliament! Let's just pretend that the Home Secretary has submitted a bill and that's what we're debating. Dear Secretary of State, Let's pretend you're a secretary of state and you represent a government in a parliamentary debate. Please also respond in the debate to some very specific questions that I have asked. [[Happy István: What are you in the game? Clown?]] So once again, why did you use a plural in the debate, one or more ministers will receive this power? Another very important question is how the Minister will make his decisions if the law has no binding and objective powers and limitations. While my third very specific question does not affect the municipalities, it is true - that the legislation which has been famous for the lex MOL, which has affected the laws on energy and natural gas, is still in force today, on the basis of which, as I have said to you, MOL's acquisition in both the Austrian and Russian directions has been prevented, and what contains very specific rules today, Mr Secretary of State, what kind of relationship it will have with this law. So, if the minister, by the way, in his discretionary power, finds that someone is allowed to invest while this law does not allow it, then what will happen in this situation, and, of course, vica versa? That's a big question. So if the minister doesn't allow it, while under another law in force it would be a legitimate act, how would you resolve that? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you.
u2018-06-26-86	Thank you, Congressman Bellozó. I will give the floor to Mrs Andrea Varga-Damm for two minutes.
u2018-06-26-87	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add one more question to my previous speech. When there was a debate on the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law, several Members suggested that, during the establishment of the administrative courts, the requirement in the law that and the cases that the law would refer to a judicial forum would be about what matters. One of the important cases has arrived, and this is the initiation of an action in the event of refusal of this authorisation procedure. Can one of you, my fellow members of the Government, really imagine that there will be a judge in Hungary who will have such cases before him, and which does not have objective standards in law, on the basis of which the requests had to be considered, and then any judge will dare to repeal or annul such a decision? Well, there's no judge who takes that responsibility. Because there may be information about organizations, individuals, that they are engaged in activities that threaten our security, but that data will not be presented to either the minister or the judge. And if a judge destroys such a license ban, in the event that it is proved later that the organization or person is in danger of endangering the safety of our nation, will he wear the radium of it? Well, you know as well as I do that there's no chance. So there is an administrative court where friendly judges go, there will be a procedure that prevents legal remedies, and then there will be a type of case that does not have any objective criteria in the law, and we will then expect these judges to decide in the interests of social justice and our nation. I find it almost impossible. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-26-88	Thank you, Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea. For two minutes, Mrs Márta Demeter, Congresswoman LMP, will take the floor.
u2018-06-26-89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. I would also like to ask you to provide meaningful answers. I would like to draw your attention to the practice of the last few years that you have been doing. They are bringing in some laws before the House, which they do not want to have any substantive debate about, they are saying that you think this is all about, the opposition is going to give a number of criticisms, it is going to ask the many questions that we are waiting for, and we really wanted to discuss Hungary's security interests - and then you are going to wait for this process, you are going to wait until Mr President closes the debate, and you may answer, perhaps not, a few phrases, and we are no longer able to respond to that. So, Mr Secretary of State, if you are taking this bill a little seriously, unfortunately, this is not what the norm text shows, but let us give you the chance to be optimistic - you are answering our questions now, in the course of the debate, and you are saying that we can still reflect on what you can, of course, answer again, so you have the opportunity. I would very much ask you to do this, to prove to you that the safety of Hungary is a little bit important, or that the objective that you have formulated in this bill, and that it should not happen, which is 99.9 percent of the cases, that you wait for the President to close the debate nicely, and then you will say in three sentences the communication phrases that you want to push through, either in the press or in the public, and there is no way for anyone to react, at the very least we can yell at the court. So be kind, speak to him now, during the debate.
u2018-06-26-90	Thank you, Congresswoman Márta Demeter. For two minutes, Mrs Ágnes Vadai, DK, will be on the floor.
u2018-06-26-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Several of my fellow Members have referred to the fact that the basic method of the last few years from a government perspective at the Parliament meetings is that it is happening to read the proposal, not usually the one who is the expert in the field, but another secretary of state, who is obviously put in a difficult position by his own government, the pro-government representatives of course support the bill in any case, even if it is a bonny nonsense, and opposition representatives are trying to persuade the government to continue a meaningful dialogue on these issues. In recent years, we have talked a lot about the safety of Hungary, either at committee meetings or outside the walls of Parliament. You have already compiled a wide variety of false statistics on Hungary's security, but this is indeed a bill that, I think, concerns fundamental national security issues. Silent is not professional. Silentness is inconclusive. It is an expression of the fact that for a moment, the pro-government representatives and the government are not interested in how voters who did not vote for you feel about the world of Hungary. Of course, you, in the majority's possession, make whatever decisions you want. We've seen them do this over the years. Your responsibility covers not only your own friends, families and friends, but also your own voters, who are specifically... [[Nacsa Lőrinc: There are many!]] There are many, but there are many, Congressman, who did not vote for themselves. But you have betrayed even your own voters, for example, in the national consultation, where you allowed sensitive information through Yandex to be transferred to Russian secret services. You didn't care about that either. It's one thing that you don't care about opposition representatives, but you don't respect your own voters, and that's outrageous.
u2018-06-26-92	Thank you, Congresswoman Ágnes Vadai. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát betterman in a 15-minute time frame. [[12.30]]
u2018-06-26-93	Mr President, Dear House, Before the government colleagues reach out for antihypertensives, I'll calm them down. I'm not gonna take the 15 minutes. Perhaps it would be pointless for those Members who are sitting in this Chamber, my colleague from KDNP, who is new to this House, to note that the fact that many have voted for you has not given you any authority to wear a large vest, to be able to fly. [[Dr. András Aradski: You tell me? That's insolence!]] and to lecture people who also represent other voters [[Dr. András Aradski: Where have I been elected? What district?]] . I mean, we can all sit in this room because some of the voters have invested their trust in us. This should be coupled with modesty and, for example, by giving at least that respect, not to us, personally opposition representatives, but to the hundreds of thousands of voters behind us, my party, more than a million people, in terms of putting a proposal on the table here, and we have comments on this, a constructive dialogue for the country. This isn't happening. I am not blaming the Secretary of State sitting here because he probably did not apply for the task himself, which does not necessarily fit in with his mandate, and he is probably in a very awkward position by his government to take part in this debate. But the fact is, Mr State Secretary, that there has not been a back and forth dialogue and discourse here, the opposition representatives, if you will, bid on each other, while the government cowardly does not participate in this debate with a two-thirds mandate. What else do you need? How much authority is there for a spirit of courage to participate in a debate in the Hungarian Parliament where your proposal is concerned? You would like to ask for trust, vote. The fact is that I am afraid that the fact that you have put Mr. Secretary of State in this situation is the result of the fidesz logic, because while you have already won elections with xenophobic rhymes and campaigned for months, we must tell you how you acted in the other space of reality. You have tabled a bill to allow a mass import of labour from the third world to multinationals and others in the previous cycle. You have tabled a bill to buy Hungarian people's real estate in bulk by means of a new type of corporate method, also in the previous cycle. And if someone doesn't want strangers to be deployed in Hungary, aliens should appear in national strategic interests, it's me, so I don't need to be convinced. But that two-gallon politics, which even goes hand in hand with high-pitchedness, I'm stunned. So you would be able to defend this position in a credible way if you were involved in such debates. If there were no butter behind their ears, they would be involved in these debates and would try to convince us or poor wanderers, knowing the truth, that you are indeed carrying the Philosopher's Stone. But this isn't happening. I would just like to warn you that this is a very counterproductive attitude, and this is also a violation of your own electorate, and I would like to say once again that, while you have already been able to submit a proposal on the issue of mass labour imports, you have been able to submit a proposal for the acquisition of Hungarian people's real estate, and we are again living with suspicion that there is a lobbying force affecting the law of the government, and all the elements of this lobbying force, all the details of which you may not even be aware of. Please pay attention to this, because history will link this responsibility to your names. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-26-94	Thank you, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur if he would like to respond to what was said in the debate. I give the floor to Secretary Tibor Pogácsás.
u2018-06-26-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Firstly, I thank the pro-government Members for their support and, of course, I thank all my fellow Members for their participation in the debate. Although I perceive that the debate itself was not essentially about the draft law, it was a general government criticism, a general political opinion, and, to a large extent, an attack by the Ministry of the Interior and, in particular, the Minister of the Interior. I would note here that the law does not name the Minister of the Interior, that if the Minister of the Interior were to receive these tasks, the government will decide later, but the draft law itself did not target the Minister of the Interior and did not aim solely at the Minister of the Interior to carry out these tasks. To criticise the activities of the Ministry of the Interior and the Minister of the Interior, I would add that, after all, during the term of office of the Minister of the Interior, the country has reached the point that it is one of the safest countries in the world. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: That's not true! They're based on false news!]] After all, during the work of the Minister of the Interior, we have come to the conclusion that in Hungary, registered crimes have been halved, that the police's investigative activities have improved significantly, that the detection indicators have more than doubled. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Because they don't investigate!]] So, I think that these criticisms lack the foundation, while the country has been under extremely strong pressure, and the protection of the southern border has been carried out by the police, which have been carried out by police officers on the border. Meanwhile, Hungary's security and internal security have been preserved, and the police have worked as professionally as possible in any situation, regardless of the insults the police have received at any mass event. So I thank both the police and the staff of the Ministry of Interior for this. The opinion that there is no possibility of appeal against the decision, since the written justification is not necessary, is factually not the case. If you refuse to invest here and whether there will be more ministers or, in particular, which ministers or ministers will carry out this activity, you will have to give a written explanation to the Minister. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Secret!]] As well as detailed procedural rules, the government decree states. The investigation is not a national security investigation, but a security investigation, so there is no need under the Fundamental Law for a two-thirds regulation, so it can be regulated in a simple law. It was Mr Csárdi's suggestion, if I remember correctly, that if you have already bought, or if more foreign investors appear, how will it happen? Fortunately, it is clear from the law text that there is a summation, so it is not possible for foreigners to try to acquire property in these cases in several ways. As it is important that nuclear power is regulated, since it is included in dual-use items, so there is no need for specific regulation of this item. On the part of Jobbik, it has been suggested in several ways and in various directions, on the one hand, that it is exaggerating that we want to regulate the acquisition of property by foreigners, aliens, non-EU Member States, i.e. external third countries, and, on the other hand, this has been limited. One thing is certain that, as a Member State of the European Union, we obviously cannot touch or intend to do with the free movement of capital within the European Union, so we did not want to limit it. All legal institutions have been set up in the bill, so they are not subject to regulation in a separate regulation. It was a very important question on the part of Andrea Varga-Damm about land. In 2013, Parliament decided to protect agricultural land, and Jobbik did not vote for it, and even if my fellow Members remember, they took the pulpit at that scandalous meeting and tried to prevent the legislation on the protection of agricultural land from being passed by the majority of governments. So it's kind of weird and cynical that he's trying to point back at this. The law, as in any case the resulting law, does not affect retroactive relations, and here I draw the attention of the Members who, in the majority of speeches, thought and dreamed of abuse, would not work if they so much wanted to do so, because it cannot be regulated retroactively. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Yes, you can. You have to put it in the law.]] The Ministry of Interior seeks to negotiate all legislative proposals, in the case of the Socialists in the previous term it was virtually impossible to convene seven-party negotiations or even six-party negotiations at that time, since they did not wish to participate. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That wasn't a negotiation!]] We try to ensure the necessary consultations in all cases. [[12.40]] This was the case with the Stop Soros bill, where we held seven-party negotiations in two rounds. And I am particularly sorry if Members personally have a problem with my activities. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: It's okay with you.]] I don't think it's your opinion that's what's driving me on this thing, but rather that of the electorate. And they supported me in a very large number of ways. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-06-26-96	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, The 2013 XXII on the Hungarian Energy and Public Utility Regulatory Office follows. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Government referral T/626. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Kaderjak, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, author of the item on the agenda.
u2018-06-26-97	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office is an independent regulatory body operating in the field of public utility services in the energy sector. The budget of the Office shall constitute an independent title within the budget chapter of the Parliament. This also indicates the strength of his independence. The bill is the so-called Status Act for the Office, the 2013 XXII on the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office. It seeks to amend the law. The amendment is essentially intended to strengthen the guarantee provisions for independent operation in accordance with the independent regulatory body status of the Office and to lay down specific rules on the administrative procedures of the Office. The proposal amends and complements the rules on the duties and administrative procedures of the Office in the light of the experience of recent years. Such changes include, inter alia, clarification of the tasks of the Office in relation to energy statistics. Re-establishing the legal option to suspend the Office's proceedings is of the utmost importance for the Office's procedures, since there are cases where more than one procedure is in practice in parallel on the same subject and one decision is a prerequisite for the other. A typical example of this is the involvement of the public in competition investigations, such as the issue of merger. More effective enforcement of the needs of consumers in civil law can be achieved by the institution of public interest enforcement, which would be granted to the agency as a result of the amendment. This allows the Office to sue in the public interest in the event of infringement of the licensees or the service provider carrying out the activities it supervises. As the former head of the Energy Office, I know from experience that there are numerous consumer complaints that the Office encounters, in the handling of which this new procedure would give the Office a great deal of help in order to ensure that consumer interests are protected more effectively. Other changes to the employment relationship of the staff of the Office regarding the use and pay system of the Office's revenue are another element of the proposal. Increasing the internal regulatory autonomy of the Office in relation to the status of civil servants, the benefits that may be granted, recruitment policy and further training are in line with the legislation on the other independent market regulatory body, the National Media and Infocommunications Authority. I am convinced that it is an essential condition for the proper professional functioning of the Office that civil servants' salaries in the Office should not be significantly lower than that of the companies it supervises. On this basis, I ask the Honourable Parliament that the 2013 XXII on the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office. T/626. Please support this bill. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-06-26-98	Thank you, Mr. Peter Kaderjak State Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Erik Bánki, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-06-26-99	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/626 in front of us. I would like to share some thoughts with you on bill No. I think that not only the Fidesz and KDNP faction, but the factions of all parliamentary parties can support this proposal, since they are primarily in the interests of the Hungarian population. Why am I saying all this? I think this because it does not want to please consumers, that is to say, to give an independent office under the Parliament, independent of the government, as much chance and opportunity as possible in order to protect Hungarian families effectively and effectively. I suppose so, but at least I trust that my fellow opposition Members can agree with that. In many cases, we have seen irregularities being committed against consumers by the weight of each service provider, up to a hundred thousand. In not one case, there were also a large number of vulnerable consumers among the deluded and damaged households, who in particular need protection from individual agencies and public authorities. As early as 2013, at the start of the reduction, it became clear that nothing is sacred to foreign-owned multi-company companies in Hungary. In order to maintain their permanent extra profit before 2010, they were prepared to charge millions of Hungarian households by accident higher fees, to fail to provide consumers with adequate information, or not to include or enforce the benefits contained in the legislation on the reduction of rent in the accounts, or even to bring the Hungarian people to court. However, the government noticed this problem in time and realized that only with the help of a strong agency with the necessary degree of authority can Hungarian families represent their interests in an appropriate manner, and only with this help can we achieve that they will not lose their debts, but that we can protect the Hungarian families by complying with the laws adopted by the Hungarian Parliament, imposing those laws on the service providers and ensuring that they are respected or enforced. I am pleased to report to you, ladies and gentlemen, that the Hungarian Government has done everything in this area over the years. Thanks to the broad cooperation of the Hungarian people, the successful work of the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office and the strong action of the government, we have managed to keep the policy of reducing the rent to this day, and the Hungarian consumers still pay one of the lowest service fees in Europe. It was also thanked the Consumer Protection Authority and the Energy Agency itself, which took part in a very proactive way in the effective protection of consumer rights. Ladies and gentlemen, As I have already pointed out, over the years, it has become clear to everyone how important the work of the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office is for Hungarian consumers. However, let us look at what further changes are necessary in order for the Office to continue to function as an effective body for the protection of consumers' rights, which, in addition to effective legal protection, creates mutually fair conditions between consumers and businesses. It is clear from the norm text that the primary objective of the proposal is to establish specific rules on the procedures of the Hungarian Energy and Public Utility Regulatory Office and to strengthen the guarantee provisions for independent operation according to the legal status of the independent regulatory body. I'd like to get to one of these matters right away. This regulation would partially clarify the Office's tasks in relation to energy statistics and, on the other hand, would again provide for the possibility of applying the provisions otherwise repealed with effect from 31 December 2017, which concerned the suspension of the Office's procedures. The re-introduction of these provisions is important for the Office because in many cases there is a situation where there are parallel proceedings on the same subject, and decisions to be taken in parallel are a prerequisite for decisions not to be taken before each other, but can be discussed at the same time by the Office. Therefore, if necessary, in parallel proceedings, it can suspend or terminate the procedural arrangements of certain procedures until it is able to take joint decisions on these subjects by examining in a proper manner the parallel procedure. I think that this proposal can overcome this problem. Another positive element of the bill is that, if it is adopted, the Office will be able to enforce more effectively the civil rights needs of consumers. This would lead to the introduction of a new element, and this is nothing more than an institution of public interest enforcement, which would be easier and more widespread than at present to defend consumers' rights. Among other reasons, the establishment of the regulation is justified by the fact that, in many cases, in the course of consumer enforcement practice, the Office has been given attention to behaviour by licensees and service providers where there are typically small and identical legal bases for infringements and, moreover, in bulk. It will therefore be possible for the Office to restore the infringement of the rights arising from such consumer deceptions in the future, since the legal institution for the enforcement of claims in the public interest will allow the Office to sue them in the event of infringement of the licensees carrying out the activities it supervises or of the service providers. [[12.50]] Another important element of the bill before us is the clarification of the agency's pay system and the regulation of matters relating to the employment of the staff of the Office. Thanks to the amendments, the employees of the Hungarian Energy and Public Works Regulatory Office are able to receive a fair wage, which is acceptable in the energy sector, which will not only be a retention force for them, but also a significant motivational force, which will enable them to do more effective, effective work in the interests of Hungarian families. My firm position is that the amendment of this pay system will improve the quality of the agency's work, and once again, if it fails to do so, unfortunately, the process that is visible today, as the market has been sucking it away, is sucking away those who have been working in the office for many years and have been working effectively in the office for several decades, thus making the office less effective. The proposal also includes an amendment to the rules on the use of the Office's revenue, according to which it would reduce the rate to be paid to the central budget from 40 per cent to 30 per cent, so that it would be possible for the Office to use the fines it has collected to provide information to Hungarian families, to detect violations against Hungarian families and to better manage the procedures. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the bill before us is a fully consumer-friendly package of measures, to which I believe all groups can freely vote in favour, since this bill clearly serves the interests of Hungarian families and Hungarian citizens. I therefore call on the fractions of this House to support the adoption of this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-26-100	Thank you, Congressman Bánki Erik. I now give the floor to Mr Lajos Kepli, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2018-06-26-101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, If we do not share the hurrah-optimism that my fellow Member, Mr Bánki, has presented here, but we can agree that there are points in this bill, points in this motion that we consider to be eligible, and this has also been indicated in the preliminary negotiations. The Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office currently has hundreds of cases, and over a thousand complaints have been investigated over the past few years concerning the abuse of service providers. And it is really very important that, if we are talking about the energy sector or the public utility sector, so that the abuse of service providers can be curbed in some way, as this is causing consumers a great deal of harm, often without being noticed. Overinvoicing and other problematic cases often occur without or late consumers finding out that they have been damaged. So if we go in the direction of the government's desire to change this and strengthen powers, whether by means of public interest enforcement or otherwise, it is, of course, eligible for us. However, we do not want to, and we will obviously pay attention to this later on, what will be the path and fate of this bill after its adoption, if it could serve as a basis for distinction between the service provider and service provider; in Hungarian, by means of public demand enforcement, we would not give, but would want to abuse the office. We still have the fears about this, but perhaps we can say, as a sign of our goodwill, that we trust that public interest demand will serve only the interests of consumers in the future, and that these actions will serve precisely the purpose that the government has set out in the explanatory statement, so that the agency can stand up for the interests of consumers in as many of these cases as possible. In fact, public interest enforcement as an instrument will serve this purpose. Another part of the proposal, which has also raised some doubt in us, is the free establishment of the salary base. We also discussed during the discussions that we do not want to support a proposal with our vote, which will then serve as news in the press about the million-dollar salaries at the Hungarian Energy and Public Works Regulatory Office, which would make the majority or a large part of society uncomfortable. Just as it has recently appeared in the press, they will increase the salary of the head of the energy office to HUF 4.5 million and the deputy to 2.5 million. Of course, we know that, and I don't want to go through any of the popular phrases and demagogy and especially the fact that in the competition sector, we have very high salaries in this area, and this office has to keep up somewhere. The essential issue is always that these benefits are proportionate to the benefits and salaries of those who work in similar areas in other offices, and that there is a similar level of life experience, education and other qualities in the competition sector. And that, of course, there is a ceiling, because every time we give an authority to the head of an office to be free to determine the salary itself from the regulation of public service officials, contrary to the provisions of the law, this concern also arises. Of course, there is a framework for this agency, which the budget provides for it, as it has been said here that an independent body, an independent body, is the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, at least according to the legislation, and it has its own budget, and the part which it can use to pay is clearly given, but what salary it establishes for each head, head of department and official will be entirely within the authority of the head of the office from now on. The second is the magnitude of the revenue to be paid to the central budget, that the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office will now be able to manage over a larger fund, reduced from 40 to 30 percent. We would certainly like to avoid any possible misuse of this bill, whether in terms of public interest claims or the establishment of salaries. [[13.00]] Of course, we can't avoid that. We are an opposition party, we stand up here in the debate in Parliament, we give our opinion, on which Mr State Secretary will obviously respond. However, it is the responsibility, responsibility and competence of the government to use this mandate in the future. And, of course, there are parts of this regulation that require two thirds of the majority, which you can accept without the votes of the opposition at present, because they have the majority required in the Parliament. However, we still consider it important to vote to indicate how much a particular bill actually serves the interests of citizens, how far forward it is, and how Jobbik can be integrated into its own policy, its own programme. Regardless of whether we need our vote to accept it or not, we are considering it professionally, we are considering the decision politically before we make it, and we are not going to give a natural consent to a bill in which the least germ of doubt arises in us, that this may not serve the purposes that are written down here. I can practically repeat myself when I say that there is a need for consumer protection in this current consumption-oriented world, in society, and that there should be a much stronger, much stronger protection of consumer rights than at present. After all, they are exposed to the self-consciousness of service providers, if you will. Most of the time, the consumer is not a legal person, it is easy to bring him into the forest, so to speak, does not always see why he has to pay so much for that particular service, or the service provider has to pay something extra for the amount he expects. In contracts, the fine prints are often not read, only signed. Many times, not even the capitals, let alone the small prints. Basically, as I said, we're dealing with a consumer's supply of services that is self-absorbed. Of course, it is also a positive thing that civil society organisations serving consumer information can be supported by official fines received. Here, too, the bill has made a difference in what purpose the fines can be used for. These mainly allow the payment of grants for sport, cultural or consumer protection purposes. It's very important, but right now, we still can't sit back. We cannot sit back very much, because there are still many abuse of service providers and abuse at the expense of consumers every day. Indeed, in this area, and I said that I cannot share the hurrah-optimism that my fellow Member Bánki Erik has a good deal to do, and we still have work to do. We also encourage the Government, Mr Secretary of State, knowing that it is an expert in the field, a renowned authority in the field of energy and public utility regulation, who actually understands the area he is doing as a secretary of state, I ask you to try to enforce it as much as possible during his work as a secretary of state, because we are still very far behind in this area, we have a lot to do. If we want the Energy and Utility Regulatory Office to actually perform the task on which it was created on paper, it was created, which would really be important to protect consumer rights, and to protect Hungarian people, Hungarian citizens and small people from the abuses that are peeking at them today, then here the parliamentary faction of the Jobbik Movement for Hungary will be a partner in the future. If we see that there is real professional work going on, and indeed there are debates in Parliament that are not based on the cheap political demagogy that is typical of today, but are really about the professional nature of the legislative proposals, and we can have substantive debates, and we also get answers to our questions in the debate, of course, our attitude will be much more positive than when we dealt with the several-hour substantive points made by the opposition in a substantive rejection or in a few rounds in the closing words. So that's about all I could have said about this bill here in the speaker's speech. Later on, I'll do my additions, if I see need, then I'll do it. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-26-102	Thank you, Congressman Lajos Kepli. I now give the floor to Mr András Aradszki, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2018-06-26-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The 2013 XXII. governing the status of the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office. There is an amendment to the law before the House, which is what we need to discuss. However, before examining the substance of the bill, allow me to express my view that the Hungarian Energy and Utility Service Office has shown in recent years a performance that requires us to say that the value of the office is the value of Hungary. Its value is also in the sense that it can serve the interests of the customers concerned at the same time, protect the interests of the customers concerned, and on the other hand it is able to serve the great goals of national strategy, which the Hungarian government, the Hungarian Parliament, is able to serve. It is also capable of establishing appropriate, proactive and internationally recognised legal acts in order to achieve, for example, a successful reduction of the rent for Hungarian citizens, without any major obstacles or major shocks. He was able to manage and recognise at international level the government's efforts to take back our privatized energy system into Hungarian ownership in the mid-1990s. So I have to say that, in addition to his statutory activities, he was able to gain an authority that it is worth emphasising in front of the Hungarian Parliament. The Agency's activities cover gas supply, electricity supply, district heating, water utilities and waste management. This is too general, and it also shows the importance that it actually regulates the strategic area of the Hungarian economy and controls their legitimate and proper functioning. This includes dealing with individual customers, but includes system operation, approval and authorisation of development options, taking into account the implementation of the Hungarian energy strategy. I had to say this because the bill that has been tabled will serve to make the work that has been done, the successful activity that has been done so far, even better, as we hope. On the one hand, it serves the aspects of customer safety, customer friendliness, when we are talking about introducing a new institution in the proposed proposal, the institution of public interest claim enforcement, which serves at the same time the kind of legal certainty that we cannot achieve in many other areas except through the use of this institution. In particular, when the agency detects a large number of irregularities and irregularities affecting a large number of clients, up to millions of customers, the introduction of this institution does not leave the clients alone, but the Office acts itself in matters that are detrimental and unfair to customers, and does not leave people in a dominant position, against more professional, legal and other professionally prepared providers with higher capacity. It does so by not withdrawing the right of customers to individual administration, in accordance with the proposal, but does not limit the fact that, if there is a problem area that is detrimental to the client, but the Agency does not believe that this is such a level that it applies to the institution of claims in the public interest, the consumer is able to provide a remedy for himself individually and independently. [[13.10]] I think it is a very important area to put the statistics in order, because so far it is almost ex lege, so the agency continued its statistical reporting activities outside the law. This statistical activity is very important, underpins strategic decisions, underpins economic policy decisions, and provides information on how we compare consumption patterns with countries with similar economic parameters, prices, different uses of energy sources, the proportion of renewables, the proportion of other fossil or nuclear energy consumption. The same applies to other areas, i.e. water utilities and district heating. I think it is important to stress that there is a sensitive part of this proposal, which is also politically sensitive, namely the provisions governing the powers of the President of the Office and the remuneration. The two are connected. It is also related to the fact that if this huge task is performed by an independent and stronger office in its organisation, we can guarantee with greater certainty that the Hungarian Energy and Public Works Regulatory Office will be able to carry out the tasks required by the legislation, be able to represent Hungarian interests in an appropriate manner at international level, and thus also protect the interests of Hungarian consumers. Obviously, this also requires the availability of adequate and adequately qualified people. My experience also dictates that it confirms that in the field of energy and other public utilities, there is a very high absorption effect on the market. In order not to have the consequences that the Office is unable to fulfil its basic task, it is clear that it is necessary to ensure an adequate wage level. With regard to the concerns of opposition parties, all I can say is that the kind of personal salary to which the proposal is addressed will be determined on the basis of the decision of the heads of the Office, of course, against the expense of the staff. Here, the heads of the Office must consider how well and effectively the organisation can function, but in what key position and key knowledge are needed for this efficient and good operation, and may be subject to this kind of personal allowance. This will be the responsibility of the President, and it will also show how independent and independent this office can be, in a way that is almost unique to the authorities. I think that, in view of this, the proposal can be supported. It can also be supported because, as I have just said, a wide range of tasks require highly knowledgeable, well-prepared people. The operation of the Office shall not consist solely of official activities. The successful operation of the Office also requires appropriate economists, lawyers, asset valuers, creative personalities capable of forming a strategy, knowledgeable people, evaluators and analysts, who can account for the consequences of their decision and its weight in the long term. In this respect, I think that this proposal is forward-looking in terms of pay and remuneration and in terms of strengthening the autonomy of the Office; it can be exemplary. There are offices, specifically the National Atomic Energy Office, which has a similar weight and a similar role, and there is also this kind of knowledge and absorption effect, which needs to be compensated by appropriate regulation, similar to the draft law submitted here. I must add that when we read those multipliers from the point of view of the President and Deputy President of the Office, everyone says that there is a significant wage development potential in this matter, but we do not read the content of the text currently in force, according to which the base is the average earnings of the previous year. In the event that the unexpected, unwanted case, if the average earnings are reduced in our country, which I hope will be reduced in the next time, until the Fidesz and KDNP govern, then the wages of the heads of the office will also be reduced. What I am trying to say is that we have a system behind us that not only offers unilateral benefits to the management and employees of the office, but also indirectly receives recognition of their activities or receives negative recognition if their wages are reduced due to a reduction in average earnings. I believe that this solution can be exemplary for similar organisations and, therefore, I see that the proposed bill can be accepted politically, both professionally and in terms of wages, and that the Christian Democratic People's Party can therefore support the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-26-104	Thank you, Congressman András Aradski. I now give the floor to Mr László Varga, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2018-06-26-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The mood or tone of a debate does not always lead to a conclusion on the content of a concrete proposal, and of course, it is also a general rule that pro-government representatives, let us say, highlight more favourable aspects of a proposal that are more favourable to them. They either don't talk about the rest or they talk about it in a different context. And as an opposition representative, let me make some critical comments partly on the presentation and partly on the following things. Obviously, with regard to the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, the amendment on our table affects two large areas, if you can say. One of them is, let's say, a subtitle or slogan in your interpretation of the need to provide greater freedom, independence and more money to the office. This is obviously part of the fact that less money is to be paid into the central budget from the amounts received from the fines and from the administrative service charges, and can also be used in a much more informal manner. The question is why this is too much freedom, and what is the purpose of the extra income in this case. This is where it has been said, first of all, in the speech of my fellow opposition Members - that there will be a greater freedom to establish salaries and benchmarking. I agree that this can also be irritating for the citizens of Hungary, and it can also provide an opportunity to establish irritating wages, especially though this is clearly settled by law on the salary of the President and Deputy President of the Office, which is indeed particularly shockingly large. I would like to say that the legislation raises quite a lot from a shockingly large point of view. I must say that these issues are not among the most important problems in Hungary, which I would like to say. About $4.5 million will then be paid to the president of the office and then to the vice president, $3.9 million. I understand, and very many reasons have been put forward for this extraordinarily high salary, but I would like to suggest a similar enthusiasm for the pro-government representatives, for example, to increase salaries in public companies for simple workers, especially as regards the elimination of disparities between parts of the country. [[13.20]] I am thinking, for example, of how much less people in Eastern Hungary may earn in the same job as in the capital city or Western Transdanubia as in the case of public companies. I think it's more worthwhile to deal with this than the exact amount of money this office's president, vice president, makes. Obviously, it is difficult to support this, but such outstanding salaries from the opposition may be understood, but I think that is also the way people feel when they hear this debate. The other is what you say is innovation, and of course, there is obviously something here about the possibilities of public demand enforcement. This is the second group I'd like to talk about. I get it. So far, it has been possible to contact the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office with various announcements and comments. It is not as hurrah-optimistic a good opinion in my group as some have said here, but I would like to say that in two cases our experts and representatives have turned to the office, and I have two specific cases to say. In one case, the office found very quickly that the universal supplier of state-owned natural gas did not violate legislation by delaying the implementation of the winter reduction, which was clearly not in the interest of citizens. That was a very quick decision indeed. However, a decision on another matter has not been reached for a very long time. Here, a number of areas of the country, and especially the county of Peace, were affected with regard to the monthly dictating that the gas consumer's gas meter had to be dictated on a monthly basis, and this was announced to the universal service provider here to Main Gas, and they received a monthly sub-account which, according to experts, clearly did not correspond to their actual real consumption. Now, about our announcement in this context, we can say that a very rapid debate on jurisdiction was not so fast, but a question of jurisdiction took place, because the agency transferred it to the Consumer Protection Authority, and then the authority returned it to the Agency in September 2017 - and we have not been given a proper answer to the specific question concerning a very large number of consumers, in which obviously these consumers pay more than they should in this month's dictatorship system. It's an unfair, incorrect procedure. I would like to express my hope that, hopefully, with the possibility of asserting demand in the public interest, the Office will be more effective and will react much faster in such cases and, in any case, in the interests of consumers. For the time being, we are not entirely satisfied with the two concrete announcements in this regard, nor can consumers be, which is an even bigger problem than what our faction or our representatives are thinking in concrete terms. I would also like to put a third case on the table here, since there is already a possibility of public interest enforcement here on the table. I live in Miskolc, I was born in Miskolc, and I've always been political in the interest of the people there, and I've represented the inhabitants of the city in private and on a list, but that's how it's going to be, as long as I'm dealing with politics. There has been a very serious innovation in the use of geothermal heat in Miskolc over the past 15 years. This has been used in district heating. By the way, it is a process that started before 2010, a process that was then initiated by the then city leadership with the intention of significantly reducing the district heating bills of the Miskolc concerned, and, of course, the costs of public institutions and much more. Then, after 2010, a different pricing system came into the public and the system. In this context, I have also repeatedly interpelled experts on the issue - that the Miskolcs will not receive the benefit of the district heat, at a district heat price, through geothermals that they could receive. After all, this earth heat is available there in terms of local innovation, local intention, and it would be a significant relief for residents there. Opinions are divided, some experts say between 20 and 40 percent that this could reduce the cost of district heating in Miskolc, and I could even reach the neighborhoods; some technology could help this. Therefore, such a price reduction would be possible. All the time, so to speak, I've bounced off my comments on this issue, and the Miskolcs haven't had what they could get in years. I mean, they're paying a lot more than they're actually paying for district heat, in my opinion. It is also necessary to amend legislation to this effect, so I understand that, and I do not think that only the Office can resolve this issue, but if we can talk about public interest claims, I say that in the interests of the Miskolcs, we must put this in order. Moreover, this type of rigidity in pricing, for example in the area of district heating, does not serve local innovation. It does not serve to reduce, where appropriate, the use of gas or to reduce other solutions, such as innovative use of earth's heat in other areas of the country. So I said my doubts. In addition to the fact that there are forward-looking points in the proposal, I think that there are many points that can irritate the population. This, I think, is necessary to change it, to change it in the following ways. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-06-26-106	Thank you very much, Congressman László Varga. I now give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2018-06-26-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The LMP is very critical about the amendment of the law, and I must also say that we are distrustful of the Hungarian Energy and Public Works Regulatory Office. The LMP did not even support the establishment of the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, and we do not agree with the fact that the government entrusts the supervision of non-compatible areas to a large organization, bringing them together in a large organization, or without professional expectations, to an unreplaceable leader chosen solely on the basis of political loyalty. We believe that time has justified our fears, because the unparalleled office has not been able to prevent an increasing proportion of the energy and public services sectors from becoming a monopoly of government-wide oligarchs, nor has it been able to prevent successive market anomalies. The most serious market disturbance, of course, is the reservation. Today, Lőrinc Mészáros and MET, which has grown greatly with government help, are also the largest players in the market, and the office which, according to the law, would be responsible for providing consumers with a higher standard of service is increasingly concerned with serving the interests of the Fidesz Economic Moonyard. Unfortunately, this is also the direction of the current legislative amendment. There is a consumer protection leg to rewrite the office legislation, at least on paper, because in practice we have seen that these licenses are used instead to put party-friends and business partners in the position to push out real business players. It is a new option to address problems caused by public interest needs, consumer issues and problems, as well as by service providers. As a result, the Office will be able to enforce consumer interests in its own right, in a court of law, but we know that this is a two-edged weapon, because this new instrument can also be used to make market players impossible. So you have to be careful with that. We have serious objections, just like our opposition counterparts, regarding the rewriting of the rules on the remuneration of the office's staff. The employees of the Hungarian Energy and Public Utility Regulatory Office would be excluded from the rules on civil servants, which will affect their income, in addition to the relaxation of certification requirements. [[13.30]] Without top ceilings, you can earn virtually anything you want, you can definitely get multiples of your current income without having to provide a well-defined professional performance for this outstanding wage. The government argues that the higher wages of the competitive sector, including those supervised by the Office, would have to be compensated for in this way. LMP cannot identify with this approach. If the government fears that the officials of the office will move to the leading positions of the energy industry, then it should finally adopt the long-awaited conflict of interest and revolving door rules that make such harmful professional migration impossible. A European survey has recently been carried out of the rotating door phenomenon in the energy industry, which mentioned Hungary as one of the worst examples due to its justified lack of restrictions. In Hungary, the law may be passed in parliament one month, the next month it will be fined on behalf of the state authority, and the next month it will sit in the chair of a regulated company. Therefore, if regulation is applied, it is not the wage ceiling and professional requirements that need to be abolished, but it is necessary to provide for time intervals and other constraints that prevent similar conflicting situations. We are afraid that the Orbán government intends to use the office as a more pronounced vader parking lot than ever before. It is likely that only 30 percent of supervisory fee payments will enter the central budget instead of 40 percent in the future, and the fines collected could be spent on themselves, spending some 200 million forints of public money on the remuneration of party cadets instead of justified budget expenditure. This is not supported by the LMP. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-06-26-108	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck. I now give the floor to Congressman Bence Tordai, the lead speaker of the Group of Dialogue.
u2018-06-26-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, It is quite peculiar to read in a bill that Fidesz would strengthen the independence of an agency, an institution. You too are confused; yesterday, a secretary of state could not tell the difference between his presence here on behalf of the parliamentary majority or the government. In fact, it doesn't really matter whether the government or the parliamentary Fidesz subordinarily assigns an office under two thirds, it's completely nonsense to talk about its independence. This independence, so-called independence, seems to be being strengthened by creating a new MNB: once again, a buddy will be given an institution that will be capitalised with a great deal of public money and then will be given a free hand to spend it on any kind of field trip or other function or purpose that does not serve the original purpose. So from now on, this whole regulation and its direction cannot really be taken seriously, much less because, in recent years, the Energy Agency has failed to perform its function well, and I was still very subtle. Fidesz practically won the 2014 election by waving a reduction in the rent on the people, which turned out to be an increase in the rent: between 2013 and 2017 Hungarian families paid an average of HUF 70,000 more than would have been justified on the basis of market prices. Where was the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office and its predecessors then? Where were the Fidesz institutions when the interests of consumers, Hungarian families, really should have been protected? Where were you when 70,000 forints were pulled out of the pockets of the Hungarian people as extra profit, and then, before the 18th election, humiliating 12 thousand forints? We also explained in the campaign that the MSZP-Palogue Association sees an immediate reduction in overhead costs as absolutely realistic, that market prices would be financially justified, taking into account current gas and other energy prices, up to the average consumption, a 30%, but otherwise multi-band reduction would be justified and necessary, as we can see that Hungarian families spend the most on overhead in European comparison, or at least we are among those whose overhead costs are the highest share of their income. So there is a lot of work to be done here, the problem is that these problems cannot be solved by raising the salaries of the heads of the MEKH, and this amendment does not answer the concerns of the Hungarian people, so from now on the Dialogue cannot support this. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-26-110	Thank you very much, Congressman Bence of Tordai. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I don't see anyone applying for a two-minute speech. There are no other representatives to speak. Dear Parliament, As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur if he would like to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Dr. Kaderjak on Peter's signal:]] Mr. Peter Kaderjak, State Secretary, says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-06-26-111	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, First of all, I thank the pro-government speakers for their support for the proposed amendment of the law. These speeches were in line with my conviction, our conviction, the opinion of the National Ministry of Innovation and Technology that the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office plays a fundamental role, plays a role in the protection of Hungarian energy and public utility consumers, manages its independent market regulation function in a responsible manner, and is a key institution for the regulation of Hungarian energy markets, thus overseeing sectors with hundreds of billions of HUF revenue in order to protect Hungarian consumers. I would, of course, like to answer and respond to some of the points raised in relation to the proposal. The first such point, which Mr Kepli has also raised from Jobbik, is that the possibility of enforcing claims in the public interest which the MEKH would now receive should not be abused, but can only be used properly. Of course, I fully agree with this wording. It is important to see that the Hungarian Energy and Public Utility Regulatory Office no longer deals with specific consumer protection issues, these issues belong to consumer protection supervision, but it meets many complaints of this type, it has met before, and in such a case the possibility of the Office for effective action was very limited. He was able to go ahead with a unique fine, but in fact, the operation of the office was covered with cases. The opportunity now given to the office, I think, is an opportunity that you can live with, if you can, and if you want to. Of course, you may not be able to use this effectively, but of course, the energy office is under the supervision of the Parliament because it has a reporting obligation for the Parliament - and the Ministry will also monitor the operation of the Energy Office to make sure that this serious new opportunity will actually benefit Hungarian energy and utility consumers in the first place. The other question that has been raised, and what has been discussed many times, is the question of salary and the question of whether there is a ceiling for this benefit, there is some limit on how much the office's executive officials and employees can earn. It has already been said here in the debate that, of course, there is such a limit, this limit is high, according to the proposal, it is indeed 15 and 13 times the average gross monthly earnings; these are very high figures, but of course they represent an effective limit. And I would add that it is true that these benefits are in proportion to market wages, in fact in this sector, I can say that they are well below the management benefits of the large international companies with whom our Registrars must participate in very hard debates every day, especially in order to protect Hungarian consumers. So this is a question that is now on the table, and the aspects that have been said here must be considered by the government, I think. [[13.40]] Congressman Varga mentioned the district heat issue in Miskolc. Of course, this issue is an issue which does not fall within the scope of the present proposal. I myself am a miskolc, and I am happy to be at the disposal of the Member to continue the discussion on this subject. Perhaps there is a point to which I would like to respond, which we have heard from the representative of the LMP, a certain rotating door regulation, which suggests that it is not really the salaries that should be raised in order to strengthen independence, but rather the rules on conflicts of interest of the heads of the office, of its employees, and the possibility of a more regulated entry and exit from the industry into the office. I would like to draw attention to the fact that under the current rules, the President and Deputy Presidents of the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, if their mandate expires, will not be able to place themselves in licensed companies operating under the authority of the Office for a year. This is fully in line with international practice. So I think that these types of conflict of interest rules are now part of the status regulation of the Energy and Utility Regulatory Office. I'd like to thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-26-112	Thank you very much, Mr. Peter Kaderjak State Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Next up is the 1996 CXVI on nuclear energy. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Government referral T/624. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Kaderjak, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, author of the item on the agenda.
u2018-06-26-113	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill initiating a very focused, focused amendment of the Nuclear Power Act essentially complements the current legislative provisions on independent expert organisations. The proposal includes rules on the registration of independent expert organisations, on recorded data, on the disclosure of data content, which are required to be laid down at legal level. On the basis of the proposed amendment, an independent technical expert organisation that employs at least one person with an independent expert qualification in the field it intends to carry out. This amendment extends the scope of persons whose independence from the expert or expert organisation is to be ensured when an official authorisation procedure for nuclear installations is carried out. On the basis of the bill, the registration of independent technical expert organisations will likewise be the responsibility of the Hungarian Chamber of Engineers of Patinás for the registration of independent experts of the natural person. Its independent expert activities are authorised by the Chamber of Territorial Engineering, as defined in the Law on Design and Expert Engineers and Chambers of Architects. To sum up this proposal, I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament that T/624. Please discuss and support bill No 1. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-06-26-114	Thank you, Mr. Peter Kaderjak State Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Gábor Riz, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-06-26-115	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Dear Secretary of State, The bill before us includes the concept of an independent technical expert organisation in the Nuclear Power Act in conjunction with the regulation of an independent technical expert. As set out in the explanatory memorandum to the proposal, multi-sectoral authorisation procedures may require the acquisition of expert advice from independent technical expert organisations capable of assessing several disciplines in addition to individual experts. In order to allow this to happen, it is necessary to supplement specific rules for expert persons involved in proceedings. It is proposed that only an organisation with an expert qualification in at least one field will be able to carry out expert activities. The continuation of independent technical expertise and the registration of independent technical experts of the natural person are currently carried out by the Hungarian Chamber of Engineers and the Chambers of Territorial Affairs. It is proposed that independent technical expert organisations will also be registered by the Chamber, which will provide sufficient assurance to ensure the necessary professional skills of the organisations. In addition, the proposal lays down rules of conflict of interest to ensure the independence of expert organisations, which ensure that no external influence can be exercised in licensing procedures. The provisions of the submission concerning the duration of the register are in accordance with the provisions of the Act on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information concerning the processing of personal data. Dear House, The complex authorisation procedures for the Paks investment will require the involvement of organisations with appropriate professional skills to ensure that all energy, security and other important aspects of the investment are properly implemented. The proposal contains the safeguards necessary for the functioning of the expert organisations and will therefore be supported by the Fidesz-KDNP fraction, and I ask you to support it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-06-26-116	Thank you very much, Congressman Gábor Riz. I now give the floor to Mr Lajos Kepli, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2018-06-26-117	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Perhaps my microphone will remain in place, and then I can say my speech as a general speaker not too long. Basically, I would protect us from it now, although it is obvious that not everyone will do so to present my opinion on Paks II investment in this bill, so I would rather limit myself to what the bill is about. [[13.50]] Obviously, it is very important, especially in nuclear licensing, for various investments, that independent expert opinions support the issue of a permit or the decision on a specific issue. We could generate a far-reaching and perhaps long-lasting debate by agreeing to who that independent expert is, by any means, an independent expert, because every expert is paid by someone. I myself, before entering political careers, worked as an environmental expert at the Chamber of Engineers, and, of course, I am not saying that the experts are generally biased towards the person from whom they receive their remuneration, because then there would be no point in the entire membership of the Chamber of Experts and the entire system of experts, but I would have put this issue in a bit of principle, but the fact is that there is a need for both independent experts and expert organisations who, in fact, decide certain professional issues, whether in engineering or in other fields, on the basis of technical considerations. On our part, the bill can actually be supported, as this is basically the subject of this issue. Once again, we do not express an opinion on any other specific investment, specific nuclear energy issues, when we say that this proposal is eligible. The question, which may not have been quite clear to me when I studied the proposal, was that of the expert organisation, as in general, the requirement to register a company as an expert organisation, that there was at least one person registered as an expert in the field at the Chamber of Engineers. There was also something in the explanatory memorandum that it was good to register professional organisations, because, where appropriate, if there are different fields of expertise to take a position on a matter and there are several experts working with an expert organisation, then the mandate of an organisation can be used to decide several questions at once; or it may be that only I have interpreted this, but I have found a way of excavating this from the reasoning of the proposal. Of course, this may also be a reasonable reason for not entrusting more independent experts, where appropriate, to consider a question where it falls within a range of fields of expertise, but can even be dealt with through the commission of an expert organisation. The question, unfortunately, must be raised, and this is not for the Secretary of State, nor for the wallet, but for the government's policy in general - that it is for the issuing of these expert mandates, especially when it comes to state orders, when experts are asked to participate in a public investment, what aspects are involved. Personal, political issues are involved, or the past, reference list, professional experience and course of life of the relevant expert organisation or expert are actually playing the role, as would be expected in an ideal country under ideal conditions. We don't always experience this, but hope dies last. We hope that in this area, too, but this is particularly important in an area such as nuclear energy, where a permit issued in response to an expert opinion has a weight, because, in the course of the operation of a nuclear power plant, investment or measure that may not directly affect nuclear processes can have relatively significant consequences. If we are talking about nuclear power plant investment, it can be a serious financial consequence, but what's worse is that it can have very serious consequences for human safety. So it is absolutely necessary to regulate this area, and otherwise it would also be necessary to redefine, rethink and in many cases tighten up the professional activities of the Chamber, but this is not the subject of this bill. I hope that this will also be put on the table in Parliament, and then we can discuss this from a slightly larger perspective. I will conclude with what I have started by saying that this proposal can be supported by Jobbik. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-06-26-118	Thank you, Congressman Lajos Kepli. I now give the floor to Mr András Aradszki, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2018-06-26-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The bill before us basically provides clarification and clarification of the current nuclear energy law, with good intentions. The current law has already ensured the participation and independence of experts and expert organisations in the procedure for official authorisation of the nuclear installation. The amendment proposal is so much more than that this dependence, which is quite generally stated by the current law, the two types of experts, i.e. the nature and legal status of the natural person and expert organisation, is supported by a more accountable regulation of independence and lack of dependence. From this point of view, the authority or stakeholders who want to employ a non-dependent expert or expert organisation are able to identify a lack of dependence. I consider this to be positive and forward-looking in this respect. I also consider it important to note that, when authorising activities which have an important impact on nuclear safety, the proposal applies a more precise wording when it requires the use of an independent technical expert, or when authorising such activities, the documents submitted must be subject to an independent technical peer review, contrary to the text in force, which only required peer review. This therefore includes a clearer requirement for the Authority. I think it is very right and important that the registration of independent expert organisations at the Chamber of Engineers has been included in the bill, because it will be a very important tool, particularly, for properly qualified organisations with appropriate conditions, to be included in the list of independent expert organisations. In this respect, it is an area of absence, but I think it is important for me and for the future that the bill provides an adequate transparency for the activities of the independent technical expert organisation, for the professional history and practice of the natural persons involved in it, and for the presentation of the fields of expertise. Thus, the public's power in this respect is reflected in public credibility, and thus the legal certainty, the publicity of professional reputations, will not be impaired, but will be significantly improved. In view of this, the Christian Democratic People's Party can support the presented proposal as an important instrument for nuclear safety. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-06-26-120	Thank you, Congressman András Aradszky. I now give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] [[In the notary seat, Dr. László Varga replaces István Szávay.]]
u2018-06-26-121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, My fellow Member, Aradsk, said here at the beginning of the speech that practically everything is okay with this area. The fact is, my fellow Member, that the wonder is all right, there is nothing right with this area. And there is nothing better to show that there is nothing right with this area than that this law was last amended in 2017, and now, a year later, in 2018, everything is okay with this project, it is re-allocating this area for a run, re-adapting the provisions on the background of nuclear power experts. [[14.00]] Why are you doing this? They are doing this because they started on a road that is extremely dangerous and harmful because they refuse to face real problems. Real problems are relatively simple, in a country this size obviously there are no two nuclear physicists, obviously there are no two nuclear experts or four or five, this is a relatively well-defined expert background. And since it is not only our children and grandchildren here, but with a long decade-long and even centuries-long outlook, it is safe to say that the safety of the people who live here is also involved, so the game is not at all over the table. You know that this area of expertise could be fairly, independently of in one hand, in a good place, and this is the National Atomic Energy Office, which is, in principle, an independent institution, in practice carrying out its activities under conditions also controlled by the international organisation, or doing so if you could, but you cannot. He doesn't know, and we have said it in the last debate, and we are saying that the biggest problem is that the office is simply unable to keep its experts. The office is unable to keep its professionals, because there is such a degree of separation between the wages of the office and the wages that can be obtained on the market that the office, if you look at this area, cannot actually fulfil the function it is otherwise destined for. [[Turning to Dr. András Aradski:]] Mr. Congressman smiles very much, perhaps he could have smiled last year when this bill was adopted. We don't think it's okay. Well, it's certainly not okay for you to think that it's okay that if an expert in a company has such a certificate, then he's extremely independent, that company will be able to give expert opinions on nuclear energy issues. We think the whole concept and the whole road they're going is wrong. Let me recall the previous debate, as in the previous bill, the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Authority Act, you are elegantly, if I remember correctly, raising the salary of the President to HUF 4 to 10 million, also raising the salary of the Vice Presidents by 1.2 million, giving the head of the Energy Office a free hand to get more leeway by diverting domestic wages and raising wages, saying that it is important for the experts to stay there, and we have been telling you for years that this is the case at the National Atomic Energy Office. In a country, if there is an investment in a nuclear power plant of nearly HUF 4,000 billion, which has a financial and security significance for decades, let us not make ourselves laugh at the fact that we will entrust its expertise to independent companies, where at least one person is aware of what nuclear power is. This should be done by the OAH with honor, so we would like to ask you with great respect to withdraw this bill, or even if you accept it, don't take it seriously. Take it seriously that the OAH is strengthened, that we will support and vote for it in the first place, and that the OAH will be able to fulfil its task and be able to retain professionals who are able to give independent expert opinions on the safety, life, security and future of people living here, free of any market influence. Thank you so much for listening.
u2018-06-26-122	Thank you very much, Congressman. Again, I welcome my fellow Members. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck. I'll wait for you, Congresswoman, to put the microphone on nicely, so you don't get tangled in the wire. Thank you very much. Please restore Congresswoman's watch. You have the floor, please.
u2018-06-26-123	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, For the third time, the government has been running for nuclear power licensing and relaxation of legal guarantees. In the previous two cases, it has been proven that government plans put nuclear safety at risk, and therefore the Fidesz Cabinet had to retreat. It is a specific situation when the European Commission is forced to protect Hungarian citizens from the irresponsible nature of their own government, but that is exactly what happened. As Russian Rosatom is unable to comply with European and Hungarian safety standards, you are attempting to adapt domestic legislation to the performance of the Russian party. This is exactly like saying that this faulty or bad or old car has failed the technical test twice, rewrite the rules, and that next time it will pass without brake. I don't think this is the right way. In particular, we find it unacceptable for the nuclear industry to recreate the usual tricks. In previous cases, the LMP also expressed its opinion, and we still represent that if Rosatom considers European and Hungarian nuclear regulations to be too strict, it has two choices: either to pull itself together and try to grow up to the task, or to withdraw from the market. There have been more serious nuclear accidents in Russia and the former Soviet Union than in Western Europe in total, this does not show that Hungary should take over the Russian practice of nuclear licensing, the standards in Russia. In the current amendment proposal, we see two points of serious concern: both relate to expert participation. According to the law, in the authorisation procedure, an expert organisation may be any organisation which employs at least one expert in the field of expertise, in any legal relationship. However, there is no limit to how many organisations an expert can work for, i.e. to any extent an increase in the number of expert organisations that can be included in the authorisation procedure without even one more expert in the country. The amendment will allow any expert organisation of any kind to benefit from the approval of the planned enlargement. We can already predict that in the company empire of Lőrinc Mészáros, the professional companies are beginning to reproduce, relying on the same existing expert base. Moreover, the text does not require that the only expert who could legitimise the involvement of dozens of expert organisations in the future should actually participate in the expert's work; this is not acceptable. The other issue of concern raises similar problems. The rules for the secondment of the independent expert have already been rewritten by the government once, so the independent expert opinion can now be attached to the licence application by the applicant, i.e. Rosatom or its subcontractors. This is already a huge relief, since the licensee can bring his own paid expert with him, which basically calls into question the independence of official procedures. However, now the government is also trying to eliminate existing conflict of interest rules. While there has been a conflict of interest resulting from economic relations and subordination so far, from now on only ownership or kinship matters, i.e. given the scarcity of the Hungarian expert base, there will be no Hungarian engineer or expert organisation whose mandate would prove incompatible in the future for any legitimate reason. Although my fellow Member Kepli assumed that all opposition parties would now be thinking about the LMP, he will explain his arguments about the Paks enlargement, why not, I will not do so now, but for this reason, and because of our concerns, the LMP cannot support the amendment. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-26-124	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear House, From the Dialogue Group, Congressman Bence Tordai applied to be the lead speaker. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-06-26-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The fact is that it is difficult to play an opposition role when colleagues have actually said everything, so I would just like to confirm the most important points. We have to assume that there is no safe nuclear power, that there is only dangerous and more dangerous nuclear power. Obviously, we all want to see that if we don't get to Chernobyl and Fukushima's fate, whether the Paks I. operates or the Paks II expansion will be completed, despite the fact that it substantially undermines Hungarian national sovereignty, risks our security, indebtes the country for the next two generations, and carries unpredictable risks during its operation, and for the hundreds of thousands of years until the radioactive materials that are created here are stored as waste. So from this starting point of view, I believe that we cannot make concessions on the issue of security when it comes to nuclear energy, and from now on all opposition criticisms, which have now been said, are that, while this bill seems to tighten up on conflict of interest rules, the reality is that it is loosening up on these conflict of interest regulations, it only speaks of ownership and relative relations as incompatible, so addiction and economic relations are not. From this point forward, there is no obstacle to the Rosatom bringing such experts, and who knows, indeed, as Erzsébet Schmuck said, a so-called expert or even a serious number of expert organisations with his presence, his membership, will legitimize and empower him in this way to issue expert opinions that seem to be independent from each other. [[14.10]] I believe that if there really is a responsibility in the pro-government representatives, and perhaps this is the issue that we can move beyond the division of the government and, exceptionally, everyone here can take the professional debate and the arguments put forward in it a little seriously, then I expect you to consider these opposition criticisms, not to give in to the pressure in Putin, not to risk the safety of the Hungarian people, and also to strive for maximum security in relation to the Paks I or, where appropriate, the Paks II project that can be set up. To this end, amend this legislative amendment or withdraw it as it is. The Dialogue can't support it in this form. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-26-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I would like to ask my fellow Members if someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I ask Mr Péter Kaderjak, State Secretary, if you would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
u2018-06-26-127	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Thank you for your opinions and contributions, thank you for the support of the pro-government Members in addition to the bill, and also for the support of Jobbik in connection with this proposal. There are two points that I would like to respond to. Of course, the government and I are fully aware that nuclear energy production has very important security aspects, but it should also be pointed out that nuclear energy production is currently the backbone of Hungary's electricity supply. The current bill provides for strict conflict of interest rules for experts and expert organisations in relation to all authorisation procedures for nuclear installations. I think it is very difficult to question the seriousness of a new regulation which is trying to guarantee that those who give advice to the National Atomic Energy Agency in these extremely important and decisive procedures for nuclear safety, because he is carrying out this authorisation for applicants, will receive expert opinions in which they can trust, which they may think are technically sound. Like Congressman Kepli, I have been an expert for a long time, I have worked as an expert, and I know how difficult it is, especially in a small country, in a small profession, to guarantee that independent experts will give their opinion on a proposal in an authorisation procedure, but I think that everything must be done to ensure that this happens. Of course, legislation alone is not a guarantee that this will happen, but that civil servants who work, for example, in the National Atomic Energy Office, must apply these rules in such a way that the criterion mentioned by the Member, namely that the appropriate, fair experts receive the mandates, is met. As far as the role of the National Atomic Energy Office is concerned, it has been said here that the position, strength and capacity of the National Atomic Energy Office should be strengthened, especially because the Paks II project is indeed facing an unprecedented complex authorisation procedure. That's right. I would just like to point out that the National Atomic Energy Office has recently received a significant increase in its staff, with an additional 86 people in 2015, and we are currently considering how the remuneration and salary of the Atomic Energy Agency's experts can be increased. In the debate on the previous bill, we have heard criticisms from opposition representatives about the fact that many do not support this rise in salaries, which is considered to be outstanding, and we have now heard that it would be good to set a much larger salary at such responsible offices. I trust that, by the way, the government will be able to resolve the situation that exists today in accordance with its capabilities, and, like the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, it will be able to develop the position, status, independence and remuneration system of the Hungarian Atomic Energy and Utility Administration to the appropriate level. So, for my part, of course, I trust that very much. At the same time, I would like to thank you for your attention and once again ask you to support the bill.
u2018-06-26-128	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16 a.m. on Thursday. A general debate on the proposed social contribution tax will follow up until closure. Government referral T/627. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Izer Norbert, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-06-26-129	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, The purpose of the bill on social contribution tax is to combine the tax liability on paying agents and, in the absence of paying agents, on individuals, such as the social contribution tax currently in force and the health contribution, known as eho, into a tax. This measure serves both to reduce the number of taxes and to reduce tax administration, as well as to achieve the general objectives of the tax system. The proposal includes as little change as possible in the area of tax obligations, while respecting the requirement for a predictable tax environment, which we have been stressing for years. The necessary changes have been made in the interests of simplification and transparency. Dear House, If the bill is adopted, the health contribution will cease, and the income charged so far will be subject to a social contribution tax from 1 January 2019. Furthermore, there is still a social contribution tax obligation in the past, such as a tax liability for an employment relationship, so we really want to make one of the two taxes with this bill. The bill also includes significant simplification and proposes the introduction of a single-key social contribution tax. A few years ago, we had five tax rates, now there are two tax rates in this tax category, and next year we want to introduce a single-key system. [[14.20]] Income previously paid with a 14 per cent ehkulch, such as capital incomes or non-wage benefits, will be burdened by 19.5 per cent. But this does not mean an increase in the tax burden, I would like to emphasise this, thanks to the special rules for calculating the tax base. The consolidated tax does not change the specific tax liability of primary producers, self-employed persons and social enterprises. Dear Parliament, In the bill before you, the rate of the social contribution tax is 19.5 per cent, but the permanent consultation forum of the Competition and Government signed in November 2016, in short, under the VKF agreement, the rate of the tax may be reduced to 17.5 per cent in 2019 if the 6 per cent increase in real wages is achieved. So we do not see this in this bill, it is a condition of the future. Dear House, It is also necessary to mention the change in the upper limit of the health contribution obligation for capital income, which is currently marked at HUF 450 thousand, including the amount of the health insurance contribution paid by the individual. The bill simplifies the definition of a tax ceiling by a method that states that the tax on capital income should be paid until it is based on a combined tax base equals twice the annual minimum wage. In addition to the above, the bill proposes to introduce a benefit for the protection of jobs and to introduce a more targeted, but higher, benefit, which has a more effective labour market incentive effect and, in particular, encourages the expansion of labour supply. Contrary to the earlier fragmented regulation, on the basis of the bill, benefits would be regulated uniformly by the Social Contribution Tax Act, thus contributing to the application of the law and the transparency of the benefits. In the event of the adoption of the bill, there will also be a significant change in the rate of the discounts, as instead of the previous limit of HUF 100 thousand, these benefits will be valid up to the minimum wage, so that the rate of the discount will continue to increase on an annual basis. From 2019, benefits will be available for those entering the labour market. This group includes career beginners, long-term unemployed and returnees after maternity benefits, as well as workers who have previously been inactive for other reasons. In such cases, the tax authority shall inform the employer that the benefit can be enforced upon notification of employment. In this way, employers will be able to enforce with great certainty the tax relief they are entitled to, which is now available up to the minimum wage. The rate of the benefit for the first two years of employment is 100% as it is now - the employer is exempt from the social contribution tax and vocational training contributions, and in the third year of employment it provides a 50 per cent benefit from the social contribution tax. In order to facilitate the employment of persons with disabilities, instead of a previously available discount with a rehabilitation card, a more extensive personal benefit will be introduced, which will no longer require a rehabilitation card to be validated. The discount currently helping people with disabilities to self-employment will continue to be available with an extended staff population, with the benefits of this staff providing a full exemption from the social contribution tax and vocational training contributions up to a higher amount up to a double of the minimum wage. [[In the notary seat Attila Gelencsér will be replaced by Attila Móring József.]] In the case of non-skilled and agricultural workers, the tax relief continues to be granted to employers, where the benefit is used, only half of the social contribution tax is paid up to the minimum wage, as is the case with the current rule. We therefore believe that the benefits will be more targeted and higher, thanks to what is stated in the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-26-130	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Sándor Hadházy. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-06-26-131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary has taken very important steps in the last eight years to improve its competitiveness, to increase economic growth. One of the most important questions was the need to decide what the government is supporting, what the country is supporting, and how this support will come down among the various actors in society. The biggest problem eight years ago was the unemployment situation. More than 10 percent were unemployed. This has fallen into the top third of Europe, and this has caused not only economic problems and tensions, but also sociological problems and tensions. For this reason, the government, I think, rightly stated, in the first steps, that this should be changed. On the one hand, to remove hundreds of thousands of workers from this impossible situation and, on the other hand, to a life situation that can serve their future. We wanted to reduce labour taxes and increase consumer taxes. This, as a matter of fact, has led to a change of approach, since we have always charged employers and employees with personal income tax, various other extra taxes and contributions. That was the first thing I had to change. A lot of people questioned that this was the right way. I think that if we look back over the past period, we can see that this was a viable path and that it has led to the right results. We can say that the unemployment situation has improved considerably, today at around 3 percent. Of course, we have additional tasks, because the aim is to achieve full employment. But I think that we must now also face the fact that there are areas where there is a shortage of workers, and that we in Hungary are primarily dealing with small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary, and that we need to create a situation for small and medium-sized enterprises to manage wage tensions. We have been able to make sure that a large part of employers, the vast majority of them today, have realised that this situation needs to be changed if they want to live in the long term. In 2016, the government, the employers' association and the workers' association concluded an agreement, a six-year agreement, which worked as a guiding thread, and as a result of this agreement, the government is constantly submitting to Parliament the legislative proposals that were made in the spirit of this agreement, and are obviously designed to reduce wage tension in Hungary and to approach the level of income in the European labour market as quickly as possible. Dear House, In essence, this is the purpose of the bill before us, which is also another bill for taxation, which is intended to simplify and reduce burdens. I would like to emphasise this first. In the event of the adoption of these proposals, hundreds of billions of forints may remain with employers, businesses and employees, i.e. families, next year. I believe that this is in the interests of the country. As a result of the six-year wage agreement, the rate of social contribution tax may be further reduced as of 1 January next year. This tax rate was still 27 per cent five years ago, but in recent years it has been reduced to 19.5 per cent in several steps, and thanks to encouraging economic prospects, we would like to reduce this rate further. The target set in four years' time will be 11.5 percent. So we're going to get from 27 percent to 11.5 percent. [[14.30]] The technical questions have been said very precisely by the Secretary of State, and I do not wish to mention them in order to save time. I therefore commend to the House the bill that has been tabled. The Fidesz fraction, of course, supports the House, please support the proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-26-132	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr János Volner. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-06-26-133	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I look at the bill before us with a completely different view, and as my colleague from the government, I would like to start with a little historical recollection. Before 2010, Fidesz promised from the opposition and then repeatedly confirmed that it would protect pensions, protect workers, and, of course, protect people who are still active and who later, after losing their ability to work, will need the state. It is important to emphasise this because the bill before us is closely linked to the reform of the pension system that independent economists refer to as the einstand. You remember, my fellow Members, there was a funded pillar of the Hungarian pension system, 12 years of private pension fund savings accumulated, and 12 years of private pension fund savings of 3 million people were accumulated in this pension system. And what did the Orbán government do? Well, you protected him with an unheard-of brazenness, by the way, by living up to this incredible mass of wealth. [[Why do you think that?]] That's literally what happened! I think you may have missed this on the government side because you have regularly brought into this Parliament the report of the pension fund that is about living up to this money, and now your government has acknowledged that this money has been spent by the government until the very last iron, and that there is no iron left of it. [[Interviews from the Fidesz ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] It is important to emphasise this, fellow Members, because, in the past 12 years, membership of the private pension fund has raised HUF 3 000 billion, and once again, 3 million people, and your government, unlike the socialists, has not increased public debt, but has made use of savings. And that money's gone. It is important to stress that from 1 January 2012, in accordance with the principle, the 27 per cent social security contribution is also important: it has been replaced by the equivalent social contribution tax. The difference between the two is that this kind of tax payment does not give rise to any legal relationship, no entitlement to the contributors, while earlier, who paid this particular contribution, of course, could calculate in return for the payment that his pension would be in proportion to his old age, and, of course, now, given that he was being collected as a tax, he lost that amount. What happened in English? They took it, forced it out of people's private pension fund savings of HUF 3 000 billion, practically turned the Hungarian pension system out of its savings, took it from people to the last iron they could. The system was then introduced that, unlike the previous period, the payment of this tax will no longer generate pension rights, and now we will only pay, and then Viktor Orbán will be able to trust the promise of the current Hungarian employee, and then he will be able to go 20-30 years later to the state fund, which is otherwise emptiness, and to apply for a pension, given that otherwise there is no funding behind the Hungarian pension system. I also think it is important to say this, my fellow Members, because it is not enough of the filth, because you have been able to increase it even further. As is well known, when this law was passed, they campaigned that this amount would be used to pay pensions. Now every year within the budget, within the budget law, including what is now within the House, the government side provides for the use of this amount, and you are using this money to allocate it to some of the financial funds of the TB, health insurance, pension insurance, and the state funds provided by the law. What's this about in English? In this, too, people have been fooled, and let us not mention that the individual accounts, which your government has promised so many times, have not been created, have been fooled by the Hungarian people, but, moreover, these contributions from a certain tax category are practically divided between different public chapters. It is not a matter of turning it into a pension system, distributing it, at their own convenience, between public funds, health insurance, pension insurance, as you think, and putting it in the budget law every year. We are also concerned because, if my fellow Members had observed developments over the past period, they could see that there is a consensus among the world's leading economists that all states, if their leaders were responsible for managing the wealth and public funds entrusted to them, should pursue counter-cyclical economic policy. In Hungarian, when there is a economic activity and the economy is doing just fine, we are living in such years, but the economy is not going well because you are so well governed, but because there is a economic activity throughout Europe and even in North America, for example, the automotive industry is pounding, of course, making many cars in Hungary, so in this way the economy is doing quite well, in the sense of countercyclical economic policy, when the economy is pounding, it should be accumulated. However, you will also collect the money at your disposal, which is supposed to be taken from people for retirement purposes, and you will not accumulate any of it, because every year the government will exceed this amount. They will do nothing to ensure that when the crisis comes, be the source of the state, have something to boost the economy when the hard times come, because believe me, the hard times will come, and now your head of government will talk about it - then there will be nothing to boost the economy. I say in silence that if there is not a single penny within the pension system, only within the framework of the pay-as-you-go system, the state will think, of course, about the demographic and social processes that dominate Hungary now. If you think, fellow Members, that 500 to 600 thousand people have migrated to work abroad, they have basically fled from you, and have never before left Hungary as many as they are now... [[Nacsa to Lawrence:]] I wouldn't smile at that, my fellow Member, it's a national tragedy! In practice, Hungary suffered a loss of the size of a world war. I understand that Fidesz has a reason to be clear, because you want to drive away young voters, because they don't vote for you. By the way, given the fact that they're shaking their heads again, I would like to draw your attention to, for example, how Fidesz stands on the votes cast at the London embassy. There you wouldn't have made it to Parliament if the elections had been held among the emigrated Hungarians and their votes had been passed. Well, what you can see is that the government hasn't been too big in this area either. In this case, it is also important to see that the government spends this extra income on a continuous basis, year after year, not a penny of it, but only the money accumulated within the distribution system will be distributed. What does that mean, my fellow Members? More coercion that this bill doesn't solve. One of the constraints is that, in the long term, over a decade, the ratio between the so-called substitution rate, i.e. income in the active age and pension income in relation to it, will deteriorate increasingly and drastically. If you look at the most likely demographic predictions now, not from better economists, but from the data of the KSH, you can see that by 2050 there will be twice as many dependents and pensioners in Hungary as there are people of active age. I'm asking what you think will be the solution to this equation. I will tell you: the replacement rate of the pension system will deteriorate dramatically, the payments will be drastically reduced. Although the government side is lying to people every day to the contrary, just ask people around the age of 30 to trust your pension system, they trust Viktor Orbán's promise that he will provide the pension. I'll tell you, people don't trust him. They will say that either they will not receive a pension, or they will receive as many pensions as they simply cannot make a living, and this is not a small part of what drives people away from Hungary. [[14.40]] It is also important to see that there is practically no other significant reduction of the public burden with this pension conversion. If we look at the development of the tax wedge now, even within our region, Hungary has the highest rate of taxes. I note that if you think about last year, the state of Hungary has never collected as much tax as they have collected from the people last year. Well, so much for the tax cuts you've set out to make. If you look at the size of the tax wedge, the size of the Hungarian tax wedge is outstanding in the Central and Eastern European region. They're practically overloading the workers. Think, ladies and gentlemen, of the fact that businesses have a lack of capital, a shortage of markets, they cannot outgrow themselves. It is not the entrepreneurial ingenuity, not the tendency to innovate that is lacking in the Hungarian people, but the economic environment that does not strangle them as your government has strangled businesses in the last eight years. If you think about the fact that in order to pay a unit of wages to a worker, the entrepreneur has to have twice as much money, because the public burden that is thrown at him is virtually the same as the net wage, then it is understandable why the Hungarian economy's affairs are not outstanding. Although the government is campaigning that we're doing very well, it's clearly just not true. It is important to see that if the government is going to spend pension revenues on a permanent basis and not accumulate in the years of economic activity in accordance with the requirements of anti-cyclical economic policy, when the difficult time now mentioned by Viktor Orbán will come, I will not even say that the global economic crisis, ladies and gentlemen, but that if the European Union would only reduce subsidies drastically, sir, it would be expended from the country of Hungary in accordance with Article 7 - in Hungary, the economy would sink into recession, because European Union subsidies, foreign investments to which the government has little to do and the Hungarians working outside have to pay a thousand billion forints annually, which will keep the Hungarian economy still alive on a breathing machine and not your government as it is claimed. I therefore ask you to think more responsibly about both the social contribution tax and the pension system. Much more responsible, much longer-lasting way of planning finance in this area as well. I also think it is important to ask because this is a sustainability problem in Hungary, which will only speed up the migration of skilled young workers from the country in the future. If people do not see a prosperous strong economy in a decade's perspective, they do not see the vision that, when they lose their ability to work, the state will provide them with an adequate level of care when they are retired, then they will not be in the mood to live in Hungary, ladies and gentlemen. As hundreds of thousands of young people have now migrated, more will migrate. This is your government's responsibility. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-26-134	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-06-26-135	Thank you very much. [[To Ildikó Bangóné Borbély:]] Ladies first, but that's what Mr. President called me. Excuse me, Congresswoman, for my turn. I would also like to respond to my colleague Volner in a few sentences. He also mentioned pensioners, workers, families. [[Noise, interruptions from the opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] In 2010, we agreed to maintain the value of pensions. The value of pensions, I'm reporting here, has been preserved. Compared to 2008, there was a 42% average increase in pensions. We were able to pay a pension premium, and if the economy does so, we will be able to do so again this year. In the unemployment rate, unemployment is 3.7 per cent compared to the 2010 figure, 12 per cent, and we are on the right track for full employment, that is the goal. As far as families are concerned, in the 2010 budget there was just over HUF 1000 billion in support of families. This will exceed HUF 2000 billion in next year's budget, so we will spend twice as much on strengthening and supporting families as the Socialist Government in 2010. For the votes at London's foreign representations, if we highlight a detail, I would just like to say that if they had started in accordance with the electoral law in force in London, Jobbik would have been a representative of Parliament today, so I don't think it's worth mentioning. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] With regard to the law, I would like to say that, in order to improve the conditions for economic growth, strengthen the competitiveness of the economy, preserve the competitive tax system and create a competitive tax system, this bill also proposes to standardise the social contribution tax and the health contribution, as well as to incorporate the benefits of social contributions tax under other legislation into the new consolidated public burden, the social contribution tax. The government and the governing parties regard the promotion of the competitiveness of Hungarian businesses as a priority. The National Competitiveness Council also met today, where it was said that the proposals of the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Ministry of Innovation and Technology and the Central Bank will make a joint package of proposals that will improve the competitiveness of the government in the summer. The reduction in the six-year pay gap concluded in 2016, we believe that it will make a significant contribution to further catching up on wages. This agreement is, in essence, now simplified into seven points. Point 6 of this said: From 2019 on, four times a year, the socho can be further reduced by 2 sap points if a 6-percent real wage increase is achieved. We can see that, and we can see from the suggestions before us that from 1 July next year, the amount of the socho will decrease from 19.5 per cent to 17.5 per cent if the conditions are met. If all the planned contribution reductions are implemented and the necessary conditions are met, the total contribution burden paid by employers in 2016 will be reduced to 13 per cent by 2022, i.e. less than half. That is what we call, ladies and gentlemen, a competitiveness package. One element of this is that the burden on small and medium-sized enterprises is also reduced. We think it's extremely important. According to the motion, there would be no change in the scope of taxable persons, or only in the fact that, since 2019, those who have had to pay a health contribution for their bi-terrible incomes would have had to pay the same or different levels of socho as the current eho. Here are incomes such as income from the business, income from securities lending, not listed, to which this applies. We believe that competitiveness is supported by this proposal, which is why the KDNP fraction supports the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-26-136	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Here you go, picture woman, you have the floor.
u2018-06-26-137	[[Dr. Zoltán Kovács' intervention:]] I'm glad you like my dress, Congressman. Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to say a few sentences to my fellow photographer, Lőrinc Nacsa. He mentioned that pensions have preserved their value thanks to the policy of recent years. If I were cynical, I would ask the question that pensioners knew about this, but I do not know if Congressman knows that poverty has increased most in two segments in Hungary. The workforce has doubled during your administration, and poverty has risen dramatically among pensioners over 65 in Hungary. All I want to say about the family support system is that every year, during the budget debate, it is said within the walls of this House how much the government increases the family support system and how good it is. Let me just refer to exactly one data today, which is your KSH data, that during the last eight years, the number of births in Hungary has steadily decreased. Of course, Hungarian children are born, thanks to God, only not in Hungary; in London, Holland, Germany, England, Austria, I could list a lot of countries. [[14.50]] One in six Hungarian children today see the light of day abroad. Then there is a problem with this family support system, we can agree, Congressman, that there is. Let us now move on to the bill before us. Even the Ministry of National Economy, led by Matolcsy, presented the bill on social contribution tax in 2011, completely redesigning the system of former employer contributions. He managed to place all of this in a more than 100-page salad law, most of which has long since been repealed, so today the most important tax legislation of the budget, which represents some HUF 4300 billion in revenue, is a leaky law. In addition to the formal problems, they intend to make significant changes in content. They combine the social contribution tax and the health contribution, the uniform rate will be 19 percent, the tax relief system will be completely transformed. If we look at the government's tax policy over the last eight years, we can say that instead of employees, the government has sided with employers in the last eight years. Allow me to list some data. In 2010, the gross minimum wage was 73 500 HUF, with an employer's contribution of 20 948 HUF in 2010 and an employee's contribution of 13 264 HUF. This is very important because the employee paid less than the employer. This was the second-to-last year because there was a turnaround in 2012. At that time, the minimum wage was HUF 93 000, the employer's contribution was HUF 26 505 at the time, and that's when the turn took place, when the employee paid more contributions, HUF 32 085. In 2018, the minimum wage became HUF 138 thousand, the employer's contribution was HUF 29 670 and the employee's contribution was HUF 46 230. In eight years, the employer's contributions increased by HUF 8722, while the employee's contributions increased by HUF 32 966. I don't think it's okay somewhere. But we know very well that when we look at tax policy, we have often said here in Parliament that workers have been punished by this government, and employers have been rewarded. I would add that it is also worth talking about the net, because in 2010 the net of HUF 73 500 was HUF 60 236, we know very well that after the minimum wage the employees did not pay taxes, and then the first step of the Fidesz government was to tax the minimum wage, and to tax the minimum wage for 16 percent, as for example, who earned millions of HUF - and now the net of HUF 138 thousand is HUF 91,770. It is very important, and we can continue to say it every single time that we demand and we will also put forward an amendment to allow the minimum wage to become tax-free again. The amendment before us states that the automatic tax relief for people under 25 and those over 55 will be abolished. This is very important because in Hungary there has been a very large shortage of workers by 2018, and then again we can now confirm with CSF data that 650 thousand people have officially left Hungary in recent years, and that is essentially the result of the drastic lack of labour, the lack of well-trained professionals. Here we have to talk about the fact that you have essentially created a legislative amendment, and we have discussed it several times this year and last year: the establishment of retired social cooperatives and the benefit of pensioners' cooperatives for tax relief. Back in the day, Lajos Kósa said that because of this huge shortage of workers, hundreds of thousands of people who have been forced to retire by you... because we can say that they have made laws that forced people who didn't want to retire. Here I can bring up the 40, because it is a great success that women can retire after 40 years of work; I will not argue with him, because I think that anyone who has worked 40 years with integrity will get to retire and want to go. However, there was always a layer that thought that, after reaching retirement age, he could still work, there was still enough to be present in the labour market. But many I can bring up teachers still can't return because they have to choose whether to work or to choose a pension. In essence, hundreds of thousands of people have retired from the ranks of women. It should also be mentioned that next year the retirement age will be 64 years, where you can retire to another 10,000, because those with a higher education degree will also be able to use the age of 40, and there will be an even greater gap. I would add, let us say, we see that we already have a shortage of workers at the teaching field, that in small settlements we have to catch teachers with almost a lasso to fill the vacancies. But let's get back to the retirement unions. Then Lajos Kósa, here in Parliament, outlined that about 800,000 pensioners can return to the labour market in the context of retired social cooperatives, because the government is creating concessions that will result in a mass of pensioners going back to work. To add, once again, I say that the person who worked 40 to 50 years may not really want to choose to return to the labour market. Seven thousand pensioners can be registered today, who are re-employed within retired social cooperatives. We also said in the debate that it is quite paradoxical, as you imagined, that they will replace the shortage of labour in Hungary with students and pensioners. I don't know how exactly you imagined trade was brought up at the time of the shortage of labour there too - how you will be able to replace it; I said in the debate that I would see a rather terrible picture in front of me when the grandmother and the granddaughter would pack the shelves in the Tesco chain together, so there is no more labour. By the way, if you're in stores, you'll find that there's actually such a shortage of labor that you can see empty shelves or that you can't even hire cashiers in stores anymore. So the tax policy of the last few years can be said to be on the wrong track. We have repeatedly said that more emphasis should be placed on the protection of workers' rights, and then we could go back to the labour code, where workers have essentially become completely vulnerable to employers, which has not changed to this day, and should, in essence, pursue a tax policy that actually supports the employee. I would add that it is very important to provide the employer with subsidies, because if we listen to the employer's side, the same criticisms are expressed, that the tax burden is very high, that they cannot manage the sums to be paid to the state, and the other thing you listen to every time is the lack of a properly trained workforce. I think that if we can call something of the past eight years a sin, then the biggest sin is that this government has allowed the well-trained workforce from Hungary to leave. There will be insurmountable consequences. In front of me, my better fellow Member spoke a lot about the pension system. One of these unforeseen consequences will be the sustainable pension system, if we can talk about a sustainable pension system in Hungary in the middle of 2018 in the summer. I think that this is why the tax policy of this government should be considered and the amendments tabled by the opposition should be adopted. I am asking Mr Secretary of State to represent what we are proposing to amend. It is true that we have said quite a lot in this Chamber recently, and I think it is time to come to its senses and accept the opposition's proposal. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[15.00]]
u2018-06-26-138	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Mr László Varju, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-06-26-139	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, The Secretary of State said in his statement that the bill is about social contribution tax and what purpose it has. That reminds me of basically two words, two words left that I'd like to suggest to you, because unlike you, I'm thinking of uncertainty and unpredictability. In 2019, the government's planned uncertainty remains integrated into the economy. There is no substantial tax reduction, and learning from previous mistakes, I might say that simplification might help us find something, and farmers might be able to count on it. The nominal aim of the bill is to improve the conditions for economic growth, to preserve the competitiveness of the economy and to create a competitive tax system. To this end, this bill proposes to merge the social contribution tax and the health contribution from the paying public burden, and to bring together and thus merge the benefits of the social contribution tax provided for in other laws. Let us accept that the legislator wants to do this in an institution, and in this way he will do so in law, in this one law, and otherwise he will not accept the amendments in a salad law. The proposal thus eliminates the health contribution and merges it. But I would like to point out here that the problem is with the legal administration itself, and that the employer's social security contributions were created... which you had previously abolished and converted into taxes in order to make private pension funds impossible with a direct proposal at the time. We all remember this amok run you did: 3000 billion forints of 3 million people have been removed in virtually months, and your budget has been spent, practically burning this money. The conversion of the contribution into a tax has, mutatis mutandis, negatively affected the insurance nature of pension insurance and health insurance. The subsequent measures on the funds, the institutions, have also pointed in this direction, so don't be surprised if you are being criticised in this regard. Unfortunately, they still don't take that criticism to heart. But let us first consider the circumstances under which this proposal was tabled. Because how much reality this has in the government agreement previously referred to by my fellow Member! Two months ago, according to the Hungarian National Bank's forecast, dynamic wage growth was not sustainable, which marked the past period. According to their then published inflation report, as a consequence, the schedule for the reduction of the social contribution tax set out in the six-year wage agreement will not be continuous. The Hungarian National Bank, well-known to you, said that a further reduction could take place in the second quarter of 2020. I would like to draw attention to this uncertainty over and over again. We can ask ourselves: is the government, by the way, making this proposal irresponsible, or is it doing it as an election catch, and that's all we can expect from it? Let us start from the fact that he was not irresponsible at the moment of the contract, because what has been promised to the workers, by the way, is expected by the workers to comply with you. Let us assume that compliance with the agreement reached at this consultation forum is not just a text, but a vision forward for years. Accordingly, you must increase the minimum wage, increase the guaranteed minimum wage and otherwise reduce the social contribution tax paid by employers. And that is why, if the government's objectives expressed in the draft law are not just for this moment, then this also applies to the coming years, and if, by the way, it wants to do this, and it is committed to doing so, and it would really seek predictability, then it could also be recorded in the law. But the government will not do so, because otherwise it lives only for the moment, there is no possibility, it dares not, and it does not undertake to commit itself to a long-term reduction by 2022, and otherwise companies and employers can indeed be in favour of predictability in this sense. Because, by the way, the signals given by the Hungarian National Bank do not support the actions and ideas you have taken. It's safe to say there's chaos, not security. However, companies have also started a dynamic wage increase completely independent of you. They need this because, by the way, in order to retain the workforce and prevent them from being abandoned, yes, they had to take this step. This process could be supported by a much greater commitment by the government than, for example, what I have just mentioned to you. But the point is that under the six-year wage agreement concluded in autumn 2016, you will have to reduce this by 2-2 percent for another four years after 2018. If this condition had otherwise been met, the government could virtually reduce the social contribution tax at the beginning of the second quarter following that quarter. In practice, this means that according to the central bank, as I mentioned, this could only take place after the last quarter of 2019. But let's continue to look at the circumstances that you have created and that need to be dealt with. Let us not forget that since you have to pay a social contribution instead of your employer's social contributions, which is a tax, and the tax is based on wages, if the employer would otherwise pay the pension contribution, the pensioner would have to receive a pension, but if the employer only pays taxes, then there will be nothing in return. Cross-baptizing meant that you were given greater freedom, that the government was given greater freedom to spend the money for other purposes, and that, as we have seen, you spent it. You spent hundreds of billion forints of the surplus payments over the last few years not on pensioners, not on health care, but on something else. According to the previous rule, the social security contribution, which was treated as a tax on the levy and collection, could only have been spent on social security, but the change removed the government's obligation to spend the money on health care and pensions. And accordingly, we also find that the amount paid has disappeared and that you are using it for something else. The introduction and re-baptization of this tax in this form, in fact, prepares, in practice, not to spend on pensions in the event of a major crisis mentioned by the Prime Minister, but to bear the fact that a large reduction in pensions may occur. In order that this does not happen, we want a democratic but effective and strong state instead of today, which is what we are talking about, and that is what we are proposing to you. It is necessary to open the door to entrepreneurs as widely as possible, otherwise as owners, the State should not distort the market, monitor competition, protect businesses, optimize taxes, support job creation and development, be fair but consistent in controls and sanctions, and, otherwise, retaliate hardly against corruption and misuse of public money. Now, you see, that's what we can't see behind this tax presentation. [[15.10]] A large part of the working age population will no longer be able to participate as an employee in the modernisation revolution that you yourself have visioned because of their age, skills, lack of mobility and otherwise their health. For them, the opportunity to create value is right there. This local solution must fit in with the European single market and we cannot see this behind the draft law. We need a European solution. Only those who can work in a predictable environment can survive here. Your proposal is not enough, more needs to be done in the interests of the country. That is why it was a great shock even when you forced companies to pay social contributions instead of employers' contributions. Therefore, if the employer pays the pension contribution, the pensioner would have to receive a pension, but if the employer only pays taxes, then you also believe that this solution will not result in anything. I quote the words of the law. You're the ones who put it this way. The payment of a social contribution tax does not give rise to the payment of benefits paid from public funds, in particular social security benefits or unemployment benefits, or the right to receive public funding. Therefore, the basis and amount of the tax do not affect the amount of such benefit or aid. So much for what you're saying. That is why this solution is unacceptable in itself, all when it was invented, all now when they are trying to make it. I would like to highlight a few other details. Article 4 According to one of their paragraphs, the payments are divided among the separate public funds provided for by law, and this provision allows any fund to be supported by that amount. In recent years, we have seen how hundreds of billions have been removed and relocated. According to the 2019 central budget, the rate of the social contribution tax, as you indicated, will be reduced by 2 percentage points, but the Budget Act will expect a reduction, as this would result in a reduction in the amount of aid for human services. So what happened now? If you reduce it by doing so, no one can guarantee that employers and workers will benefit from this. With regard to concrete proposals, I consider it a fundamental concern to remove the benefit for people over 55 years of age. This is not justified by the fact that, by the way, the tax and contribution rules for the employment of pensioners can become more favourable, leaving only the 15 per cent burden on pensioners. It does not justify the termination of the discounts for up to 55 years. In conclusion, in our view, the social contribution tax should have been abolished and a predictable social security contribution should have been introduced for you. This could provide workers with the decent pension they otherwise have after many years of work. The pension shall not be granted, but shall be granted to all employees. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2018-06-26-140	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Dialogue Group is Mr Sándor Burány. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-06-26-141	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Secretary of State! Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Despite some of the positive elements of the bill before us, this will thus, in this form, not meet the most important objectives that we would expect from such a tax package. Let us first of all look at the main problems that should be addressed in order to understand that this proposal for a change, which the government has tabled, does not meet these most important objectives. The unprecedented wave of emigration has already been mentioned in several comments, which accelerated in the country after 2010. There are many reasons for this emigration wave, but there is a dramatic and very simple reason. In particular, it is in any Western European country, even in Slovakia, if you like, while the minimum wage can be used to maintain a modest tenant and a sublet in addition, this situation does not exist in Hungary at all. A young couple in the event of both earning a minimum wage, can't practically keep a rent in Budapest on this salary. Not only is it difficult for this young couple to think about having children, but it should not be the first step in creating the conditions for housing, but it should be the first step in establishing the financial background for childbearing from five to six. The Hungarian net minimum wage cannot be used in Hungary if they do not live with the parents, or if they do not receive an apartment as a gift from the parents - so that they can maintain an apartment. Otherwise, the government's perception is right in itself that if we want to improve competitiveness, we need to reduce the so-called tax wedge. But let's see what this tax wedge is. The tax wedge is translated into the net earnings, the earnings that the employee takes home in his pocket or is transferred to his bank account, whether in the form of taxes and contributions paid by the employee or by the employer. So all the tax burdens on net wages are called tax wedges. This is indeed high in Hungary. But the government doesn't want to reduce it there, and it doesn't want to reduce it the way it's supposed to. Firstly, it is not the employer that should be supported, but the worker should be supported. Moreover, this tax wedge burden, if you look at the payment and income structure, seems unprecedented, high at world record level in the lowest income bands. It would be clear to conclude that once this is the problem, it would be appropriate to start improving competitiveness by making the tax wedge primarily by reducing the burden on workers and in low income bands, but not by proposing it by the government. We have repeatedly formulated and even tabled amendments in previous cycles that aim to reduce the tax burden on the minimum wage by the government, because that is where Hungary is world champion, and that is exactly what we should not be leading up to. However, these proposals have so far been swept off the table by the government. In general, the government likes to engage both employers and employees in a way that is favourable to the group that is doing well anyway. If you want to reduce the burden on employers, you like to do so, like the last time you did, in the case of corporate tax, in order to primarily favour the largest multinational companies, and not at all to benefit small businesses to a minimum. It also does the same for workers when it does not reduce taxes on the lowest earners, but reduces taxes on high incomers in 2010 and has consistently maintained this misconception ever since. Our opinion is very clear and simple: the burden of low-income workers must be reduced in the first place. At the same time, this would be good for improving competitiveness and at the same time solving or mitigating the problem of workers' poverty, and at the same time creating a significant burden reduction in the small business community. Let us not forget that the income structure is also not the same for large entrepreneurs and small entrepreneurs. Unfortunately, the situation in Hungary is that the incomes of small businesses do not allow them to pay their employees, their employees, seriously and in substance. This is a tragedy in Hungary. Therefore, the more we look for and find a small business, the more typical it will be that most people there earn minimum wage. The more we look at a multinational company, the more we see that the average earnings are well above it, around 300-400,000 forints. [[15.20]] It is clear, then, that even when the government is thinking about encouraging childbearing, it would be worth not going on the road that has already started, but strengthening this approach. To illustrate a known old joke: the question is not just what it will be, but in answer to that joke it was: okay, what will happen, what will happen, but until then what will happen. I understand that the government has a nice model of a family with three or more children, but we have to get there. In this bill, too, there are benefits and, by the way, they are not bad discounts, and there should be no misunderstanding - which will take effect for families with at least three children. It would be more appropriate, more appropriate, to grant tax incentives that are already available to young potential parents when they are planning their first child. After all, this is the age when, thinking about having children, they can think about having children through improvements in housing, income, and so on and so forth. Of course, this is more of an emotional issue, not only a financial issue, but also a financial issue. This is also recognised by the government by the system of child discounts, but not there, at the beginning, at the beginning of a career, when it is best to do so, but also for existing children. Otherwise, this will result in the fact that for families already having relatively good income conditions and having at least 3 children, this benefit will come into effect, but those who are thinking about how many children they can take on in their careers and where income conditions are so low cannot make a living on this salary that unfortunately their fantasies cannot escape. What is perfectly wrong with this bill, however, is the elimination of tax relief for people over 55 years of age. This will be a completely flawed, even tragic, step. I understand that pensioners are encouraged to work by not having to pay contributions, I understand, that's all right; on the one hand, this is a confession to the fact that the Hungarian labour market is such that skilled workers are simply run out in Hungary because they are going abroad or not qualified enough, so the government is now trying to fill this labour market gap with pensioners in the absence of a better one. That's a confession, you should admit that's the case, but it's not a bad idea in itself. The basically bad idea is that they will also eliminate the tax relief of people over 55 as it is. What will be the effect of this? Ladies and Gentlemen, Let us note that employers are not necessarily sentimental people when they decide to be owners. They may be at home in the family, but when they decide to be owners, they think with a cold head. This decision, if voted in this form by Parliament, will have the very simple effect of firing those who are not retired, over 55, and will employ pensioners instead, because it will be cheaper for them. I think it's quite clear that this is going to happen. Then why do we have to cancel the tax relief for people over 55 as they are? This will have a very serious and dramatic impact on male workers in particular, as a male worker over the age of 55 is supposed to have at least ten years to retire, and we know precisely that this is a very vulnerable age. This age group, this age group, will be put at risk in the first place, as well as women who do not have 40 years of service, but who are 55 years old. This will be a dramatic effect, fellow Members. Please consider: this concept, set in pairs, is simply flawed, and it will not lead to the change in the labour market that you hope to make, but to a series of steps with tragic consequences for all of us. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear fellow Members, To sum up: while this bill has positive elements by effectively reducing taxes, it is fundamentally wrong in its concept. It does not help primarily where it should be helped, and in some areas it is particularly harmful. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-06-26-142	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I would like to ask my fellow Members, who would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Norbert, State Secretary, if he would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Secretary of State. Put the microphone on, and you have the floor.
u2018-06-26-143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will try to respond to a number of points that have been made, and there have been several elements that have been included in what several Members and ladies have to say, and I would like to try to respond to them at the same time. Congressman Volner and Congressman Varju have also mentioned that the conversion of social contributions into social contributions tax has resulted in uncertainty about the calculation of pensions. I would like to stress that in the previous period, when we talked about social security contributions and regulated social security contributions, social security contributions themselves did not affect the amount of social security benefits. Thus, neither in the previous period, nor under the current rules, social security contributions did affect the amount of the pension, depending solely on the individual contribution paid by the worker. So, in this respect, what the Member has also quoted, what the preamble to the Social Contribution Act says, is the same as that which was also included in the regulation of social contributions. Thus, pension and social security benefits were not affected by contributions paid by the employer during the previous period. It has also been said in Mr Volner's speech as a keynote speaker that the tax wedge is high in Hungary and that the government is actually collecting more and more taxes. We are also aware of this trend, we are constantly examining the level of tax collection, and it is indeed a welcome fact that the government is able to collect more and more taxes. All of this, however, is that the tax rates are constantly falling. So if we look at the tax burden on individual economic operators, we see that this tax burden is constantly falling, and yet we are collecting ever higher tax revenues. This is not an unsolvable mathematical task of how this can be accomplished: it is the result of whitening. The Hungarian economy has undergone a very significant whitening process in recent years. They try to measure this in many areas, in employment incomes, with VAT. The only methodology adopted at EU level is linked to VAT. The VAT has an indicator called Afarés, which shows what percentage of the VAT that is supposedly due to the budget cannot be collected by the budget. In the regional comparison, this rate is 21-22 percent, i.e. above 20 percent, i.e. the regional average means that one fifth of VAT revenue cannot be collected by the respective governments. Now in Hungary, from the years 2015-16, when we started to connect real-time data services to the tax authority, the online cash register, the EKÁER system, we are now introducing online invoicing from 1 July, so this economic whiteening plan or step plan has resulted in this revenue being reduced to less than 13 percent. This means that we can talk about a level that is much better than the regional level, which is slowly reaching the EU average. Thus, the decline in taxation clearly confirms that these economic whitening measures have worked and that the government is able to collect more and more tax revenues each year without taxing the economy or even reducing the tax rate. Thus, there is a continuous decrease in tax rates, but in contrast, a steady increase in taxes collected. So this does not mean that the economy is subject to a higher tax burden, but that we are collecting from everyone the tax that is imposed by law on them. Thus, the shrinking of the grey and black economy creates the fiscal margin which, by the way, allowed them to be reduced at the burden of living labour. Mrs Bangóné indicated in her speech that it was a leaky law, and Mr Varju also referred to it. That's why there's a separate law on the table right now, which is why we submitted a separate bill to treat this tax type with an independent, coherent, simple set of rules. [[15.30]] In two speeches, emphasis was placed on the removal of the benefit for people over 25 and 55 years of age. Here again, I would like to emphasise, as I mentioned before the keynote speeches, that the rate of discounts has been maximized up to 100 thousand forints, which will now be tied to the minimum wage, which means that we can provide a much higher discount, and this discount will increase year after year, as the minimum wage will increase. The other very important connection is that we do not see evidence that people over 55 are in any danger. The current situation in the labour market tells us that it is a very stable, very good workforce, who belongs to people over the age of 55, and we see that employers are counting on it. So I don't think it's realistic, by the way, that the only reason they're being kept at work is because of this contribution allowance. This is also confirmed by the fact that we have done a detailed research, and we have seen how the employment of those who are about to retire has increased in recent years. The 53-54-year-olds and the 55-56-year-olds, i.e. the two age groups, have not changed the employment rate of the two layers at all. So this means that the employment of the two age groups has increased in the same way, so to speak. Thus, it was not the contribution allowance that caused the extra employment, but the economy needs extra labour, and therefore this age group, so to speak, both of them, is very popularly employed. If there is any chance that someone might lose their job, this could happen in any age group, not only in those over 55 years of age, but even in younger people, but I would like to draw attention to the biggest novelty of the new system of discounts to replace the job protection action plan, which is to generate a discount for those who wish to return to the labour market. We propose a set of rules here in the bill that anyone who has not worked for more than six months in the last nine months, so that he has not had an employment relationship, should be entitled to this benefit. This means that you don't necessarily have to register for unemployment, so whoever might decide to return to the labour market while you are on the move has been in an inactive position so far, has not been looking for a job, but now they decide or have come up with an opportunity to take advantage of this new discount system. Thus, the employer who hires this pre-retirement or even a middle-aged person can also benefit from a discount. A person who has not been in the labour market for a year or two, for example, a young person returning from abroad or a mother who has received maternity support who would return to the labour market, is also entitled to this benefit, which, I stress, is much higher than the current limit of HUF 100,000. So they can be supported up to the minimum wage. So we think that the press reports that the government has left this employment group on the side of the road are just the opposite, who is in real labour market trouble, precisely to those who are helped by the government, and in those groups where we see that there is no incentive effect on these benefits, we do not consider it justified to maintain it. So we think that there will be a much more rational and targeted support. It has also been said in Mrs Bangóné's speech that the expectation for pensioners' cooperatives was that this round would help the labour market with tens of thousands. The point of our proposal is to ensure the same conditions in addition to pensioners' cooperatives for those who are otherwise retired and want to return to the labour market, but where appropriate, there is no such cooperative in their physical environment or neighbourhood, or for some reason they do not wish to join this cooperative. We believe that this proposal creates the possibility that everyone who wishes to join the labour market can do so with minimal administration and minimum tax payments. She also said in her speech that the proposal would be exempt from the minimum wage, and this has been said several times. Here, too, I would like to remind you that most of the OECD studies and the indicators referred to by you, the size of the tax wedge, always bring single families and individuals without children. No indicator highlights the importance of family tax relief, which we consider to be particularly important in Hungary. So it is true that in the case of childless singles, the tax wedge is high, and in Hungary we take continuous steps to reduce this and reach the regional level. However, I would like to stress that today, in the case of the minimum wage, a family with two children or even more children, let alone the minimum wage exemption, but not even the full contribution has to be paid. Thus, the sija exemption has been guaranteed for years, but where there is a tax reduction, so to speak, because we are talking about minimum wage income, and because of the two or three children there is an extra tax benefit for families, it is possible to charge contributions. So, not only can we guarantee the minimum wage tax exemption, but we can guarantee the exemption of contributions, or at least a reduced rate, for families with two or more children. Congressman Varju has referred to the fact that the agreement that we have concluded in the framework of the BKF creates uncertainty in the six-year wage agreement and that conditions cannot be expected. Here, let me confirm that there are strong and objective conditions in the agreement, which says that once the real wage increase conditions are met, the social contribution rate will be reduced. Since it is conditional, it means that if the conditions are implemented more quickly, the government will be able to make this 2 percentage points decrease faster, so that if this is possible slower, it will be slower. Obviously, the primary aspect here was also that the budgetary margin would allow for this reduction. So an irresponsible, premature reduction would obviously carry great risks, but when this condition is established, this agreement will ensure that we can immediately give this discount to employers. So you don't have to wait until the next anniversary, so even during the year, the government can give you this tax reduction if the conditions give you the opportunity to do so. Again, I would like to turn back for just one last thought, otherwise I should have said this earlier, that there were several declarations made in relation to the employment of 55-year-olds about how large a layer is for 55-year-olds who do not work and that they do not have a job. You should see that the rate of inactivity in this circle is very high. This means that it does not want to go back to the labour market, so the number of inactive people is relatively high in this circle. What I think, however, describes reality much better is the unemployment rate, which is lower than the national average in the population over 55 years of age. It is around 3.7 percent, so I think that the risk that people over the age of 55 face a huge unemployment threat is not real, because we see that their unemployment rate is lower than the national average. So I think these fears won't hold up. I have briefly written these for myself, thank you very much once again for your attention, and thank you to the governing parties for your support, and I ask you to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-26-144	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. There will be a general debate on the amendment of certain tax laws and other related laws, as well as on the draft immigration special tax until closure. The government referral is T/625. It is available to all of us on the House's IT network. Dear Parliament, I would remind you that the Parliament has decided to negotiate the general debate on this proposal within a five-hour time frame. I now ask Mr József Attila Móring to explain the timeframes of each faction. Here you go.
u2018-06-26-145	Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group has 103 minutes, 47 minutes for the KDNP Group, 43 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 32 minutes for the MSZP Group, 25 minutes for the DK Group, 24 minutes for the LMP Group, 21 minutes for the Dialogue Group and 5 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 20-20 minutes lead speakers. [[15.40]]
u2018-06-26-146	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. We have heard, ladies and gentlemen, that in this debate, the speaking time is 20-20 minutes. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Izer Norbert, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-06-26-147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, The planned tax changes in the draft legislation on individual tax laws and related laws, as well as in the draft immigration special tax, focus on the radical reduction of tax administration, simplification and continuation of tax reductions. It is proposed that changes in personal income tax are in line with the government's efforts to significantly reduce tax administration obligations for individuals and paying agents. In this respect, it is a very successful measure that the tax authority prepares a draft personal income tax return on the basis of the information available to it from 2016 onwards. The proposal further expands the staff involved, for whom the tax authority prepares the draft declaration. In addition to private individuals, farmers and individuals liable for general sales tax, a draft declaration will be drawn up for those carrying out individual business activities, after which the draft can be approved as a declaration after adding the data relating to business activities. In this context, the deadline for reporting also changes to 20 May for self-employed persons. So far, that deadline was February 25. In the spirit of simplification, it will also be possible for private individuals to fill in their statements necessary for determining the advance by electronic means and submit them through the customer gate, which the tax authority will then forward to the employer or paying agent indicated in the declaration. This includes family benefits, first-wives' discounts and personal benefits, as well as statements to take into account costs. Following the request of businesses, tax rules related to cafeteria systems operated by businesses will also be simplified and more transparent. The National Association of Employers and Industrialists, whose basic task was to protect and support domestic companies, explicitly requested that the government review and simplify the cafeteria system. Based on the data available to the financial portfolio, it has been found that it is not typically the most deprived workers with income close to the minimum wage who benefit from the cafeteria. Currently, a fraction of businesses, only 24,000 employers, pay cafetheria, the average income of the employees is high, about double that of employees of non-cafe companies. However, according to farmers' feedback, the system has a significant administrative burden, so smaller companies typically do not pay their employees any extra-wage benefits at all. The government's aim is to encourage companies to give their employees freely available money instead of benefits or vouchers that can only be used for a specific purpose, as the work carried out is paid for by everyone, not by vouchers. Therefore, in order to reduce the cafeteria system with many benefits elements, which often play the role of a pay-per-view driver, the scope of benefits that can be granted under a reduced public burden will be changed so that only the three sub-poenas of the SZÉP card can be granted with such a reduced public burden. There is also a significant reduction in the scope of benefits that can be provided with a higher burden than the reduced, but lower than the public burden on wages. Thus, I think it can be said that the amending effect of the proposal is twofold: on the one hand it simplifies the system and on the other hand it further increases the positive role of the SZÉP card in economic development and economic promotion. In addition, the SZÉP card has now become a benefit element focusing on recreation, which serves both the recreation and recreation of families. According to the Association of Hungarian Hotels and Restaurants, the transformation of the cafeteria system can also help improve the country's competitiveness, as in 2017 guests paid more than HUF 17 billion in Hungarian hotels with SZÉP-kartya, which accounted for almost 20 percent of the domestic accommodation income of mainly rural, family-owned pensions and hotels operated in SME form. The proposal also initiates a number of minor, clarifying amendments. For example, the administrative obligations of individuals renting their immovable property are simplified by the proposal that, when determining taxable income, no income should be taken into account for the costs of the rent paid by the tenant, which could otherwise be charged as a cost. Families are assisted by the amendment whereby the employer can accept the kindergarten fees from 2019 even if the institution issues the invoice in the name of the parent. In the past, only the invoice issued in the name of the employer was acceptable on this item, which resulted in additional administrative work. This is what we want to resolve from 1 January next year. The government also supports families by contributing to a small amount of expenditure on obtaining a licence for people under 20 years of age. The proposal considers this aid to be exempt from tax from 1 January. Dear Parliament, The tax and contribution charges linked to employment, self-employment will be facilitated and a number of positive changes will be made. The most important of these is that, in order to reactivation of pensioners benefiting from pension benefits in their own right, the employer's social contribution tax of 19.5 per cent and the training contribution of 1.5 per cent will be abolished from 1 January 2019. The amendment also results in relief for pensioners, since they will only be subject to a personal income tax after their salary, and will no longer be liable for contributions, since they will be subject to the abolition of the pension and health insurance contributions in kind. So, in short, only the 15 percent girl will pay the wages of pensioners. It is also a positive change that, in the case of a benefit from the social contribution tax for persons with disabilities, the circle of beneficiaries is extended, so that self-employed individuals are included in this area, thus supporting the self-employment of these persons. Changes to corporate tax have also made a significant contribution to making the tax system more competitive in recent years. This is no different in the case of the bill before you. With regard to corporate tax, the proposal seeks to refine existing legislation, which also facilitates application and interpretation of law. In particular, the system of energy efficiency benefits, which has been of great interest to date, will be further developed by the bill in order to ensure that energy efficiency investments and modernisations are made available to the broadest possible range of energy efficiency investments. The level of tax relief is also changing: the proposal proposes to increase the aid intensity in line with the EU's options. In order to improve competitiveness, the requirements for the development reserve threshold will also be reduced. Under the proposal, instead of HUF 500 million, from 1 January 2019 HUF 10 billion could be subject to this rule, i.e. taxpayers who apply this rule can benefit from the tax advantage of almost HUF 1 billion and thus benefit from this discount in the form of advance depreciation. Supporting start-up businesses is a key government objective, including by tax policy means encouraging the creation of these innovative enterprises and their access to capital. This will be achieved by reducing the amount of tax base relief that can be applied at the annual level in the event of a tax base benefit for an early-stage enterprise. Here, there has been a 20 million HUF tax relief limit, and we have now limited it to 20 million HUF for an investment. So it will be a much wider opportunity to take advantage of this tax relief. The bill also allows shared validation of the tax base reduction line that can be used for research and experimental development services. This means that the proposal will make more use of the costs of research and experimental development services in the future, and that the costs of domestic R &amp; D services can be realised on the customer's side under certain conditions. The proposal makes the sharing of the benefit subject to strict conditions. The Parties shall provide for a joint written declaration of division. They will also be jointly and severally responsible for the reality of the declaration. In line with the priority objective of supporting families, in future, the costs of preschools at work will be recognised for corporate tax purposes. With the introduction of an amending item, the proposal settles the tax base difference between IFRSs and Hungarian accounting taxpayers in view of the change in IFRS 9. The proposal also makes it available for taxpayers applying IFRSs to enforce depreciation per component in determining the corporate tax base. Regarding corporate tax, the bill proposes a number of administrative simplifications. In this context, the rule on the examination of tax debts exceeding HUF 100,000 will cease to exist when the tax declaration is made, and the tax debt should accordingly be examined only before the offer is made. In the case of civil society organisations, the scope of application of the simplified declaration is extended. The cost recognised under the proposal is the cost of the free allowance even if the NGO receiving the allowance only declares that the aid was not granted to its business activities or that the civil society organisation did not have a tax liability on its business activities. [[15.50]] In the case of taxpayers converting to IFRS accounts, the reporting obligation for the amount of the transition difference and the expected amount of equity capital under IFRSs and of the equity capital under the Accounting Act prior to the tax year of the transition will be abolished, given the fact that they are subject to the transition and the majority of those wishing to convert have already made the transition. In order to ensure coherence between legislation and to ensure consistency with the provisions of the Tax Code, the bill states that the choice to apply tax relief can be self-checked in relation to corporate tax. As regards the innovation contribution, the proposal provides that all relevant provisions of the SME Act are to be taken into account in the assessment of the taxable nature. This means that only a taxable person qualifying as a small enterprise taking into account the data of the related or partner undertakings may be exempted from the innovation contribution. In the context of the proposal, the NRDI Fund's revenue is expected to increase, with a higher amount of funding to support R &amp; D proposals. Dear House, The development of small businesses is one of the driving forces of Hungary's economy. A simple and competitive tax system is an important element of their development, and this is ensured by the small company tax introduced from 2012, which has become even simpler and more competitive since 2017. The government's aim is to continuously expand the range of taxpayers using small enterprise tax. The success of this effort shows that the number of taxable persons has increased almost five times in the last two years, so that 28 thousand companies will apply this innovative new tax in 2018. In order to further increase the number of taxable persons, the entry threshold for revenue and balance sheet total will be doubled from HUF 500 million to HUF 1 billion from 2019 onwards, and the revenue threshold resulting in the loss of taxable persons will increase by three times, from HUF 1 billion to HUF 3 billion. As a result of the amendment, a wider range of small businesses can switch to small business tax and continue to have the possibility to apply tax in the course of the company's growth, thus increasing incentives for these investments. The proposal complements the regulation of small business tax with detailed provisions to avoid double taxation, which will further improve the consistency of small company tax and international conventions, and will also make more transparent the requirements for the treatment of income from abroad. The bill contains further clarification and technical amendments to the application of the Small Business Tax. It makes it clear that small business taxable persons will cease to exist if the balance sheet date of the business year is changed. In this case, the day on which the small enterprise taxable person ceases to exist will be the day on which the balance sheet was chosen. In order to facilitate a clear application of the law, the proposal states that, in the case of taxpayers who are registered under a small company tax, the amount of the debt recorded by the State tax and customs authorities should be examined in the same way as that applicable at the time of the termination of the small company's taxable amount, i.e. the company's enforceable net tax liability recorded by the State tax and customs authorities should not exceed HUF 1 million. In the light of the success of kiva and kata in the technical language, the specific tax on small companies and small companies does not offer as much advantage as the eva, which was introduced with effect from 1 January 2003, under the maiden name of the simplified enterprise tax. In recent years, the competitiveness of the Eva has been steadily reduced, thanks to a significant reduction in the corporate tax rate and the introduction of new, simple taxes that are favourable to taxpayers. As a result, the submitted bill initiates the elimination of the eva option. It is proposed that the Eva should be selected for the last time until 20 December 2018, after which the transition will not be possible. At the same time, taxpayers who make use of the option of choosing the Eva until the deadline or who are currently subject to the Eva may continue to be subject to the law and use this tax. According to another amendment of the Eva Act, it eliminates the binding order of the use of dividends in accordance with the Accounting Act. Most of the financial institutions now apply international accounting standards, i.e. IFRSs, and therefore the bill ensures that converted taxpayers can also establish the tax base for the bank tax according to IFRSs. The bill also proposes positive amendments to the regulation of the FTT. From 1 January 2019, all retail transfers will be free of charge up to HUF 20,000 per transaction. We believe that the measure will help to reduce the black economy by reducing the use of cash and facilitating the further spread of electronic payments. An additional rule has also been included in the proposal that if the Treasury executes a payment transaction for other treasury account holders than the account holders in the treasury, the financial transaction fee will be up to HUF 6,000 per operation as proposed. So we can apply the same ceiling in this case, which is the general ceiling for the transaction fee. We are also simplifying the customs administration area by bringing out the legal institution of the procedural fine. The procedural acts in which infringement practices are to be sanctioned shall be implemented in the current system of administrative fines. Therefore, in order to avoid the imposition of two parallel fines, only one fine will be possible in the future. A further amendment proposal is that we have refined the rules of customs representation on the basis of the indications of farmers, and we have made minor technical clarifications to facilitate the application of the law. Dear Parliament, In economic life, more and more buying incentives are emerging, and in addition, electronic commerce is gaining ground. Accordingly, the bill, in line with EU rules, sets out specific general traffic tax rules for the sale and transmission of vouchers and introduces facilitations for the VAT management of cross-border e-commerce, especially for small businesses. In order to continue effective action against tax fraud, the bill extends the provisions on the reverse taxation of greenhouse gases, certain cereal and steel products. In order to improve economic relations with countries outside the EU, the bill creates domestic conditions for mutual VAT reimbursement for Turkey and Serbia. The amendment of the excise law is intended to address problems which have been identified during the application of the law and which can be corrected by law, and therefore, in the case of a taxable deficit detected by farmers, no excise penalty will apply after the amendment. In addition, the administrative burden will be simplified, for example, the annual stock take-up will remove mandatory official presence and the amendment will include a number of facilitations, such as a five-fold increase in the quantitative limit for the production of small wine producers' sparkling wine. I would like to highlight two important amendments from the local tax changes. One is that the municipalities will be given the opportunity next year to benefit from the business tax at local level and thus encourage the establishment of businesses in the settlement. They must make a provision for this in their local tax regulations. The regulation may specify the form and extent of the business tax advantage for all undertakings under the same conditions, and may also provide that the benefit may be transferred to other tax years, but it may also be stipulated that part of the tax year tax is to be paid irrespective of the value of the investment. The tax administration burden on businesses will also be further reduced in local taxes. In this context, as of 1 July 2019, the obligation to register and report changes to the local government tax authority of the home municipality will be substantially terminated, as this will be triggered by the disclosure of information to the local government authority of the state tax authority. In practice, this means that the tax authority will make these transfers to the local government. Dear Parliament, The government is committed to healthy lifestyles, health-conscious nutrition, and the prevention of diseases in general. This is partly the reason for increasing the rates of the public health product tax, and partly the fact that their specific rates have long been unchanged. For this reason, we do not want to discuss with the European Commission any further, but we want to conclude the infringement procedure in relation to alcohol products, although we do not agree with the Commission's position. We want a change that makes taxation of alcohol products unease, i.e. uniform in the public health product tax. The proposed amendment to the Accounting Act serves to transpose changes in the legal environment through the requirements of the Accounting Act and contains additional provisions to clarify the establishment of a single accounting practice. The statutory provision is supplemented, inter alia, by provisions relating to the currency of the bookkeeping, the accounting of the negative interest rate and the timing of the amounts received in the form of grants. The requirements for clearing the assignment of claims and the provisions of the Ptk are clarified. It is also noted that the proposal for the use of the taxable profit is, in substance, identical to the proposal for the approval of dividends. [[16.00]] The cash flow statement requirements will also be reviewed in order to ensure that the items of cash flows are presented as accurately as possible. In the event of a merger or merger, the bill allows a statement of business or business value to be made in the event of a merger or merger in order to exclude the shares in each other. This technical accounting was not possible earlier. The condition of this is that the purchase price is validated even when the holding is purchased, the value of the business or of the company, which was only part of the cost of the purchased holding, and could not be shown separately. Therefore, it will be possible to detect business or business value under these conditions. In addition, the bill clarifies the requirements for IFRS reportrs, including the equity capital table, the mandatory content of additional notes, the business report and the rules on dividend payments. The bill complements the rules on the processing of data for those carrying out accounting services and organisations carrying out their compulsory annual training in accordance with the requirements of the Act on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information. Dear Parliament, The amendment of the rules on auditors clarifies or complements the procedural rules on official matters, as well as the provisions to assist, clarify and complement uniform practical implementation. Chamber member auditors and audit firms may carry out audit activities at banks only on the basis of a certificate issued by the public oversight authority. The bill contains additional provisions on the scope and period of validity of the certificate. The proposals for amendments, which include the professional and practical experience of formal audit training, include new provisions on the conditions for the entry, duration, main areas of study and the participants in the formal audit training. On the initiative of the Chamber of Auditors, the bill establishes the legal institution of the supporting person, the supporting organisation and the senior auditor. The supporting person, the supporting organisation and the senior auditor are not entitled to conduct audit activities, but may also participate in the chamber's activities, and may also use certain services of the Chamber. The detailed rules of these will be laid down in the Chamber's statutes and certain other rules. In the Accounting Act, we defined the framework. Dear House, A regulated real estate investment company can be established in Hungary since 2011. In recent years, the relevant rules have been refined in several cases, with the result that regulated real estate investment companies are currently operating. The amendments contained in the bill address the practical issues raised by the operation of the already established regulated real estate investment companies and their presence on the stock market. In addition, the proposed amendments will help create and market new real estate investment companies. Keeping the essential elements of the original regulation, the bill clarifies the concepts of the head office person and the body performing management tasks, the provisions on dividend payments and the scope of activities that can be performed by the regulated real estate investment company and its project companies. In addition, the bill also provides for the possibility of a significant increase in the public stock exchange ratio with the possibility of issuing priority shares, while ensuring adequate guarantees for the long-term operation of the regulated real estate investment company. Dear Parliament, As far as the immigration special tax is concerned, the situation is very simple. There are organisations that take the view that immigration is a positive process, that it needs to be strengthened and that resources should be invested. In addition to the fact that the government has a radically different view of immigration and its effects, modern-day migration and its promotion also cost the Hungarian state considerable costs. Due to the principle of public burden-sharing, it cannot be accepted that organisations which cause an increase in expenditure on our community as a whole should not contribute to the sharing of social expenditure as a consequence of their activities. In particular, often these organisations, typically civil society organisations, are exempt from public burdens. Therefore, organisations providing financial support for immigration activities must pay a 25% special tax on the amount of the aid, and also give a statement to the supported organisations assisting immigration in Hungary or based in Hungary that the tax has been paid. If they fail to comply with their tax obligations and do not provide such a declaration, the immigration support organisation and not the funding organisation will be subject to the tax. Dear Parliament, Finally, but not least, I would like to point out that, in order to simplify the tax system, we are proposing to abolish more taxes in this bill. We propose to abolish not too significant taxes, such as the 75 per cent special tax, the special tax on credit institutions and the cultural tax, which also serve to simplify the tax system. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-26-148	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Erik Bánki, who is speaking from here on the platform. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-06-26-149	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The tax package in front of us, if the Parliament naturally accepts this, leaves hundreds of billions of forints in Hungarian families, the population and businesses next year in addition to a reduction in administration. One of the most important elements of the motion is the further expansion of the family tax scheme. The following year, the tax relief of families with two children will be increased by HUF 5 000 per month, i.e. by HUF 60,000 per year more than each family with two children, as the rate of tax relief increases to HUF 40,000 per month. Five types of taxes will be gone next year. It is proposed that, from 2019 onwards, no one will have to pay a 75% special tax, the credit institution special tax or even the cultural tax that has been paid separately. The accident tax and the health contribution will be abolished, the former will be included in the insurance tax and the latter will be included in the social contribution tax. One of the most significant reductions for businesses will mean that the social contribution tax will be reduced by another 2 per cent to 17.5 per cent next year. As a result, since 2010, it has decreased by nearly 10 percent, from 27 percent to 17.5 percent. This tax reduction will not stop, as we will reduce this tax to 11.5 per cent in the framework of the otherwise unique six-year agreement concluded by employers, workers and the government. The bill before us also contains a number of elements that have been developed to reduce the administrative burden on taxpayers. In addition, it sets out as a priority the promotion of the return to the labour market of workers entitled to old-age pensions, where it will serve this purpose with tax and contribution reductions. At present, about 70,000 people are working with pensions, and as a result of the positive changes, we hope that the number of pensioners will continue to increase significantly in the next period. The bill also includes a number of simplifications that have become necessary on the basis of practical experience, together with elements that ensure harmonisation with EU legislation. Dear House, According to the motion, the administrative obligations imposed on individuals and paying agents for personal income tax will be further reduced in 2019. Next year, the tax authority will also involve individual entrepreneurs in the e-sya system, allowing them to fulfil their tax obligations by supplementing and improving the draft declaration prepared by the Office. At the same time, it is possible for the taxpayer to submit a family discount, a discount for the first married person, a statement for the application of personal preferences and taking into account the costs via electronic means, through the customer's gateway system. Retirement workers and their employers will be better off next year. In 2019 only 15 per cent of the income of workers under old age pension is to be paid personal income tax, i.e. the current pension contribution and the health insurance contribution in kind will be abolished. In addition, an undertaking employed in employment for the benefit of the self-employed old-age pension is exempted from the payment of the social contribution tax and the vocational training contribution. In recent years, the government has reduced VAT on a number of basic foods. Next year, the sales tax on poultry meat, pigmeat, fresh milk and eggs will be reduced, and this will be UHT and ESL milk, long-term milk. This amendment leaves some HUF 20 billion in families, households. [[16.10]] The reduction of burdens in the proposal also has a significant impact on businesses. This includes measures to improve competitiveness in the area of corporate tax. Next year, the aid intensity for energy efficiency investments will be increased, and the promotion of energy efficiency improvements will also benefit from renovations. Another advantage for businesses is that the thresholds for the choice of small company tax are further reduced and the regulation is supplemented by certain provisions necessary to avoid double taxation. Good news, ladies and gentlemen, that all previous peaks have been hit by investment in Hungary in recent years. The proposal to increase to HUF 10 billion the amount that can be placed in the development reserve and thus be used for investment is intended to strengthen the results achieved so far. At the same time, the amendment allowing the sharing of the costs of R &amp; D services between businesses will help to increase investment in innovation. One of the pillars of our economic policy was that the financial sector had to play its part in creating the resources needed to get out of the crisis. Now that the economy is on a long-term growth path, it's time to get the credit institution special tax out. This measure is expected to further boost the lending spirit of the banking sector, which could give a further boost to the growth of the Hungarian economy. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In order to maintain our country's competitiveness, further steps must be taken to simplify taxation. This is also the goal of a number of elements in the bill before us. This includes amending the Local Taxation Act, which further simplifies administration on several points. As of 1 January, the obligation to register separately or to report changes to the local government tax authority of the home municipality will be substantially removed because it is triggered by the disclosure of data by the State tax authority. It further encourages investment to give local authorities the opportunity to set a tax advantage on investment in their regulation. In recent years, the use of cash substitute currencies has increased, so all retail transfers from 1 January 2019 are exempted from the financial transaction fee up to HUF 20 thousand per transaction in order to strengthen electronic payments and reduce cash usage. Through the tax system, a number of objectives which do not serve to stimulate direct economic policy can also be pursued. This includes raising taxes on health-damaging products. As of 1 January, taxation of alcoholic beverages will vary within the public health product tax system and all alcohol products will be taxable in the future. In addition, health-conscious nutrition is intended to promote a uniform increase in tax burden in these areas in the light of changes in prices since the establishment of a public health product tax. As a result of the amendment of the Insurance Tax Act and, in parallel, the Public Health Product Tax Act containing detailed rules for accident tax, the system of insurance related taxes is significantly simplified. Accident tax will be levied, and compulsory motor liability insurance services will be taxed, like other insurance services, within the framework of the insurance tax. At the same time, the rate of the tax will also be significantly reduced. Dear House, As I pointed out at the beginning of my speech, the tax package for 2019 contains a number of simplifications that make it easier to comply with the tax procedure rules and serve the introduction of uniform terminology. The amendment of the registration tax law reduces registration taxes for small and medium-sized motorcycles, in the same order of magnitude as the reduction in tax products for passenger cars from 2012. At the same time, the registration tax on electric and hybrid motor vehicles will be reduced to zero forints in the bill in order to encourage the deployment of electric vehicles. The amendment of the Law on the Rules of Taxation concerns two areas. On the one hand, it creates an obligation for the tax authority to pay interest when its decision is illegal and therefore the taxpayer has a claim for reimbursement and, on the other hand, standardises the provisions on taxpayers who choose a different business year. It will also be a positive change for taxpayers that the administrative procedure will be supplemented next year with the possibility of an appeal against the order to exercise the right of retention. A procedural fine shall be imposed, inter alia, as an amendment to the customs territory. The amendment of the Accounting Act includes clarification and addition of the provisions on the transfer of changes in the legal environment through the requirements of the Accounting Act, the currency of the bookkeeping, the assignment of claims, the settlement of grants, the business or business value, the processing of data, the cash flow statement and the application of international financial reporting standards, in addition to the clarification elements to assist in the development of uniform accounting practices. The amendment of the Law on regulated real estate investment companies addresses the practical issues raised in the operation and presence of regulated real estate investment companies, thereby helping to create and market new real estate investment companies. The special tax on immigration is intended to give effect to the social responsibility of organisations supporting illegal migration financially. Organisations carrying out such activities shall be subject to a special tax if they grant financial or financial benefits to an organisation which directly or indirectly facilitates the growth of immigration by specific activities. The tax rate will be 25 per cent of the monetary or financial benefit on which it is based. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Before the elections, the opposition feared that if they were to win, they would increase the level of personal income tax and introduce new taxes on businesses. On the other hand, Fidesz will continue to provide one of the lowest levels of income tax of 15 per cent in the European Union next year and Europe's lowest income tax of 9 per cent for businesses. Fidesz has always represented a tax policy that has ensured both the reduction of the burden on people and businesses and the maintenance of the fiscal balance. This will not be any different with the tax package for 2019 in front of us. On this basis, I think that this draft tax, which the government has submitted to Parliament, is certainly worthy of support, and the government can expect that the Fidesz parliamentary group will support this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties. Gergely Harvestó: We are very relieved...]]
u2018-06-26-150	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-06-26-151	Mr President, Dear House, A Member who can speak as a leader of the opposition may feel lucky because they can say that in tax matters the responsibility is not on the opposition, which, where appropriate, determines the fate of a country's social groups. However, this is unfortunate from the approach of hiding in the shadow of the budgetary debate and not discussing fundamental philosophical issues, a tax dispute which, in my view, is not necessarily capable of revealing the deep layers of the problem in such a narrow and pathetic time frame. To say one of the deep layers: here we have listened to the fairy tale of Hungarian reality from my fellow Member, who is a national and fidesz. In my eyes, the reality is quite different, because, taking just one example, even some of the professionals make the 27-percent world-coding VAT call it a tax on the poor, or the tax type is the one that hits the most Hungarians in the most difficult line, but it strikes all Hungarians at the same time. To open up a little of these examples, let us think that in the midst of a demographic winter, so during an amazing population disaster, this government has been keeping the VAT content of child rearing articles the highest in Europe since 2010. Therefore, the symbolism of this, Mr Secretary of State and fellow Members, think about the fact that this government sees a population turn, wishes, and I support it, I support everything that points to growth. At the same time, this government is the one that taxes childbearing on the hardest percentage basis across the continent, in the other pocket, of course, through the family tax relief, which I also support, gives benefits to a large number of Hungarian families. But I do not see the systemic examination of this, which should be the basis of a tax dispute, how much this discount mass leaves the other pocket, let's say, with the 27 percent VAT, let's say, the unduly high overhead costs resulting from faulty public utility arrangements, and the fact that world market processes are not allowed to be fully absorbed into Hungary. Other examples could be mentioned, but I am sure that one of the highest tax wedges in the EU, which has been mentioned in previous debates, is hitting families at a level where I risk taking out almost the full mass of the benefits, these factors and factors that I have listed, in addition to the fact that the peculiarities in Hungary contribute to the acceleration of emigration. [[16.20]] So Hungary not only loses the taxpayers of the future, but also the entire Hungarian future, if you will, because we cannot replace the population required for reproduction, and even from this the emigration disappears in a brutally increased way by showing a decline in tenden-cia. We must say that one of the highest tax wedges within the EU, i.e. the volume of all tax and contribution burdens on the net, we have finally learned that, in a manner recognised by the government, it is an impervious and brutal process. Fortunately, Mr Secretary of State, in the previous debate, he knew that he saw this trend and that they were trying to change it. I'd be very interested to know what concrete steps you're trying to take. After all, we see that if we look at the tax wedge and the burden that is on an average employee in Hungary, the tax burden of Hungarian families is not only outstanding in Europe but also in the regional context, as well as the tax burden of Hungarian, let's say, single and childless. In my memory, these are still among the three highest in the OECD comparison to date. Minister of State, if we look at the quality of Hungarian wages in euro and not in forints, although the forint is obviously closer to me, but if we look at it in euro, you will also recognise that this is an excellent benchmark for comparison, for the fact that the increase in wages is slower than in almost any of the countries in the region. So not only are we not approaching, say, Germany or the capital Western European average, but there is a clear distance between countries. Here is the question: if the government believes that economic indicators and reserves of growth are adequate, they are widely available, why not mitigate, say, the most brutal tax on se-genies, the 27 percent VAT burden. But if we open this package a little bit, then at least all the basic food for VAT-tama By reducing to 5 percent, they could achieve an absolute substantial ease in the wallet of Hungarian families. But if the government were to dream even smaller, it would at least extend this benefit to all dairy products, instead we have the VAT reduction for UHT and ESL milk. The problem with these very selective VAT reductions, my fellow Members, is that it has been based on the examination of recent years when the VAT reduction also involved a price reduction, so it has been shown in prices. However, there were times when VAT reductions were combined with price increases for two reasons. On the one hand, there are substitute products, this is not surprising for anyone, so it is worth interfering and continuing a VAT reduction on a sufficiently wide scale. On the other hand, there is a lack of a moni-toring system that examines whether, in terms of, say, a large foreign chain of stores, if the price of a commodity increases and, by the way, the average price rises across the market, then real market processes or not will lie behind it. This is being investigated by more professional countries, and, where appropriate, the parties who do not follow market processes find themselves at the negotiating table, but rather at something else. I must also say that I am only able to reduce the overall VAT base for basic foods I could make it, and as I mentioned, by reducing the VAT on children's training articles to 5 percent and later to zero per cent after subpoena boxing with the Union. So that would be the national minimum that I think we could all do in the light of this budget. I'm sure I'd be willing to do it. I wouldn't waste a lot of words on a credit institution special tax. This will be deleted, but since this is a technical outlet, it would deserve a sentence or two at most. It's more important to talk about bank tax and credit institution benefits. In terms of the bank tax, I would recommend an indicator to the Secretary of State. Last year, the banking sector, which my position still has not been included under public burden, was able to produce 694 billion forints, which is largely responsible for the amazing Calvary of foreign exchange credit victims. This Calvary is so deep that I claim that what has been done to the credit-damaged people has contributed to the emigration spiral in a meaningful, measurable way; what has been allowed to multiply until 2010, and the sabotage that this government has done since then, namely its current, its predecessor and its predecessor, the last two Fidesz-KDNP and this very narrow government. Because the alleged solutions that they have implemented have not been able to free these em-bers from the trap. I'm not asking for an integ-rum restitution, the original status can't be restored here in many cases. You can't give back the broken families, you can't give back the ones that broke apart during your regency, or the lives of the people who killed themselves then. What I would have expected was that if someone had taken up their so-called loan at 165 HUF, they would have HUF 165 HUF. So Jobbik has been fighting and fighting for HUFing at the recording age rate for about eight years. The thing is, that's not what you did. The luckier ones were able to pay off, by the way, they invented market price forints for the simple Hungarian man without the Curia, the Constitutional Court or anyone else capacing you to do so. As far as the bank tax is concerned, we have seen that, while these banks were not burdened in a way that would have reduced the rate of the bank tax in the case of their record profits, let's say they should have. I have to say, Jobbik's clear demand is to restore the bank tax to the original 0.5 percent key. Not only because this would immediately result in an additional revenue of HUF 8 billion in the budget, no. From a public bearing point of view, justice demands this. In addition, a credit institution's allowance, which was previously released, could also be re-established, or at least be the subject of a professional debate. This could be worth HUF 10 billion to the budget. So it is not a burden that would only shake the banking system with a profit of 694 billion during the period concerned, but I think that, in the spirit of public burdens, at least it would be worth a debate. What deserves punishment and a bench of defendants is clearly a clowning around the transaction fee. After all, this government, its author, has repeatedly said that the transaction fee is levied on financial institutions, the legislator's intention is for the institutions concerned to pay this burden. Then, for our reception hours, an entrepreneur who had been sent out by his bank in a letter written down on paper came in - that due to the introduction of the transaction fee, he would be paid back and forth for five months and so much extra money. This could have happened without the government doing anything about it, calling on any of its subordinate organs to do anything, or at least asking the independent and qualified bodies to do something about it. You let the transaction fee pass through without moving your ears with two-thirds authority. So it all tells us that it's very, very, very helpless. I don't want to suggest that you can tell me about collusion with banks, because I don't think so, but I do: you made a pact with the Bank Alliance, where you promised not to put more burdens on commercial banks in order to improve the situation of credit victims. This government has also made a deal with the EBRD, and we have carried out this vi-ta many times with Mr Tállai State Secretary, and I do not wish to reopen it, because we are negotiating a tax package, but I must say that I find it untenable that the transaction fee has been passed on to retail and corporate customers in full measure. Last year alone, we are talking about 217 billion forints, an amazingly high number. I cannot put forward an acceptable economic, moral, ethical argument that could sustain this situation. So you have to touch this. In itself, the cosmetic thing that the Secretary of State Tállai mentioned earlier, according to which the client can essentially save up to HUF 20,000 from paying the levy, well, this is aspirin for the dying, Mr. Secretary of State. So in the case of an unjustified withdrawal of more than HUF 200 billion, clowning on the 20 000 items is tax-free, but otherwise we're pulling 200 billion off Hungarian citizens, it's a joke! If this government takes you seriously, it's a joke, and you have to intervene. [[For signal:]] It's not that funny, Mr. Secretary. The thing is, if you legalize that the banking system is looting the population under your laws, how are you better than those who forced foreign exchange credit contracts on the public? I would add that they also had a responsibility, because in 2001 unilateral treaty amendments were not authorised by a small bird, and it was not the extraterrestrials who allowed and allowed this. Let us think about who was in the government at the time, but this would once again overwhelm the framework of the general debate, and I will try not to abuse the patience of Mr President and those present. [[16.30]] However, I have to say that the so-called immigration special tax is included in this package, which slightly undermines and shakes the serious basis for discussing the tax package, and on the other hand, on immigration special tax, I think that it is only possible to hold a political debate, and my fellow Members will obviously contribute to this debate, and I would like to talk on a professional basis only about tax issues and only part of them. But it is very fortunate for Fidesz and KDNP that, according to this proposal, the parties do not fall into the circle that could pay a special immigration tax, because if the parties were to fall into this circle, then the entire wealth of your party family could pay this tax burden, because the twenty thousand rich migrants who were allowed to settle in Hungary with family members are simply insane, one of the financial assassinations of the century against Hungary, and, if you will, one of the biggest corruption cases of the century. But if there is a correct secretary of state here, and I say this in a non-cynic way, so don't misunderstand - who is prepared to answer the questions in substance, there is one in the course of budgetary debates, for example, I am referring to Benő Banai, who is sufficiently competent, and who is interested in what is going on in this House, and we have a meaningful dialogue with him; if there is now a character with similar abilities, let me take advantage of this opportunity. I am very interested in the immigration special tax that the Secretary of State feels the responsibility of the Fidesz-KDNP, say, in terms of the settlement bond structure, do you feel responsible for the damage to the Hungarian budget of 17.5 billion dollars? Who is responsible for this damage? Is there a history of accountability in this matter? These are rhetorical questions, of course. But what is at least as important is that brokerage companies, supposedly Fidesz-friendly brokerage companies, have been able to charge more than HUF 150 billion in brokerage fees, realize and store them as profits in the settlement bond business. Otherwise, I would be very interested in explaining to any Fidesz or KDNP representative how they can quietly lie down knowing that this financial hell, this financial assassination, has been unleashed in Hungary. So I find it quite amazing that you don't have answers to how the residency bond business got here. At least they explained earlier, although it was false, justified by the state of the national economy, the financing crisis and the need for a settlement policy. The fact is that we examined the data at the time and there was no need for such a level of funding, and even after a short period after the issuance of the bonds, there was a situation where the withdrawal from the international market would have been significantly cheaper than what had happened. So you're not gonna stand up for what you said. The other explanation was that it was good-good, not so good, but it exists in every country or almost every country in Europe. The fact is that this is not true either, there is no such corruption mechanism in Europe, and there is nothing that would have allowed good friends of government actors to break up such a hundred billion-dollar amount. If, on the other hand, the amount received from the immigration special tax will be used for border protection in the future, I would not necessarily be interested in the statement by the Secretary of State about this, because I do not believe that we would be border defence experts, either you or I, so in the case of such a tax package, it would be very important that I think of all competent and not only of my fellow Member István Happy, but also that, let us say, fellow Members of the Jobbik Group, who are competent for border protection, can explain to us how this source of income is spent on border protection, on which segment of border protection, on which territory, and, let us say, his partners in the budget amendment proposal submitted by the Jobbik faction, and according to which setting up an independent border guard is an unavoidable task, since it is untenable to date that soldiers, police do not serve in their places of service, but lead them to the border, and a situation which is bad for all parties. And setting up an independent border guard would be able to eliminate all this. But we also have to say that if we could discuss the tax package in its depth and not because of such a time-frame hybrid solution, then we should talk about the renegotiation of strategic contracts, including the intention of raising Hungarian wages, because the increase in Hungarian wages is even lower than the otherwise low productivity increase, so here, Jobbik's faction finds a pair of scissors. We could, by the way, talk about a lot of things from the Tao through the cutting-up of the cafeteria system, which my fellow Members will do. We could talk about the fact that there is one person in this room who can explain to me that most entrepreneurs, in terms of tao, naturally support the football and academy of the Upstairs, of course, on its own and well-meaning basis. Is there anyone here who can explain the fact that these companies support this institution on their own, with such a large amount of goodwill? I don't think so. And if, in terms of VAT, we do not get to the point where, Mr Secretary, this government has not reduced its 27 percent VAT, despite its promise, at least one national minimum, it should be at least that this House can accept, on the basis of a national minimum, that it reduces the VAT content of child-rearing articles, since the issue of national strategy, which is more important than preventing a population disaster, cannot be raised before us. I have my doubts, but I very much wish that we can get to the point where we all take these minimums for the future of Hungary. I myself and my faction are quite certain that we will take it if it comes to voting time. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2018-06-26-152	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-06-26-153	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, If we have said in the previous Socho Law, it is particularly true here that improving the conditions for economic growth, preserving the competitiveness of the economy and creating a competitive tax system are among the goals of the government, and that is why it is doing everything; this is another step; the 2019 tax package, which is now ahead of us, is yet another step towards achieving these goals. The amendments encourage the achievement of certain key tax policy objectives, promote harmonisation of laws, reduce the administrative burden for taxpayers and facilitate the return of citizens entitled to old-age pensions to the labour market with tax and contribution reductions. For the Christian Democratic People's Party, strengthening and supporting families is one of the most important goals, and it is therefore to be welcomed that the family tax reduction will be extended, the tax relief of families with two children will be increased to HUF 5 000 per month, to HUF 40,000 per month, that next year, the VAT on long-term and semi-preserved milk will be reduced to 5 percent, and that, in order to encourage online payments, all retail transfers will be exempted from the financial transaction fee by HUF 20,000. Z. Kárpát to my fellow Member, Mr Dániel, I would like to point out that a significant part of the family's transactions and transfers, over 70 percent, are about less than HUF 20 thousand, a significant part of the family's transfers, so this leaves significant money with them. I think it's important. In particular, the action taken in the interests of young people and the significant benefits associated with obtaining a licence are welcome. These measures will all reduce the burden on families, which is always a welcome measure. Another cornerstone of the tax package is that the 15 percent personal income tax will remain and Europe's lowest, 9 percent corporate tax will remain. The social contribution tax payable by businesses will be reduced from 19.5 per cent to 17.5 per cent from 1 July, as far as we know. The reduction in the load contained in the six-year wage agreement concluded in 2016 is, in our view, a significant contribution to further catching up on wages. We believe that if all the planned reductions in the contribution provided for in that agreement are achieved, the overall contribution burden paid by employers in 2016 will decrease to a lower rate, to 13 per cent, i.e. less than half, in 2022. A further cornerstone is the fact that only 15% of the income of workers under old age pension is subject to personal income tax in 2019. Five types of taxes disappear, no 75 percent special tax, credit institution special tax or cultural tax. The accident tax is incorporated into the insurance tax, and the health contribution to the social contribution tax was discussed in more detail than the previous bill. In order to preserve the health of the population, the public health product tax, commonly known as the potato tax, will increase by 20 percent on average from 2019. Next year, the tax office will also prepare a draft declaration for individual entrepreneurs based on the reporting of paying agents. I think that this will be a great relief for the self-employed. The cafeteria system is changing as set out in the proposal. We remember when during the socialist period French companies made billions in profits out of the country because of the voucher system; now this money is for the Erzsébet camps, by the way. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] , underprivileged children, disabled people or disabled people on holiday are being used by the government. [[16.40]] In order to determine the basis for public burdens, the multiplier of 1,18 will not be applied for benefits outside the wage, but the Széchenyi card remains the only favourable tax cafeteria element, only the aid referred to in its three sub-accounts will be considered to be a non-wage benefit at reduced public burden. In the proposal, we would reduce registration taxes for small and medium-sized motorcycles, as well as more money for citizens. The registration tax on electric and hybrid powered motorcycles is reduced to zero forints. The bill states that the simplified business tax will last be available until 20 December 2018, after which the choice of Evaalanity will no longer be possible. The amendment of the Local Taxation Act further simplifies tax administration on several points. As of 1 July 2019, the obligation to notify a change or register separately to the local government tax authority will be substantially terminated because it will be triggered by the disclosure of data by the State tax authority. Data can be communicated here through the customer gate; I think this is another bureaucracy reduction step. In this way, municipalities will be given the opportunity to set a tax advantage on investments in their regulations. Dear Parliament, As we know, the protection and security of Hungary has increased since 2015 due to illegal migration. Border lockdown, border hunting squadrons, lively defenses have considerable costs. In order to contribute to this additional expenditure on public finances caused by immigration, the current proposal introduces a special immigration tax, which will have to be paid after financial support for the activities of the Hungarian immigration assistance activity or the activities of an organisation established in Hungary. The tax is based on the value of the financial support for immigration activities and the rate of 25% of the tax base. And I think that the income from the special tax is an important condition that can only be used to carry out border protection tasks. My better fellow Member asked about border protection tasks is costing a great deal of money, such as the operation of border hunting units or the continuous maintenance of the physical border lock. This money will only be used for this. Immigration promotion activities include media campaigns related to the promotion of immigration, the continuation of media seminars and participation in, networking and operation of immigration, and propaganda activities in a positive light on immigration and illegal migration, in order to encourage immigration. The relocation of persons with the right of free movement and residence does not, of course, fall within the concept of immigration. Here, the tax is primarily the organisation providing the aid, which will have to declare to the recipient of the aid by the 15th day of the month following the transfer of the aid at the latest that it has fulfilled its obligation to pay an immigration special tax. In the absence of this, the immigration assistance organisation will become a taxing entity. The Party and the Party Foundation, as well as the organisation whose exemption is granted by an international contract or reciprocity, shall not be considered a taxable person. In our opinion, the proposal contributes to the objectives set by the government towards full employment, to support families, to improving competitiveness, so the KDNP faction supports the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-26-154	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2018-06-26-155	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, We would think that, during the parliamentary session, one of the most important things should be the negotiation of the tax law and the budget law. Mr Secretary, let me give you a compliment: at least you will sit down with honor, I hope you will respond, as in the law before you, to what you think about the opposition's speeches. But to add, I had such thoughts that I think it would be better to pack up and get out of here. It will be the same from my ridiculous KDNP and Fidesz fellow politicians tomorrow, we have no doubts, I am now spending my second term, this has been the case in the last four years - that there are three of them sitting in two of these important laws or today at the debate of tax laws, perhaps two more can come back. We are now in the majority, and we may be able to produce a two-thirds majority on the part of the opposition. [[Dr. István Apáti: You could have nearly four fifths!]] We could say that I think it would be better to close the door if there were a door in the meeting room and leave because there is no point in saying anything here. But let's just do our job because that's what we're supposed to do. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] I am pleased that, my fellow Member from KDNP, you should also tell your fellow Members that this is our job to sit here, because that is why we should be paid. I know the easiest thing to say is that we spend our days in a constituency, and that's where we do our duty, but I think that's the most important thing here under the law, let's discuss our opinion. In the tax laws and in the budget, we will also have to say that, after the election of Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and now President György Matolcsy, the President of the National Bank, is constantly preparing the Hungarian population in communication for the austerity package, the Fidesz austerity package, because he is constantly talking about a crisis, that Europe, the world and Hungary will probably soon reach an economic crisis similar to that of 2008. Orbán does not talk about other crises, and I have written down a few crises regarding tax laws that should be discussed, Mr State Secretary. Viktor Orbán and his representatives do not talk about the demographic crisis in Hungary, they do not talk about the emigration crisis, they do not talk about the housing crisis affecting Hungary very seriously, they do not talk about the crisis affecting education, they do not talk about the very serious social crisis, and I should have mentioned it first, because two thirds of the population are most affected by the health crisis. And I was the last one to write that: they do not talk about the mental crisis of the government itself, Fidesz and KDNP, because we are sitting here, talking about tax laws, and then tomorrow about the budget, and it is simply as if today's Hungarian reality were not perceived. In his keynote speech, Mr Secretary of State, my fellow Member of the KDNP, Erik Bánki, also said a lot; I am very sorry that after this very cheerful speech by the lead speaker, the companies, the economic indicators in Hungary, how tax will change positively for families, everything is fine, it is as if there are no problems left and that they will not be able to react to some things. I would like to start by saying a few sentences about the cafetheria in relation to the support of families, but I do not want to tell you everything, because my fellow Member will explain it further. You keep saying in every speech that the most important thing is the support of Hungarian families, everything they do is for Hungarian families. In the meantime, I said in my previous speech that one of the greatest success indicators could be, I would add, a complex problem if I mentioned demography, if the Orbán government could prove eight years of governance after progress was made. Unfortunately, no. There has been very, very little progress in this. After the change of regime in 2011, or, if I may say, after 60 years or 100 years, the least of them were born in Hungary, they barely exceeded 88,000 people. Of course, I will be critical here: we were after the economic crisis, after 2008, where very, very heavy burdens were placed on Hungarian families. But it must also be said that in 2011 the number of children in Hungary barely exceeded 88,000. Then we reached 2017, when only 93,000 children were born in 17th grade. Before 2018, the indicator improved by a teeny bit in 17 and again in 18 we experienced a decline in the number of births of children. Because of many problems, we can say why they will not be able to succeed in the birth of children. One of the problems I said in my speech just now is that one in six Hungarian children does not see the light of day in Hungary. Another very big problem is that one in ten women of childbearing age does not live and work in Hungary today. [[16.50]] Dear fellow Members, If we don't solve this problem, then anything, whatever tax laws you can bring in, any family support system, nothing will change, and it will even get worse. Because it comes from you: if fewer children are born, fewer children will be born in the next period, and fewer women of childbearing age will be born. It's a vicious circle. Basically, all I want is for you to admit that your kind of family support system that you introduced doesn't work. It's exactly the withdrawal of the cafeteria that shows this. We are talking about the tax exemption for housing employer support. It's gone. Tax exemption for housing aid for mobility... today, if we are talking about housing and housing crises, I do not know if you know that the development of a mamahotel has become a concept in Hungary too. Today, in order for a young couple to get their own apartment, they have to work 20-30-40 years. Twenty, thirty, forty years! He doesn't have a chance to get his own apartment. In the meantime, we're taking away some of the housing support system. Tax exemption of the fee paid by the employer on risk insurance, which is also abolished. The tax exemption of the employer's allowance for the repayment of student loans... is constantly said to support student loans, tax exemption for graduates, increase support, and then introduce a tax amendment, where another subsidy is withdrawn. They put you in one pocket and take you out of the other. They basically don't give us anything. The tax exemption for tickets to the sports event is very good for me, and I can't even think of sending people to the soccer game in Hungary even if they give tickets for free. But the problem is that they're still going to spend a lot of money on football, as I understand it, in the next year's budget, there's about a hundred billion forints planned for stadium construction. [[Dr. István Apáti: Crazy! For nothing!]] Do you know why it's terrible? In the European Union, Hungarian people spend less on culture in Hungary. We're in the back. Not because we do not need culture, we do not want to go to theatre, cinema, buy books; but because Hungarian people cannot afford it. Because most of their incomes go to overhead, self-preservation, education of children, and entertainment like their own, essentially just a minimal amount or nothing. If we take the support of families, Mr. Secretary, I hope you will explain. Although he said that the corporate tax concept of a kindergarten in the workplace would be introduced. As I understand it, he said that in a workplace where family daycare and kindergartens are established, this activity could be deducted from corporate tax. I'd like to ask you for information. Since the government has given companies the opportunity to create a family kindergarten and nursery, how many of these have developed in Hungary? Are you planning to award the nursery care fee, since it has also been said that in kindergartens the employer can pay the fee? I think it would be easier to cancel the kindergarten care fee, and then we wouldn't have to put the same method in one pocket and take it out of the other. It is very important to know how many kindergartens and kindergartens have been established in Hungary in recent years, which have been created by companies. I may be able to show it on my one hand and we may have already succeeded in Hungary. The second is the reimbursement of daycare and kindergarten meals by employers. I don't know if you know, Mr. Secretary, that more than 80 percent of children who go to kindergarten now eat for free. Then what must the employer reimburse? Or what the government doesn't dare to give to a very high-income family officially, can they now hide it from employers? And then they'll say that in the next period, 100% of children can eat free in kindergartens and nurserys. I would add that we can also open a debate about the need for such a discount meal or not for the children, but it struck my ears that, if it is more than 80 percent for the children, then why should a family with a very high income relationship be given the opportunity to pay the allowance. I hope you can answer that, Mr. Secretary. The other is the expansion of family tax incentives, because after four years we now get to the point that the tax relief of the two children will reach 40,000 forints. Mr Secretary, we have also repeatedly said that we would consider it very important that the family allowance be increased. He was last raised by the Bajnai government in 2008. The child receives the family allowance. We can also open a philosophical debate about whether this is good or bad. It's the child's allowance, not the parent's. Basically, when the possibility of family allowances was extended to all children in Hungary, one of its main objectives was to eradicate child poverty. I can now say that since 2008, it has not lost 40 percent, but more than 50 percent, in real terms, of this amount, which was one of the most important family support systems; compared to the fact that family tax relief is a distorted family support. You yourself said that you couldn't use it in the two children or in the three children who didn't have that much income. Then they realized after 2015, I think they realized after 15 - that, let's say, a family with three children would have to earn more than 600 thousand forints a month to make use of 99 thousand forints. I think the mother and father had to earn more than 600 thousand forints in 2015 in order to enforce this on a monthly basis. We know very well that of the three children, it was minimal then, and even now, who had so much wages. It was the same for families with two children. That's when the law was passed that it could be written out of the medical contribution and the other contributions. This is how we got to the point that, Mr Secretary of State, who referred to it, there is no need to exempt the minimum wage, because anyone who is declared on a minimum wage and raises a child is essentially not paying a penny of tax. Mr. Secretary, I think there's something very wrong with that. Basically, the big problem is that in a family with two children, I think it's terrible to have a mother and father on a minimum wage. We know very well that today, about 50 percent of more than 4 million notified workers in Hungary are legally registered on paper at minimum wage. It's the worst. We also know that if you are registered at minimum wage all your life and I say we are talking about more than 50 percent - your pension when you retire will barely reach 50,000 forints. We'll talk about a pension of 50,000 forints sometime in 20-30 years. It's really not okay. Still, I say, Mr Secretary, that we should go back to the tax policy that the minimum wage should be exempt, and, after all, without paying a health contribution to an employee and all kinds of contributions, now basically move it from one pocket of the state to another, while health care will lack that budget line and the state will have to make up for that amount. The other, Mr Secretary, is that I myself have repeatedly mentioned that it is very right to support large families, and it is very right to support two children. But once in a while, let a government take account of those who do not have children and love and support those who have one child so that the second child can be born. May the first child be born, the second child be born, and, thank God, after as many two children as possible, the third child can be born! There is another very, very wide circle that you have been refusing to discuss for years: where a parent raises children, about single - parent families. [[17.00]] We are talking about half a million children in Hungary, and 95 percent of single - parent families have women raising their children alone. It is very important that we give these families special benefits, because the risk of poverty affects these families several times, such as where, of course, both parents raise children, and thank God if we experience both parents working. So I think that if we are talking about tax policy and how we should support families, let me say one more item, Mr Secretary of State. Here we talk about the VAT reduction for milk. My fellow Member, Mr Jobbikos, said that in recent years there has been a reduction in the VAT on pigmeat, then a reduction in the VAT on poultrymeat, a reduction in the VAT on milk and dairy products, only, Mr Secretary, there has been no talk of the drastic increase in the price of petrol in recent months, no matter what the VAT reduction is. It has just been announced that the prices of milk, dairy products, bread and bakery products will increase by 15-20 percent from August. If the price of gasoline... and I'm glad that Secretary of State Tallai is here because he can intervene overnight, we've seen in the campaign that he can handle this problem overnight. [[Defiance.]] And we'd like to do it now, because we've been suffering for weeks now because of the high gas prices. The persistently high price of the petrol price entails [[Depreciation, interruptions.]] I am pleased that you have become so cheerful about my speech, the high price of petrol implies that the price of all products, the price of all services, will increase dramatically in Hungary. Of course, this could also be a concealed tax revenue for the state, because we know very well that then excise duty will be passed on to the state after each product, and that makes no better income for a state than that the price of petrol is kept high, the government will not interfere. Once again, Mr Tállai State Secretary, it would be good if he acted as quickly as possible, and I think that we should also do so. So, there's no way they're gonna cut the VAT if we see that after VAT cuts, we're gonna buy at higher prices in stores. So perhaps I will mention some of the problems in my next speech, and I think that you should be a little more modest on the part of the government, and I can repeat myself again: we are going to make proposals for amendments, and I am asking Mr Secretary of State to support them on the part of the government. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2018-06-26-156	Thank you very much, Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Then I give the floor to Congressman László Varju, the lead speaker of the Democratic Coalition Group.
u2018-06-26-157	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Here's the tax salad law, T/625. We are discussing a number of proposals, from which it is worth quoting or mentioning that the priority of the amendments contained in the proposal is to encourage the achievement of certain tax policy objectives, to ensure harmonisation of laws, and to reduce the administrative burden on taxpayers. Let us look at how these objectives can be ensured in this law, because it is clear that our debate is already on the verge of a lot of criticism. I would also like to explore and analyse in more detail an area that has so far been less discussed in the framework of corporate tax, because I believe that a deeper analysis of an area contributes to understanding your whole philosophy, how it is done. But let us begin by saying that for these purposes, which you have listed here, what is really understandable at all! We are basically in favour of simpler taxation. We want a country where we pay taxes to contribute to public expenditure, that's a matter of fairness, that's a worthy civic virtue, but otherwise it also involves a legitimate civic consciousness. Taxpayers want to maintain an efficient state responsible for their work and taxes. What we need to see is that you are contributing to this in any way. That's what we have to do. We must prevent the state from draining financial resources from the economy, especially so that businesses and owners can really deal with what is their business: profit production, technological development and job creation. They should be exempted from unnecessary administration. It is the duty of the State to operate the simplest possible tax system, to ensure transparency of taxation and to introduce modern tax services. That's what we're asking for in this law. There is a need to simplify in all possible ways and to promote an ever-increasing publicity of taxation. Well, we can sense less of what you're describing. There's a lot of work to be done here. But let us see that the general needs of this proposal are met. This is what I see in the problems of the tax system. My first claim is that one of the typical problems of the Hungarian tax system is that it has remained essentially unchanged since 2010. Statistical data also show that the ratio of Hungarian tax and contribution revenues to GDP is constantly increasing. In 2006, 36,5 per cent, in 2010 it was already above 37 per cent, by 2015 it was 38,9 per cent and by 2016 it was almost 40 per cent. During these two decades, the degree of centralization has increased by 1 percent in Europe, and this is recognised, but the Hungarian rise is more than 3 percent. The Hungarian rate is 0.6 percentage points above the EU average in 2016, but it is the highest in the region compared to countries with similar development. Meanwhile, the government is always communicating tax cuts. Although the weight of direct taxes has decreased in recent years, the tax burden on labour income remains significant. In particular, the introduction of a single-key girlfriend has caused large tax wedges that are low-skilled and, at the same time, make it difficult for low-income workers to work. Between 2017-19 you will reduce the employer's social contribution tax by 9.5 percentage points in total, which may otherwise partially cover the possibility of raising wages to varying degrees per company, but there is no guarantee of that. Sectoral taxes on banking, insurance and utility services, energy, telecommunications and retail were suddenly around 1.5 per cent of GDP in 2016, while the reduction of bank taxes made it smaller than the 2 per cent peak in 2013, but in 2017 the reduction of the bank tax is not on the agenda. Corporate tax fell to 9 per cent by 2017, the lowest in the European Union, but it reduces its attractiveness that sectoral specific taxes, on average, generate the same revenue for the budget, so they take back the money. From a tax optimization point of view, Hungary has undoubtedly become an optimal country for many NER knights, but the VAT rate is the highest in the world, in the European Union, as we have heard from several speakers here. The lower classification of some products does not change this in substance. The government can be called the introduction of electronic tolls and various bleaching steps, for example, online cash registers have successfully increased its revenue. According to the European Union's assessment, all these measures will bring tax-related revenues by around 2 percentage points to 37 percent of GDP by 2018, which remains the highest among countries in the same region. In this respect, the amendments to the tax laws are regularly presented by the government in the form of such a salad law, which otherwise greatly hinders transparency. In some cases it would have been justified to codify, however, because it has created a rather amusing situation that, for example, in the case of personal income tax, when the single-key tax was introduced, the regulation should have been re-established, freeing from the elements that are typically linked to progressive tax, but that is what it is now. [[17.10]] How can it be simplified? Let's talk about this. Public accounts of companies should become mandatory, with a clear statement for all types of taxes. Online cash registers, as the Minister-designate undertook before the Committee on Budgets, must be extended to casinos, but so far we do not see any evidence of this. The number of tax types and discounts should be radically reduced. A tax service from the National Tax Office as a public authority should be set up to serve taxpayers. Whether it's a private individual, a natural person or a company. We are very much in favour of taxation and we are pleased that the Democratic Coalition programme is being implemented so that it operates exclusively on an electronic basis. There is a need for a targeted reduction in the overall turnover tax for basic foods, the Internet service and renewable energies. The rate of personal income tax needs to be reduced, but higher taxes should be imposed on incomes above HUF 1 million per month, while higher taxes should be imposed on incomes above HUF 3 million per month. In the area of personal income tax returns, we believe that there is a need for further major steps, and we believe that income tax returns should be abolished. Yes, the state should prepare it for everyone and thus contribute to seeing, together with the knowledge of the public burdens paid, what we have contributed as citizens so that the budget and the state itself can work. The calculation of the tax should be the responsibility of the State, so that fraud, error, delays and fines and allowances can be eliminated. By the way, they could make one out of two taxes by converting corporate tax and business tax into an excess tax, so that the municipalities can also benefit from it. At the same time, we have supported the reduction of corporate tax only for small and medium-sized enterprises, and we think of large enterprises to a greater extent. But let's keep looking. Some taxes, now in this case the corporate tax, this support, this particular form of corruption, we believe that it must be abolished. We need to ask how we will be a country of honest and proud taxpayers in this form instead of a country of privileged taxpayers as a result of a tax institution that has been used or operated in this way. Well, let's look at this option for corporate tax benefits. Let's look at this in a little bit more detail because of the data you have presented and provided so far, and I would like to highlight what is needed in the meantime. By the way, the budget shows how much you have spent or how much you have spent on corporate tax benefits in the annex to the accounts, based on the related laws or even the documents provided in the previous accounts. The same can be found in another document on the extent to which the tax authority records tax relief. If we compare these, we can certainly experience one thing: between 2013-15, the two data sources show that there is a difference of HUF 80 billion between the two in 2016. If all tax incentives are taken out of the benefits of the most significant sports subsidies, then we can see that the 23 billion HUF difference observed in 2015 was indeed reversed in the following year, but there was a difference of about HUF 60 billion in sports taxes. Indeed, the extent of this already requires that this should be discussed separately. If we compare the plans contained in the draft budget legislation with those published in the accounts, then it turns out that every year the fact itself exceeded the maximum, and I would like to present this situation here because we talk about tax revenues which otherwise affect the fiscal law, i.e. the significant revenue side of the budget, that we do not yet have any facts on 2017. There was no final report, and only you can know the data for 2018 partially, and in the meantime we need to talk about 2019, which is, in fact, completely unstable, and it is very difficult to talk about it in these circumstances, agreed by many experts. But returning to the fact that if we separate grants for sport and non- sport purposes, it becomes clear that although there is a significantly greater design error than non- sport benefits, which the government wants to show in the bill with a difference of minimum and maximum value, but the real problem is the systematic, increasingly serious underdesign of sports tax incentives. As a result, we have to ask questions, and therefore it is only in this area that we are talking about, as I said, only 60 billion forints last year. Why did the run-off of sports tax incentives in 2016 take place in preliminary data? What do you see from this? It's not that the government didn't ask the National Tax Authority what he kept in mind, it's that he's working from some kind of contract book? It follows from this, can it not be that this sum of HUF 60-70 and HUF 80 billion in other years means tax incentives, which will be enforced by those involved in the tax return in the future? 'Cause if this is validated in the future, you're gonna have to deal with that, too. It would be time for the government to ensure full transparency on the Tao discounts, in particular as I have mentioned for sport benefits. Only because in recent months we have experienced, as in the case of requests for data in the public interest, that, despite the fact that a court has ruled on the rules for the publication of data in this regard and has required you to have access to all of this, you refuse to do so, and even with the police, I could simply say that these documents have been seized. Therefore, please provide full information on the contracts already concluded by the Ministry itself, showing in the National Tax Authority's data and, by the way, between the budget, what data the Ministry of Finance records and, by the way, accelerate the processing of the declarations for 2017 and publish the figures for 2017 before the final vote of the Law of 2019, and therefore publish on 30 June 2018 the draft 2017 accounts that it will submit to the State Court of Auditors for verification. Now I would also like to move on to some details or more detailed areas so that I can highlight other areas, in addition to the steps taken by the tax authority in the framework of the Tao. We cannot go beyond the fact that the government is saying that it eliminates almost all kinds of cafeteria almost entirely because employers prefer to give this allowance as a wage. But there is no guarantee of that, and you know it. [[17.20]] The government's real objective is to better tax benefits that have so far fallen below the lower tax rate as an out-of-wage benefit. The government doesn't take any risks, he's gonna have more revenue. In the meantime, who's wrong on their own? It's the employees. We therefore object to austerity measures affecting the cafeteria. We believe that this plan will take thousands of forints out of everyone's pockets every month, as employers are not obliged to include any or all of the extra wage benefits that have been paid. The employee's monthly allowance will be reduced by thousands of forints. We therefore demand that they only reach into the cafeteria system if, by law, they guarantee that the extra-wage allowances to date will be paid to the employees. Meanwhile, Fidesz is telling people that we can see this from their statements - that the workers will get it. In my opinion, however, this is not the case, since companies have to pay more taxes on wages, and this will surely reduce the income of families after any extra-wage allowance. We could skip and talk about the abolition of the rules on transaction duty. However, in the case of transfers not exceeding HUF 20,000, a levy must be paid. On the one hand, the amount is very low, often the utility bill exceeds this amount. In this case, I think that what you want in this way with this regulation is rather ridiculous. On the other hand, the aim is to reduce cash flow, to open an account for the public and to pay by transfer, say you. For this purpose, a higher transfer limit would be set in line. If that's what you want, help the population in this regard. Although the proposal on social security makes the employment of pensioners more favourable, removing the related labour and employer burden, I would like to point out once again that, while this law also talks about changes to the social contribution tax, in a separate law, you are causing very serious damage to people over 55. Overall, this draft does not help workers, but it does not help employers. Tax revenue will continue to focus on your government's leeway, thus giving you an additional opportunity to spend revenue. In the meantime, we see that the tax liability, which lost its public money character at the Tao, is thus not acceptable for these reasons. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr President, so we cannot support this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the lines of DK and LMP.]]
u2018-06-26-158	Thank you, Congressman László Varju. I now give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2018-06-26-159	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you for the floor. Taxation is the basis for the functioning of the economy. An economy works well when the tax system works well. The logic formula is simple: we are getting a poor economy in addition to a poorly functioning tax system as a result. So it is no wonder that the economic policy model Fidesz has already condemned the majority of society to failure. They are one of them, who are now trying to earn everyday bread in many countries of Europe because of the lack of prospects in Hungary. They went out to work because they could earn the money to keep their families and themselves alive. But losers include a broad group of pensioners affected by old age poverty, including nurses, small entrepreneurs, and educators. Let's face it, the prehistoric sin in this regard is that a bad tax system has been developed, which has resulted in a gross increase in social differences since 2010. And the basis for this bad tax system is a single-key tax. Yes, please respectfully, the one-key tax that will tear this country apart, which will give it to the wealthy and take it away from the needy. Under the administration of Fidesz, the upper middle class was better off with 90 percent of society doing worse. Yes, my fellow Members, yes, dear Members of the Fidesz, all six of the people who are here in this Chamber are worse off than 90 percent of Hungarian society with a single-key tax. Because the government used the tax system to take money from the poor and give it to the richer, just as the European Union does when planning the next budget cycle. Of course, Gergely Gulyás was extremely upset about this, and you are doing the same in Hungary between wealthy people and those in need. It just doesn't matter which end of the lollipop is in our mouth, the sugar or the handle. I think it doesn't matter. Let us be honest, if you are upset that the European Union is working unfairly, then why are you doing this in this country? As a result, hundreds of thousands of people today are slaving around underpaid jobs and masses cannot break out of poverty, crowds are living in Hungary overnight. I know exactly what their answer is: the average net salary in Hungary is HUF 220,000. All I ask of you is that, at least here in this House, in Parliament, we do not play games or magic with statistical concepts. Mr. Secretary, look at me. [[Izer Norbert turns around and looks at the congressman. Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: He's the first secretary of state to look back.]] And thank you very much for that. In our family, the average hair length is shoulder to shoulder. So I have average hair up to my shoulders, dear fellow Members. That's what we're talking about! What we're talking about is that in the chasm that the average covers, there should be a solution to the problems. The latest employment figures alone say nothing about these people making enough money to make a living in order to support their families. Because, thanks to the government's policy, they have become the victims of the one-key tax, they are the ones who are hit by the European champion VAT, and I think my better fellow Member has said it more precisely, because he has said world champion, and I believe that the truth is there. And it's in question that they can earn their daily bread by working from sight to blindness. They and their children are fleeing abroad, they are nurses, teachers, social workers, music teachers, workers working in the waste-processing business, they are government officials in civil society organisations, and they could be classified for a very long time. They're the ones the government refuses to deal with. This has become the government's unsustainable tax system, nothing but a political product. The price of the new feudal arrangement will be paid by employees, wage sufferers, high labour and high consumption taxes. It's called kinky redistribution. Compared to this, LMP has been calling for a fair, sustainable, progressive personal income tax instead of a single-key tax for years. Because it's fair. This is fair in Hungary, and this is fair in distributions in the EU. I think that in order not to talk about workers' poverty, progressive personal income taxes are needed in this country. I completely accept the criticism that it wasn't the way it used to be. You can't charge the average tax with a high tax rate. But let's face it, together with 27 percent VAT and 15 percent personal income tax, it's an extreme combination. A fair and sustainable tax system is not capable of creating a perverted redistribution system, because it is this tax system that does not enlarge it, but removes social differences. It is this fair and sustainable system that takes into account how many people live in Hungary near or below the minimum living standards. This fair and sustainable tax system is capable of establishing tax-free personal income tax up to the minimum wage. Believe me, my fellow Members, if there were more for those living in the poorer ranks, it would stimulate internal consumption, because it is necessary for them to make a living every day. [[17 .30]] It's a very good defense against the crisis that you've just visited, Prime Minister. This fair and sustainable tax system is capable of giving average wage earners an average of HUF 36,000 more to take home. Believe me, ladies and gentlemen, today for a Hungarian family, 36,000 forints a month more income is an awful lot of money. That's why average wage earners need a 12-percent sja key to generate additional income. The above average wage requires a tax rate of 24 per cent which is still absolutely equivalent to social justice. Dear House, The government has continued in the last eight years what we've been getting used to in the last 28 years. Governments have always dreamed of an ideal family, trying to improve the support system. They had eight years to prove that they were able to reverse demographic trends and create a viable country for Hungarian families. They had every opportunity to make Hungarian families feel that they were finally getting their attention. However, this historic chance has been played by you. For a very long time, the whole system was just a balloon, a political product, because three children had only a meaningful discount. Families with two children for a long time and single children still don't count as Fidesz, although the vast majority of children live in such families. I note quietly, and it is easy for my male fellow Members to see, in order to have the third child, the second must first be born, and the second must be preceded by the first. Let's be honest, let's be specific, by the way, and if you have children, then you know the biggest burden is raising the first child. In the event that the burden of raising the first child burdens the family economy more than it can bear, it will not take on a second child, especially a third child. These questions are not answered by tax laws. Family is not just an abstract patostic term that can be twisted and twisted in the Fundamental Law at any time, as they please. Today, therefore, hundreds of thousands of families feel that they do not matter. We in LMP don't live in a pathetic world, we live in reality. Every family is important to us, to live anywhere, to have any number of children, and to raise them whether they are one or two parents, they should receive the same attention. The government still hasn't made the family tax relief system fair, because they still don't deal with single children the way they deserve to be dealt with. If we are really talking about demographic governance, as Mr.Orbán has put into it, then we should have doubled the benefits of the one child by now. It is not difficult to see that if having children when the first child is born puts too much pressure on the existence of families, they will not take on the second and third children. If we are really talking about demographic governance, the family allowance, the amount of the child should have been increased by 30 percent. They didn't! One - parent families should have had special tax incentives. They didn't! Once we are on government by the will of the electorate, we will, because I think that the kind of social policy that you are pursuing is at the expense of Hungary. The government should reduce employee contributions instead of reducing its employers. But they do more harm than they do because the government can actually reduce the old social contribution tax by means of a austerity. It's a good litmus paper for measures that the country is in economic policy trouble. In the meantime, there is an increase in the deficit due to electoral division, the stalemate of EU funds, and the rapid spending before the election. Economic world changes have begun, the end of the era of free money. The government is tightening up, and the restrictions are starting again, not on themselves, but on the workers. We find it unacceptable that the government wishes to maintain only the SZÉP card of the cafeteria discounts. I have negotiated today with employees' representatives, and I know precisely that this proposal, which is being drafted in this package of laws, has not been supported by employers' representatives or by employees' representatives. I think that you are the Government of Hungary, and I should say that it would be mandatory for you to take into account the views of the players in the economy. Therefore, we must state that restrictions are coming, and perhaps these restrictions have already begun. I mean, it didn't turn out, they took away the social contribution tax relief for the people who were in retirement, they took away the cafeteria, and I could continue the line. The government has continued its policy for the last 28 years, creating restrictions on workers. Dear House, MNEs are still significant beneficiaries of the current tax system. Many of these companies are in Hungary because of cheap wage work, and maintaining this structure is not in our country's interest in the longer term. However, the government grants them investment grants and tax incentives, their latest gift was a shameful reduction in corporate tax; 170 billion dollars is a gift, while Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises did not receive any meaningful help. The government stands by small domestic businesses in words, but does nothing for them. Fidesz has always fought for Hungarian family businesses, but the tax office is making the lives of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises miserable. Quietly, my fellow Members, I note that online invoicing, which will be mandatory in a few days' time and with regard to the notification obligation related to it, NAV staff are still unable to provide credible, real help to small and medium-sized enterprises. I think, by the way, even if I support this direction, it would be a lot of work for the government to give small and medium-sized enterprises support that they can use; and they will receive support that the National Tax and Customs Office will assume responsibility for once it has given an opinion. Family business is the best employer, since there is not only an employment relationship between the employer and the employee, but also a personal relationship in most cases. And most importantly, the family business is not going anywhere; it does not pack and move because of the promise of cheaper labour. It is therefore necessary to move towards revenue-related taxes in the taxation of small businesses. This will help their survival, their calm functioning, if they do not have to report bankruptcy after a bad month due to the penalty fixed items and then because of cumulative and rolled debts. That is why the upper corporate tax rate must be restored, the abolition of the upper corporate tax rate was an inexplicable gift for multinationals and large businesses. The 9 percent level basically makes Hungary an offshore country. That is, the country makes a living sucking other people's resources out of leeches. The government believes that we can win the tax race, even though the only winner of it is the multinational companies who are playing each other against the individual nation states and then taking the doubling, triple profits. This money, which is accumulated on the hands of a few, is lacking in the funding of public tasks. Dear House, Everyone is aware that Europe and the world's highest VAT rate are ours. The VAT reduction proposal in tax laws is completely random and neither fair nor sustainable. Most of all, he doesn't say anything about a social policy direction that I think you would be entitled to expect from the citizens of Hungary. Not one product should be placed under a discount rate, but the whole range of foods. We are well aware that taxation of basic foods with such a high VAT rate is unacceptable. Today, dear fellow Members, the state makes more money through VAT than the trader or the baker. It has not been announced by accident in recent days that a 15-20 percent increase in the price of bakery products is expected, otherwise due to the economic situation. If the government is truly committed to ensuring that people have access to basic healthy food, it can even support the LMP proposal, which is about including basic food under the 5% VAT rate. [[17.40]] I think that's fair, because it helps both the low earner and our richer partners to get healthy food at the same time. By adjusting the tax burden rates, we could support a healthy lifestyle and support disadvantaged agriculture and food sectors. Instead of demagogic money distribution, which would also help the middle and upper layer, LMP in Hungary would reduce VAT on fruits, vegetables, fresh bread, bakery products, flour, rice and freshwater fish to 5%. We also consider it important to point out that, thanks to the government's failed economic policy, more and more regions in Hungary are being isolated and lagging behind, thanks to the lack of real infrastructure investments. There is a housing crisis in Hungary today, and tax laws do not help to resolve this, and even if we take it very strictly, the elimination of cafetia, for example, in support of rents Makes it harder. Of course, I understand that you do not understand this, because housing policy is not in your dictionary, and I think that is a problem. But as a result, millions of young people are leaving Hungary, even though there is a need for a turnaround. By further reducing the VAT on building renovations, it would be more effective to support the creation of cheaper and energy-efficient housing, a sustainable reduction in electricity, which would not otherwise cost billions to municipalities, for example. I am here as a representative of a Green Party who believes in a truly just tax system, the values of sustainability and the real involvement of local communities. I must say that, in order to create a sustainable economy, it is necessary to increase product charges, as this is an incentive to introduce and disseminate materials and energy-efficient products and technologies. Revenue could also finance activities that strengthen these processes, such as support for green investment. This is where I told you about building insulation. Overall, I think that the shortest way to put this is to turn green. I also have to say as a Green Party representative that environmental users and mining companies do not pay for the environmental damage they cause. I think that it is precisely time, and we are very late, to see the principle of the polluter pays sometime in the Hungarian budget and in the Hungarian tax policy, because until the polluter pays, he is interested in overusing our home, our environment, and the overused environment will cause harm to our children and grandchildren in the first place. In order to create a sustainable economy, we also need to slow down climate change which is extremely threatening in our country. One way to achieve this is to reduce greenhouse gases that cause climate change, in particular CO2 emissions. The objective of the LMP tax policy [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] to create a simpler tax system that is more work-friendly and environmentally friendly, which is more incriminating on capital and the use of the environment. An important element of this would be the inclusion of what I have said. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-26-160	Thank you very much, Congressman Csárdi. I now give the floor to Mr Sándor Burány, the lead speaker of the Group of Dialogue.
u2018-06-26-161	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The bill before us is, of course, linked to other economic proposals, and it is inevitable that people sometimes look at these links in the context of other legislation. In view of the fact that I have already touched on a significant part of the tax package in the previous comments, I would like to point out here only in summary: after what has been said in the debate, I continue to maintain my view that the brutal feature of the Hungarian tax system should be removed that the minimum wage, the low incomes, will be hit by the Hungarian government and its supporters, with the world's highest tax rate and tax burden. Contrary to the statement of the Fidesz lead speaker, this rate of 15% cannot normally be stated as one of the world's lowest tax burdens because it is the world's highest tax burden for low earners. It would be in the interest of Hungarian society, Hungarian workers, to reduce the minimum wage tax significantly, as was otherwise the case during socialist governments. I also maintain unchanged my view that the tax change which, on the one hand, rightly releases the burden on pensioners, but at the same time eliminates tax incentives for people over 55 will probably have the labour market consequences that the owners, in their own interest, will discharge their workers over 55 but not yet entitled to old-age pensions in exchange for a cheaper workforce in the form of pensioners based on lower tax burdens. These changes and the maintenance of distorted 15 percent single-key personal income tax will continue to result in the country being split up. We shouldn't go any further on this road, but you seem determined to do so. In view of the fact that I have already mentioned this in more detail in my previous comment, I would not comment on any further arguments here. But I'd like to talk more about the cafeteria. The system of cafeteria, no matter what administration it entails, has ultimately resulted in a wide range of benefits for workers, employees, which they cannot otherwise benefit from. The government seems to have had enough. It has been overcrowded and, therefore, in this proposal, proposes that most of the elements of the cafeteria system be removed. For example, the government proposes to abolish the employer's allowance for housing purposes; the housing allowance for mobility purposes; the tax exemption for the premium for risk insurance paid by the employer; the tax exemption for the employer's allowance for student loans; the tax exemption for admissions to sports events, which may not be such a great loss, but for those who like to go to matches, that was the difference. But what's really serious, it's definitely a huge loss, it's the tax exemption for cultural certificates that could be used for theatres and concerts among others, and it's going to end now. You will also cancel the allowance of 100,000 HUF in cash. This in itself is a very serious and very negative change, but in addition, you propose in another legislation that the payment of ministers can reach up to HUF 5 million per month. These two together are quite simply impertinent. On the one hand, they propose to eliminate the advantages granted by the cafeteria, with which a wide range of workers were able to cultivate, to obtain cheaper housing, and I will not mention these opportunities again, while at the same time they do not transfer the possibility of ministerial payments and we will see what the practice will be to raise them to up to HUF 5 million. That's quite simply impertinent! I would also like to mention the abolition of part of the tax incentives for businesses, as it is proposed that the Eva be abolished. The simplified business tax, the Eva, was introduced in 2012, can actually be chosen since 2013. This was the first swallow in a series of tax incentives with which several governments otherwise supported small businesses. [[17.50]] I am personally concerned with the abolition of this tax, as I have been given in my political career to work as a state leader in the introduction of this legislation at that time. But that's not the point, it's not the personal emotion that counts first. What matters first of all is that this was an opportunity for a wide range of small business operators, which many even when this benefit was followed by other similar tax incentives and tax incentives to support entrepreneurs, otherwise in a welcome way. I just don't understand why we need to end this. For whom this preferential form is still in your interest, why shouldn't you work in this form? I believe that for small business operators, who cannot otherwise thrive in general in the face of tax incentives, unlike multinational companies, this was a very significant support option and therefore its elimination is quite simply unjustified. To sum up, my dear House. These tax bill proposals, as we are talking about more, continue to serve the distorted social image that Fidesz introduced in 2010, namely: it gives to those who already have it and takes it away from those who should just be given it. This social image is distorted. This is the decisive reason why society in Hungary has been fatally divided. There is more and more a high level of consumption that you can afford; you give new discounts to this layer every year. And there's a very low-income, low-income layer of this upper-level population, including pensioners, including low-income workers, for whom benefits would not only be extended, but, as I have just mentioned, even shrinking. This social image is distorted, it didn't work. Don't use it anymore. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2018-06-26-162	Thank you very much, Congressman Sándor Burány. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. For two minutes, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát will have the floor.
u2018-06-26-163	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to point out that according to Jobbik's faction, the unilateral reduction in corporate tax did indeed come up with a call for Hungary, and halfway out of public burden, multinational companies from which we would expect not only to bear public burdens, but also to bring the level of Hungarian wages at least slowly closer to the so-called Western average. At the same time, I would like to say to Mr Secretary of State that, on the basis of the draft budget, the expectations of corporate tax revenue are constantly decreasing compared to the expectations of VAT revenue. Obviously, this is because the tax burden on multi-company companies simply does not flow into the budget, so they are trying to do so in a different way, typically in the Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises sector, by the current government of Hungary. Mr. Secretary. In terms of the fact that I'm asking you to cut 27 percent of your record VAT, think about a number. It was clear from the previous draft budget that the expected VAT revenue was about 3839 billion, and that, according to the newer draft next year, we see 4286 in the proposal. We could argue about numbers, but the 11,6 percent increase in VAT revenue clearly means that even if we accepted your justification that the well-lived Hungarian people consume so much more, we could still say that, Mr State Secretary, there would be room for such an extra amount, there would be space to reduce the 27 percent VAT. I could argue that the Hungarian people are better at living or eating more, and the proportion of taxes they are charged with, but there is certainly space even on the basis of these figures. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] VAT reduction. The issue is the government's intention, which has not been achieved in action on this issue for the ninth year now. Thank you.
u2018-06-26-164	Thank you very much, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Dear Parliament, We now have further speeches from our representatives. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Potocsány Kőrösi, Jobbik Group.
u2018-06-26-165	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Through several speeches, the salad law has been classified from the opposition benches, and I thought that I would highlight five other areas that may not have been mentioned, but I feel that they are very important. When we talk about cafetheria and everyone said that the elimination of these problems raises serious problems, there was less talk of individual benefits. I would like to highlight one of them, and this is the small gift that has been given up to three times a year under the legislation currently in force. That's gonna cut it down for once. What does that mean? What I see is that the pro-government representatives want nothing more than to reduce community life at work, because when was this when workers were given a small gift? Name day, birthday, woman's day, maybe Christmas and Easter. This will cease because employers will not be able to accept that these small gifts will be delivered to workers in a different way. So I think and I see that this is absolutely against community life, so that they can have a good time at work. So I don't think that's an acceptable decision. I do not think that it is possible to maintain that they can continue to accept a small gift on three occasions, a small allowance with a tax burden on each particular benefit. The following was also mentioned, but I have also read very little about it in the explanatory memorandum: a passage, a tax exemption, has disappeared from the local tax law, and this is the criterion of the tax exemption linked to the increase in employment. I am constantly hearing here in this House that honourable pro-government representatives are seeking full employment and full employment. They do so by abolishing and leading to such an important tax exemption. And it is true that the explanatory statement states that the local authorities will have more revenue, but I believe that this exemption will contribute to reducing their local business tax by a tax base of HUF 1 million a year, thus also increasing employment. It is very important to maintain this tax exemption item, since full employment can only be achieved if we apply exemptions in as many places as possible. And then, after the local business tax and the local tax law, I have a little comment on the general sales tax. It is interesting that the amendments that I mashed are only one line or none of them mentioned in the explanatory statement. This is the elimination of reverse taxation for cereals and steel products, including greenhouse gases, but I think that there are quite few people dealing with greenhouse gases. The introduction of reverse taxation itself was precisely designed to reduce the abuse committed by fictitious taxable persons. Now, in these two segments, the big investments are being made in the delivery of corn, wheat and steel products - I do not know why. We're seeing a line that's going to take us out. I would like to find out why these segments have been removed, why 142 has been repealed. The provisions of Section 1 of this Article shall apply. And if it's VAT, then let's talk about another tax, and that's the vocational training contribution. I have read the explanatory statement five times, the draft legislation, and I have listened to Mr Secretary of State's speech, where he said that the contribution to vocational training, this 1.5 percent, is not to be paid for those who are entitled to an old-age pension. It says here, I don't know, that was the intention, but I doubt it wasn't, because the 2018 budget planned HUF 75 billion of this tax, the HUF 95 billion in 2019, i.e. an increase of 20 billion. Therefore, in the interpretation of the norm of the current legislation, if at least one of these is employed by a taxable person liable for a vocational training contribution, it is exempted from the vocational training contribution. I don't think that was the point. Of course, employers would be pleased that even if they employed an old-age pension, they would be completely exempt from this tax. So I would like to ask you what you are referring to, and in the explanatory statement, you confirm that if you apply for a single old-age pension, you do not have to pay this tax. [[18.00]] I would like to draw attention to one more thing. I would like to say that the reduction of administrative burdens has been a request for almost decades from the profession, from law enforcement, from accountants, from individuals, from companies, and, yes, we have heard that there are measures, but I do not see where this is. The Hungarian tax system is simply complicated, it cannot be followed, and it is constantly hiding in salad laws those amendments after which the penalties can, of course, be imposed and these can be done. I think you're talking about reducing the administrative burden here, but you're not doing anything. I respectfully ask you to listen to the opinion of the profession, listen to the opinion of the law-abiding people and finally simplify the Hungarian tax system. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and DK.]]
u2018-06-26-166	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Anita Potocsányi Kőrösi. I now give the floor to Congressman Sándor Szabó, MSZP.
u2018-06-26-167	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Be a man on his feet or a representative on his feet, who is honestly prepared for this week, because there are laws as serious as tax laws in front of the House, then I have not spoken about the budget, the laws on which the budget is based, which alone does not include a compulsory reading, but eight years of compulsory reading in primary school, because if you look at tax laws only, you have to read 183 pages. I tried to read it honestly, and I read it carefully for two hours, but then I gave up a little, because it was basically hard to read. So I would like to thank everyone in this Chamber for participating in this debate on these serious issues that concern a wide range of society, and for all the other Members to say in their defense that they are probably not interested in this. Since I had to read the tax laws on 183 pages, and I do not consider myself such an excellent genius as to know everything, I am trying to respond to only a few things, especially those that make life really difficult for people living in a more difficult line, such as the cafeteria section, VAT laws in relation to the Sjai laws, because I come from the local government world, the Tao law on local taxes, the world of municipalities and economic companies. First of all, it's the cafeteria. We've talked a lot about him or talked a lot about him here. I, too, think that the excessive simplification of cafeteria only on the SZÉP card is completely unjustified, as my fellow Member Burány has said. For here, basically accommodation, catering and leisure are the repertoire that we can otherwise use, but what we need to see and know is that people who have previously received cafeteria did not use these services in the first place, but the services that we have talked about here, such as labour mobility benefits, travel rentals, work costs, rents, so that the benefits that help people with lower incomes, who are more vulnerable, are actually lost, and rather those that they are less able to take advantage of in the first place. If the SZÉP card remains only as of 1 January 2019, then technically the SZÉP law will be amended so that nothing else remains as a preferential tax or tax-free item, only this, which, as I said, concerns the daily lives of people in vulnerable situations, and, moreover, a lot of accountants and tax advisors have previously suggested to their customers that these cafeteria elements should certainly be taken into account. So I disagree, Mr. State Secretary, when you said your exposé, this does not concern small and medium-sized enterprises in the first place. But, to a large extent, it concerns employees in small and medium-sized enterprises, because it is primarily about the fact that these cafeteria elements were given to those who did very useful work in the company, were very loyal, or were even in the ownership circle, or were reliable employees whose work was very, very much needed. Such a serious item also proves to be the abolition of debt-reimbursing employer funding, which could be a problem, I think, since it could be a kind of guarantee that the repayment was paid on a fixed basis. Here last week we also discussed the issue of eviction in Parliament, and we have seen what a problem this is today in Hungary. I do not understand that if there was such an opportunity and there was in the tax laws that the employer could give this to his employee, then why did this have to be carried out, because it was a very important thing. At the most, it could have been considered that, with a little tightening up in the way the payment was made, perhaps this cafeteria should have been referred to the bank account not available by the employee, but it was not common that the employee, when he received this cafeteria, did not use it for the repayment. By the way, with these benefits, I think they have been able to alleviate wage tension and labour shortages in a normally functioning and taxing SME. What we are now going to see is that it is likely that a multi-company will pay these amounts with a total tax and contribution burden, but the possibility of sniffing off the workforce will undermine the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises. And if you think about it, it's not a positive scenario, either, that those who are told next year that they have no longer received this kind of benefit, or that the tax burden is causing their income to drop, are likely to resign, or perhaps think about it, and then go abroad. The other item I would like to talk about is the role of local taxes, local authorities. Here it is welcome that the tax law simplifies administration on several points. It should be pointed out that, as of 1 July 2019, the obligation to report and report changes separately to the local government tax authority of the home municipality will essentially cease to exist. Of course, this reduces the tasks and work of the municipalities, but it is also likely to decrease its visibility and contacts with local based companies and companies, which, let's face it, does not really strengthen the role of local autonomy and the essence of local self-government. With regard to the business tax, it is also a welcome thing that the municipality can grant a discount from the business tax to companies that make a major investment in a locality, but here it is also necessary to look at the business tax that is the most important source of the local government, which has any business tax revenue at all. So the source that is already scarce for the municipalities is not certain that it should be distributed, but rather that the government should have thought that it might have made available to the municipalities from another large package, either through a tender or as a large buffer, and that the municipalities would not have to spend their already scarce income on this. This is also a completely new element - that the tax offices of the Land Administration and local authorities could be linked, so that, for example, the municipality could immediately obtain information about the identity of the new owner in order to increase its resources, so that the municipality itself could take the necessary steps and not increase its already scarce revenues on the basis of the notification obligation of the new owner. With regard to the VAT law in general, it can be said that, however strong government communication is, how strong Hungary is, but in many cases the reality shows something else. Today, in Hungary, more than 30 percent of the population still live below the minimum living population, nearly 1.5 million people live in extreme poverty, which, let's face it, in a country of ten million people, is an enormous number. It is therefore to be welcomed that the government, if it slowly, but in small steps, realizes that the VAT on basic foods should be reduced to 5%, because it is basically helping the most deprived people, the only problem is that this reduction is being made to 5 percent in terms of just one product, milk. And by the way, my fellow Member Bangóné has said that I have read it, and we can see that the bakers are thinking of a two-digit price increase, because obviously the cost has increased as a result of the increase in fuel prices for bakery goods. [[18.10]] So I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the MSZP had one, and it has a comprehensive proposal to reduce the VAT on basic foods to 5%, which, by the way, we have submitted to the House several times, which I have not liked to support. This is your chance to live with it. And in terms of the tao, there's one thing I want to tell you. It is also welcome that in the case of energy efficiency projects, it will be possible to draw the aid from an accounting point of view even if these energy beru-houses are considered to be renovations. It is also to be welcomed that the corporate tax concept of a kindergarten in the workplace will be introduced, but it should also be pointed out here that the social need to be recognised is that more people would be able to use the option of a social tax benefit if more socially important objectives could be promoted in addition to the current beneficiaries. Among other things, a restructuring of the corporate tax relief system should be implemented which does not restrict the promotion of sports and sports organisations to visual team sports, but also allows support for the system of public education, higher education and health institutions, in particular infrastructure development, the acquisition of tangible assets and the settlement of the income situation of mun entrepreneurs. This needs to be done because public education and the financing of health care, you know very well that it is not appropriate and that both areas are among the best goals to be supported by the Hungarian population. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the MSZP had previously proposed this. Thank you for listening.
u2018-06-26-168	Thank you very much, Sándor Szabó. I now give the floor to Mr Gergely Arató, DK, Democratic Coalition.
u2018-06-26-169	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to talk about a special rule of the bill before us, the so-called immigration special tax. First of all, it is wonderful, as this regulation went on, the kind of legislative path, since this Stop Soros appeared for the first time in law or bill, and then, in fear of its total inability and the extremely bad international echo, you have withdrawn it and then added it to the Ministry of Finance, in order to see if they could salt it and do something about it in the ordinary tax law amendment. Unfortunately, however, it has been quite clear that the Ministry of Finance, which is worth a better fate, has not been able to solve this task from a professional point of view. That's why the bill is full of nonsense. It says, among other things, that the promotion of immigration is, in general, a te-genre which is subject to a special tax, while giving a very general definition of it, especially from Wikipedia. So there's no distinction between running away from an armed conflict or persecution, or really emigrating, or your alien expression, who is a migrant who, by his own intentions, goes on the road for work, livelihood, or other reasons. In addition, and this is an even greater problem, you generally make immigration or support for immigration punishable by a special tax, but in this way the legal forms of immigration are also punished by a separate tax. I'll give you some tips on where to start collecting the sentence. First of all, with the office of citizenship and immigration, who himself provides information on establishment on its own website, and even assists in the assessment of applications for establishment, and, under the legal conditions, issues a permit to expire, thus facilitating immigration. But I could also name the Parliament itself, since Parliament has passed the law, the law on the entry and residence of third-country nationals, which is a complete IV. The ten paragraphs of Chapter III of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union cover the possibility of establishment, i.e. the possibility of immigration. It's an obvious stupidity. Moreover, the definitions by which you describe this type of activity are wrong, including the organisation of media campaigns or the continuation of media seminars; we do not know what it is, to be honest. These are teeth that are not legally defined. From this point of view, the bill is absolutely a rubber paragraph, which also punishes information and opinion requests. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the writer Krisztián Nyáry rightly notes that on this basis even the Bible can be banned or taxed, since the Scriptures itself speak, for example, of the obligations of immigrants, pardons, aliens, in Leviticus chapter 19 or Matthew chapter 25. It's obviously an absurd regulation. I don't like your political pseudo-Christianity very much, but, of course, I'm a fan of religious freedom, and I don't think that anyone should be punished for their opinion and conviction. In the same way, their rubber section is network building and operation. If someone gives me a legal reference to what that means, and how the tax authority will act, I will lift my hat before that. These are obviously rules which are intended solely to maintain uncertainty. Of course, they are right that there is a great need for them to take action against the power of the law against those who are really organising illegal migration and illegal immigration. This activity is called smuggling people, it is still being punished by the Criminal Code, but it should be implemented, unlike in 2015 when you organized the transit of asylum seekers to Hungary across the country. And of course, there would be someone who wouldn't pay taxes, but to co-ordinate his assets. From those who have helped to settle in Hungary in a number of ways in an illegal way, for example by issuing settlement bonds or by misuse of preferential localisation. Well, those shouldn't just be confiscated, they should be locked up. Overall, therefore, this proposal is not a question of leaving the country, it is not about immigration. [[The president will announce the end of the time by jogging the chimes.]] They're trying to silence civil society. It's not an immigration tax. Shut the fuck up. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-26-170	Thank you, Congressman Gergely Arató. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik.
u2018-06-26-171	Thank you for the floor, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I have to tell you this afternoon, this afternoon, because I'm very happy to have such high-quality speeches in professional mail. I am particularly pleased that we have received a State Secretary this afternoon who is willing to turn when an opposition Member asks, and we are just hoping that they will not spoil it, that they will tell us at the next meeting that there is no need to turn. Turn over there, because believe me, you can draw incredible respect from the opposition bench lines to the person of a state leader who really shows cooperation and constructivity. I can't stop talking about tax laws because of some aspects. This package was also presented with the tone that there will be a tax reduction, as it is the government of tax reductions, and they want to facilitate the situation of our citizens and businesses in many areas. Technically, since VAT was raised to 27 percent, the opposition's benches have always heard that please, this VAT must be reduced. Each year, the current government official promised to include this in the plans, and then the reduction of this ma-gas VAT begins. And really, I'm standing here as a representative now, and I can ask you from this bench: really, if this tax package is really going to reduce tax revenue, then it would not be possible to start reducing VAT by at least one share each year in order not to be the lowest taxpayer in Hungary. This is a huge ambivalent situation, isn't it, how I think the lowest kere-seteks are the biggest taxpayers. Because taxes and contributions are paid after their income, and then the remaining income, just the minimum income, will be paid to their spending net of 27, gross of 23 figures. But let's say not 23, just 21, because they also buy 5% VAT products, so let's be so benevolent, but with this VAT value, if you like it, if you don't keep the broadest social layers as the largest level of income-related taxpayers. That is all, however, not social policy, nor social policy, and tax policy for the common good. [[18.20]] So I think quite a lot of people would be happy not to reduce, let's say, a contribution of half a percent if there were to be at least 1-2 percent reduction in VAT. I think a lot of people in this country would be able to handle it if they were told that we wouldn't cut that kind of contribution right now because we started reducing the VAT. So after at least eight years, it would have been really great to get started. I think that this is now such a broad social need that a party alliance with such a huge mandate should really accept. The other important question is, I can't leave without saying a word about the termination of the bank tax. Everyone knows that my business isn't exactly my friends, credit institutions. Now, regardless of the social-destructive activity that they have done since 2004, it is simply the figures that dictate that it is not possible to deduct from this sphere any more taxes until they take a proportion of public burdens that corresponds to their actual economic turnover. If anyone looks at the income structure and tax burden of an average Hungarian company and looks at the same numbers of any credit institution, they see that nearly half of the banks are burdened by the Hungarian public burden. So, like, by the way, mother companies use different billings, accounting tricks, such re-evaluations, so they use every storehouse of accounting to minimize tax liability. Then, in one year, we can talk about it and put it in a tax law that has made such a huge profit in the tax year that it is simply our sense of responsibility for society and respect and respect for society that if a sector can produce such a result, I will not reward it in the following year by eliminating this otherwise extremely minimal special tax. So, with all due respect, since we have such a kind secretary of state, let me send a message to the decision-makers on his way to do a little more refining, to think about it, because we know that the banking community has made this demand, but unfortunately, we also know that a lot of the oligarchs around the government have managed to acquire ownership of the banking sector, and we do not even want to think that their request and their influence have justified this move. Although we know that when it was introduced, they promised the banking sector that it would end, because the time would come, it is true, too, but I am not convinced that this should be abolished in a year with such a huge profit. Or, if, at least, you want to give me a discount, you should start reducing this rate, not completely, but systematically. I would like to say a word, because I think it is possible again here, as my fellow Member has just called the Government representative's attention to the error of this drafting error on the subject of vocational training. Now, I'm not talking about a complete drafting error, but I don't think it's a lucky regulatory idea, which is the accounting law 20. Article 212 of the Act complements the provisions of Article 212 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, as well as Article 212 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Paragraph 5. The meaning of this section and the reasons for this include the need to state in this new paragraph 5b that the currency of the reporting and the bookkeeping must be the currency of the instrument of incorporation. In the explanatory statement, it is now clarified by this proposal that the contractor's accounting and bookkeeping currency should be the same as the currency recorded in the instrument of incorporation. If there is a forint, then of course it is forint, and it can only be foreign currency if this is determined. I believe that this may be such a clarification of the law, but let us now move away from pragmatism and move on to the field of practice. Now it says that the accounts must be drawn up in the currency of the currency indicated in the instrument of incorporation. According to the law, in the instrument of incorporation, according to the rules of company law, the currency is mandatory only for the capital. So the capital is x forints, y dollars and so on and so forth. Thus, it is the only legally binding element which is the currency at all, for which the currency exists. Now this supplement says that if there is currency in something, the report must be written in it. We now have our large companies in the world's economic circulation quite strongly, and we know that I have been at a number of conferences where they say that they account for everything, income and expenditure in euro, even if an invoice is created in HUF, because companies are so export-oriented, the revenue is basically euro to the extent that it is easier for them to do their accounting in this way. There is only one legal link to the accounting management of a company's statutes that one of them provides the basis that the other can be done. There is no stronger link between these two documents and these two factors. But every company has accounting policies that need to be done, and without that, you can't even start bookkeeping. I do not understand, and I would now like to make a proposal to the representative of the government that, if there is an accounting policy to be written anyway, we are talking about a public document anyway, why does the legislator not rather say that the currency of the accounts should be determined in accounting policy. Why am I saying this? I am saying this because, since the constituent instrument, the constituent instrument, is not a compulsory element of the currency of capital at all to talk about any other issue other than the currency of capital, which would be linked to the currency, if this is mandatory, each economic company must again pay a lawyer to introduce it into the articles of association or the instruments of incorporation, we will generate another cost for this very wide sector. How much simpler it would be if the Accounting Act said that accounting policy would have to determine which currency it would report in a given tax year, and it could even change this every year. One thing you can't do is change it every month. So now this is indeed a technical thing, but if you think about how much costs we will generate for companies again, and for that reason, Hungarian companies are rather sarcastic companies compared to the general taxation of the world, let us already make this gesture for them. I ask the government to consider this question. I am very happy for him, and I repeat once again that I have been a part of such a high level of debate, and I am truly very sorry that there are so few Members here, because I think that this afternoon was a very useful afternoon for all Members of Parliament with extremely rich information. I really suggest that there should be greater interest in the negotiation of legislation of this kind at other times, because when professionalism is able to come first in this Chamber and not political combat, it is really a relief that we are here, and it is not interesting that we are opposition or pro-government, but the interesting thing is that we are here for the citizens of our country and we want to make it as good as possible. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-06-26-172	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea. I'll give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi for two minutes, LMP.
u2018-06-26-173	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House,
u2018-06-26-174	If you'd be so kind as to stand up, if I may. Thank you.
u2018-06-26-175	Yeah, I'm sorry. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I'm thinking about 27 percent VAT, and the fact that you guys have declared a freedom fight for the sake of reduced-tax pálinka cooking. In this tax package, this freedom fight has failed. [[18.30]] But let me ask you a question, Mr. Secretary. An imaginary community worker, like Nosvaj, who has two children, what does he need? Is it cheaper to cook low-tax pálinka or paprika and tomatoes? But I can also ask how much healthier we view pork, such as kale. What I'm trying to say is that if we put a little energy into it, I think it's very quick to find out how important it is to reduce VAT on basic foods and how effective it can be in order for the goal you communicate to be able to ensure that our fellow countrymen are healthy, eating, and being more accessible. Because let's see, here's the public health product tax, which they didn't really want to involve pálinka cooking in, but we know that although the tax is subject to all the energy drinks, such as Red Bull, let's face it, that every year or in recent years the advertising of this company has received much more support than the total amount of public health product tax. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I think that the situation is very simple, make it clear: do you want healthy food available to everyone or not? Thank you.
u2018-06-26-176	Thank you very much. This is Congressman János Volner, Jobbik.
u2018-06-26-177	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, I would like to ask the Fidesz Members here that, given that you still have two hours of speaking time, and we still have a lot to say, but the debate is on time, I ask these three Fidesz Members who are present, that they might not want to provide a framework for speaking for the Jobbik faction, we would like to fill in the two hours that you have at your disposal. I'm asking how generous they are. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Defiance, applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2018-06-26-178	Thank you, Congressman. Not like this, we should have asked this question in the opposite direction, but we should have discussed it in front of it. [[János Volner: We did not know, Mr President.]] I don't see any response to that. I would like to ask him if he still needs to speak. I give the floor to happy Stephen, Fidesz.
u2018-06-26-179	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I've had the eighth opportunity to sit through the tax laws debate, and I have to say eight times that life doesn't change. We are making our tax reduction policy, and the opposition is defending its proposals to raise taxes. Antal Csárdi, the LMP and the others are doing their job very well, because what was promised in the election campaign, the multi-key tax, he explained here, would tax wages by 24 percent above the average wage. That's a very nice thing, so the raise we gave the teachers and the doctors, you'd take most of that right away. We can also conclude that the tax on illegal immigration is being infringed by all of them. No wonder they support these organisations, these NGOs. [[Gergely Harvestó: We didn't even talk to him! Noise, intervention in the ranks of opposition parties.]] To tell you the truth, I do not agree with the government's proposal, I think that the rate proposed by the government is 25 percent short, and I will submit a 70 percent proposal on this. [[Dr. István Apáti: Talk to the Romanians about this! Noise, interruptions. The president's ringing the bell.]] Because I think that whoever organizes illegal immigration is bad for our country, it's bad for our nation. Of course, of course I understand that my better fellow Member is making noise, because they support the work of the Soros NGOs. I understand, continue to do this; we do not support it fortunately, and we will not support it again. I think that the tax laws, which have now been submitted, are moving forward with the policy that we have been pursuing. [[Gergely Harvesto: That's what we're afraid of!]] We reduce taxes, support families, and as with our anti-immigration law, we are against those who are attacking the country. This is an important thing, and I ask my fellow opposition Members to continue to stand by their ideas. Very good ideas, as long as they stick to them, I am sure that we will remain in the government, because as long as you want to increase the tax on ordinary people's income and while you are against family tax incentives, citizens will surely support us. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-26-180	Thank you very much, Congressman István Happy. I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi for two minutes, LMP. [[Dr. István Apáti: Amazing!]]
u2018-06-26-181	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Mr President, My dear fellow Member, I think sleeping through the debate was a mistake. [[Defiance.]] 'Cause if you hadn't slept through the debate, you'd know exactly that there was practically a conflicting position that couldn't possibly be called a tax increase, from 27 to 5 percent of basic food VAT. I'm very sorry that you slept through it, so I think you wouldn't have made such a serious mistake. [[Dr. István Apáti: Bullshit!]] And I would like to add very quietly that you are a member of the Economic Committee, and I am sure you are aware that the average taxpayer in the LMP proposal would be worth 36 thousand forints a month, compared to what you set out in Sajja with the single-key tax. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: It would be worse, it would pay 40 percent tax, it would be worse!]] To add, my honourable fellow Member... [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]]
u2018-06-26-182	Thank you very much, your time is up. [[Antal Csárdi: Thank you very much.]] I give the floor to Congressman István Apáti for two minutes, Jobbik.
u2018-06-26-183	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out to Congressman István Happy that the medicine should always be taken on time, and the doctor says this for a reason. Believe me, my fellow Member, there is a reason for this. Let me reject your infinite idea of absolute malice and immeasurable stupidity that we would support any kind of illegal immigration or the Soros organisations. A week ago, we supported the government's proposals in this respect, we voted in favour of all anti-terrorist measures, and we supported the protection and protection of the Hungarian border, alongside the police. So please don't lecture us on border protection and patriotism and patriotism. The fundamental facts, like last week's facts, are contrary to what you're saying. If you're just trying to provoke me or make a fuss, then of course I understand. In the absence of professional expertise, you have to mix up a little trouble about what happened here. How can VAT reduction, excise duty reduction and speeches be reflected in your knowledge as an increase? This is really amazing. I understand that you want to kick anyone who isn't fidesz or KDNP, but you shouldn't go down to such depths, and you shouldn't make statements that are actually that opposite, because it's just outrageous and outrageous. Lying to our eyes the opposite of reality is very annoying, so be glad I've been so modest. Thank you. [[Delight, applause in the ranks of Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-26-184	Thank you, Congressman Abbot. I'll give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári for two minutes. [[Gergely Harvestó: I've missed it!]]
u2018-06-26-185	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, My fellow Member, István Happy, does not need to be protected by anyone else, because he is a brave Member, he has faced even tougher opponents than you, but the style in which you speak is not worthy of the Hungarian Parliament. [[Dr. István Apáti: The way he talks is not worthy!]] You are personal because you have no arguments, and that is why you are threatening me, Congressman, you are mocking me. [[Dr. István Apáti: When did I threaten you?]] Even the sarcasm might go away in Parliament, but when they had no arguments, I ended up with this debate, I did not hear any meaningful speeches, but only personal talk. [[Dr. István Apáti: From him!]] That's the best the opposition can do, so I think it's pretty deplorable for the opposition's standards. I think it is not István Happy who should take this on, but the Hungarian Parliament should think about the quality of this. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-26-186	Thank you, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik.
u2018-06-26-187	Secretary of State, you've arrived at the last minute. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: I told you so.]] And you didn't hear me when I was talking about, about ten minutes ago, what a beautiful afternoon it was. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: I heard that.]] and how high professional reports were. Happy Congressman István has ruined this afternoon by lying to opposition representatives' eyes. [[18.40]] What he said here, what we talked about or what we were talking about or what we were reading, it's just not true. Indeed, some Members have different temperaments and may have different expressions of displeasure. Maybe in two years I'll answer in the style of István Apáti [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Which faction?]] I'm still in a time of patience. But if you, Mr Rétvári State Secretary, usually try to represent the government fairly, then don't defend your fellow Member on a matter in which you obviously lied to opposition representatives because everyone here is interested in tax reductions, but only the structures that are included in this package of laws, because, whether you like it or not, this tax reduction programme again reduces taxes for the benefit of the richest, most capable and most profitable people and organisations in Hungary, and not for the benefit of the families in need. I didn't want to say this in the debate, because I thought I wouldn't season it with such a malicious statement, but Happy István seems to be the father of your group, who created the bad mood, has made another very nice, decent afternoon taste in the mouth. For several hours there were lectures, argument systems that could be envied by the Senate and the faculty of a university. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-26-188	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea. I give the floor to Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély MSZP.
u2018-06-26-189	Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Dr. István Apáti: Do we have a time frame? Dr. Bence Rétvári: The voters gave everyone the time frame. That's all they gave me...]] I would like to help Congressman István Happy, and then I will make a proposal... [[Dr. István Apáti intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2018-06-26-190	Congressman Abbot, don't yell.
u2018-06-26-191	I will make a proposal to make an amendment, and I would personally submit it to you, Congressman, if I may, and this proposal would be about the immigration tax that you have referred to, which companies and what associations and organisations should be hit with it, and instead of 25 percent, I am in favour of imposing a 70% tax on offshore companies that sell settlement bonds to Rogán Antal. I will have this amendment prepared tomorrow, let us mark it together, Mr Congressman, because I think we can talk here about damages of tens of billions of forints, and about the fact that public criminals have been admitted to Hungary with the help of settlement bonds, which you have created, supported by the government. They have done great harm to Hungary, the European Union, against the exact fight to prevent the resettlement of individuals to Hungary, the European Union, from whom we want to protect our country and the European Union. I'm asking you to sign this amendment together and submit it. 70 percent tax on these offshore companies! Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-06-26-192	Thank you, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. I give the floor to Congressman István Happy for two minutes, Fidesz.
u2018-06-26-193	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I understand that opposition representatives do not remember what they said, but Antal Csárdi said that he would cast a 24-percent key, he would cast a second key, and the other opposition parties also support the introduction of a multi-key tax on wages. So it's a tax increase, no matter how you say it. You're lying, and I'm sorry if you're getting into this. I can tell Ildikó Bangóné Borbély that I will never submit any amendments to members of the successor party of MSZMP. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Tell me about it?]] My father was in '56, and I'm not gonna make any modifications with you, and I'm gonna send my amendment to my own faction, and my faction is gonna decide to put him in front of the House. I'm comfortable with that. I think that the style that you and the besties have done here at the end of the debate and debate is the top of everything. But it doesn't matter, the point is that what you guys promised in the campaign to introduce a multi-key tax on incomes is also said here. [[Dr. István Apáti: Blessed are the poor in spirit, for they have the kingdom of heaven.]] So, an average income educator who now earns a little more than average Hungarian income, more than the average wage, you would tax him, I would like to tax him by more than 15 percent; Antal Csárdi suggested 24 percent. This would, of course, reduce the wage increase that we gave him, i.e. lower his income. It's a shame to deny that, you said in the debate, feel free to listen - that you would put the second key at 24 percent. If you look at the average income, that's exactly what the teacher falls for, because my wife is a teacher, and I know how much she makes. So it turns out, in the end, you guys were the ones who said it wasn't real. And for Jobbik not to support immigration, I am sorry, Mr Apáti: you supported the amendment of the basic law when you knew quite clearly that we would accept it anyway. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Not when they needed their vote, because they were against it because they were supporting NGOs and illegal immigrants. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. István Apáti: The only foreign word you can say!]]
u2018-06-26-194	Thank you, Congressman István Happy. [[For signal:]] I can't speak to a fidesz congressman for two minutes after a fidesz congressman. I'm gonna ask someone to come forward for a speech. [[Dr. István Apáti: There is no time!]] [[For signal:]] I can't speak to a fidesz congressman for two minutes after a fidesz congressman. I'm gonna ask someone to come forward for a speech. (Dr. István Apáti: No time!) I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur if he would like to respond to what was said in the debate. (To sign:) Secretary of State Norbert Izer indicates that he is. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-06-26-195	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, I will try to return to the professional framework and answer the points where we felt that we had to make a statement on account of our involvement. One of the most important sayings in the speech by Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát was that the high level of the tax wedge was recognised by the government. The high level of the tax wedge is constantly being reduced, by the way, in recent times, so I think that this is difficult to get rid of. Here, the six-year wage agreement and the reduction of the socho key clearly marked the way in which we approach the OECD average for a few years, and we can also exceed the V4 average, so the tax wedge will be lower in Hungary than the V4 average. We have also received a number of proposals on the re-alignment of the tax system, and the VAT reductions have been proposed by the Members and ladies. Here it is very important to point out that, in a practically consistent manner, since 2010, there has been a continuous tax system transformation for a few years. This tax regime conversion has so to say ended, so we have transformed the tax system from taxes on income to consumer-traffic taxes. So there was a shift of burden, a restructuring that resulted in the continuous reduction of labour, living taxes, and the other leg of this, so to speak, is that the fiscal balance should not be disturbed, that consumption-traffic taxes will be more present in the budget. Thus, a shift in the burden of a general VAT reduction is not in line with the government's tax policy. It is clearly the intention, and we want to continue to follow this direction, that we want to reduce income taxes and labour taxes. Dániel Z. Kárpát also said in his speech that the VAT reduction should be extended to basic foodstuffs and that this was reflected in practically several Members' speeches. Here it is very important to point out that, on one hand, the tax system, such as Sia and Tao, is being attacked, that it is one-key, that everyone must pay in the same way, and that the argument is that they pay more at this time, and that they are more hit by the poor. Interestingly, this argument does not come up with the VAT rate, although it is also true that if the VAT rate were to reduce the key to all the food, the wealthier ones, let's say, would save three to four times more VAT revenue than the lowest income 10 percent. So the wealthier families consume much more, they also consume much higher-price products from pastries, children's diapers and all kinds of other products. So here, too, the dissonance is that if we generate the VAT rate for everyone, the wealthier families and wealthier individuals will also receive greater tax relief. Interestingly, this rhetoric doesn't come back. With regard to the credit institution special tax, although Mr President has now left the Chamber, it has been said that the discharge of the credit institution special tax was a technical discharge. Congresswoman also pointed out that she did not consider this tax to be justified. I would like to confirm here that, because of the IFRS transition, the tax base calculation of banks and credit institutions has changed, so that now all credit institutions are managing their books on an IFRS basis, so to speak, the right to a credit institution's special tax has ceased. [[18.50]] There will be no loss of budget revenue by introducing this tax. I think this is more of an administrative burden reduction. I am trying to respond to the suggestion made by Mrs Bangón. We've analyzed the conversion of the cafeteria system in quite detail. I'll try to get into this in a little bit more detail, just a little bit later, but now I'd like to respond to some specific suggestions. It occurred to me how many people reimbursed the nursery awards and how many kindergarten discounts there were this year. I asked my colleagues. Unfortunately, those data are not available here. The data of the 2017 declaration has not yet been processed, but I will provide you with this information as soon as I have it. On the subject of kindergarten support, however, I would like to stress that kindergarten support was not included in the legislation this year. All that has happened this year is that the invoice issued in the name of the employer has been accounted for, and now the invoice issued in the name of the individual is sufficient, so there is no new discount introduced. It was also said in the speech that the VAT and excise duty on petrol and fuel should be reduced. Here it is very important that the VAT and excise duties on petrol are quite harmonised at EU level. With regard to excise duty, Hungary applies the lowest rate for all neighbouring countries, perhaps only Bulgaria applies lower excise duty rates than Hungary. It is therefore clear in the excise duty that we are placing a low tax burden on this product scope. And it is also very important that, apart from VAT and excise duties, the most important aspect for final consumer prices is obviously demand-supply and market margins, as well as changes in the world economy and obviously oil prices. Thus, the final consumer price can not be influenced through taxes; the global economic events have a much greater impact than taxes. In excise duty, I also stress that we are at the lowest level of this product range across the region. Mr Varju reiterated in his speech that tax centralization in Hungary was very high, he long-standing how tax revenue went up and the rate of tax centralisation increased. I think this is also in line with what I said in my first speech, because the rate of tax centralisation is calculated as the total tax revenue collected in relation to GDP. And if all the revenue collected increases, whether from the tax increase or from whitening, this rate will increase. This increase was not due to a tax increase in Hungary, but, despite tax reductions, the government was able to collect more and more taxes, so clearly this excess tax comes from whitening. Obviously, the objective remains to reduce the rate of tax centralisation, as this is the tax policy direction that has actually been formulated for years. So we would like to reduce this rate, but it is really welcome that this rate cannot go down because whitening generates more and more revenue despite the fact that the rates are otherwise falling. Congressman Varju also proposes that the nature of the tax authority service provider should be strengthened and that electronic administration should be carried out with the tax authority. This is where the congressman bangs open doors. We fully agree that the nature of the tax authority service provider should be strengthened. I think that we can offer exemplary solutions to this. Perhaps the best example is the e-say, where the tax authority makes the returns instead of the individual. The request or suggestion made by the Member to avoid making a tax return for private individuals was practically realized last year, as hundreds of thousands of individuals who, seeing that the tax authorities had prepared their declarations, did not take the trouble to look at their declarations, but trusted in the correct calculation of the tax authority. And the way he got his tax return on May 21 or 22nd, I don't know what day it was that he didn't check his tax returns. The other very large circle is the one who looked at his tax return and accepted it without change, which is also a circle of hundreds of thousands. And they enjoyed the IT development that allowed the taxpayer to accept his declaration on a tablet or mobile phone, and a XXI. With centuries of technology, he was able to get his tax returns out in a matter of minutes. I think it was an exemplary service from the IRS. The next exemplary service, on the basis of which I also felt that we were practically on the same page with the Member, is what other services the tax authority can provide and how it could improve its communication to smaller and medium-sized enterprises. Perhaps the timing could not be better, today the tax authority launched a new service, the online biller, which means that NAV created a billing program to facilitate the online account connection that will be launched on 1 July, which will be made available free of charge to businesses, and if this free billing program is used, downloaded, installed and issued by businesses, this will automatically fulfil this obligation to be fulfilled from 1 July. I think it is more proactive and modern than it is difficult to imagine when the tax authority makes available the software that allows small businesses to overcome this tax liability. So it was interesting to hear that the congressman was waiting for the same thing. It has also been said in Mr Varju's speech that there is no guarantee that companies will raise wages, and if the cafeteria is eliminated or the employer decides that he will not pass this on to the employee, then net wages will be reduced. Here, let me draw attention to a result from last year, when a significant minimum wage increase occurred in the economy due to the six-year wage agreement, we looked at the effects of this in each payment region. The view was, the preliminary assumption was that wages will increase significantly around the minimum wage, i.e. up to HUF 100 to HUF 200 000, since the minimum wage should be increased on a compulsory basis, the subsequent wages will have a slight disruptive effect, and then this curve will flatten nicely, and there will be no change at HUF 300 to 400 thousand. In the six-year wage agreement, where there was a large increase in the minimum wage, we have seen that the situation in the labour market has changed significantly. We have faced a situation in the labour market where there is competition for workers, so the minimum wage increase has practically crawled up to the salary category of 600-700 thousand forints, so even the wage category of 600-700 thousand forints could see a wage increase of around 10 percent in the figures. So the reason why a pay increase of over 10 per cent was achieved at national level is because not only in the minimum wage payment category, but also in the much higher pay categories. So the fear that employers will swallow the reduction of contributions and not pass it on to employees has not been achieved. It can clearly be said that this tax advantage has been transferred to consumers, workers. We believe that since the labour market situation is virtually unchanged, or rather I can say that it may face even greater challenges than last year, the transformation of the cafeteria system will not lead to a reduction in its net position for individuals. Employers are simply forced to pay workers competitively, and if, in addition, they want to recognise their work with a positive incentive, it is still possible to do so with a SZÉP card. So recreation, recharge, support for healthy lifestyles continue to be given. On the other hand, we believe that the first thing we need to do is to compete with a salary for the good of workers. And it is also a very important link that while the tax burden paid by employers and the increase in administration have affected the cafeteria, there is also a contribution-based income, so benefits are also increasing. Therefore, it is more important that the individual receives this income as a wage, because it derives from retirement benefits, social security benefits and, where appropriate, a higher pension. So this is an important connection, so we think that the transformation of the cafeteria system was timely because it was very apparent that virtually part of the wages migrated to the cafeteria. So it was not an extra wage benefit in this form, but a part of the wage was channeled into a device with a lower public burden, and this became the cafeteria. If I'm gonna cut into the cafeteria, I'd like to explain that a little bit better. We've looked at the popularity of the cafeteria elements, and we see how many companies use this system, how many individuals get it. It can be seen that 24,000 companies have provided cafeteria benefits, so they are a fraction of the farming community. And it is also clear that higher-wage workers have received this income, so it is a very poorly targeted social support. [[19.00]] It is given to workers who, by the way, belong to the higher pay categories and are given by employers who, by the way, are medium-sized and larger companies who have managed to cope with administration. We have seen that small and medium-sized enterprises almost did not provide this benefit, or, if they did, they chose the cash payment with the smallest administration. The other very important connection to the popularity of the cafeteria systems was that it was introduced last year, so it was possible to choose cash for the first time in 17 years, while all other forms of benefit were constantly changing and the circle was growing, and cash benefits became by far the most popular form of benefit in the first year. So you've gone after all the other vouchers, SZÉP cards, Elisabeth vouchers, housing allowances and everything else. The long-term forms of self-care, i.e. pension and health fund contributions. It is well seen that individuals have chosen an easy-to-spend, flexible, flexible system, cash, and not vouchers that are paper-based, outgoing, limited, which may be used as an opportunity for abuse. I think it's obvious that this system had to be touched. By the way, we also discussed this week with the members of the VKF, employers' and employee's advocacy bodies. It is clear that there is virtually a consensus that the system should be simplified. There is indeed a debate about how much to simplify or how many elements to keep, three or five. But when we talked about keeping three and listing what three are, there were 15 suggestions for these three. So it is well seen that this system has been so cizellated and so widely supported by these services that the guiding effect of consumption was virtually minimal, there were so many choices that it was no longer possible to redirect consumption into the directions that were important for the government, whether in terms of health or long-term savings. Another interesting link to long-term savings. We see that last year's and the year before last year, and for example, the employer's contribution to pension payments has been reduced, and pension savings are still possible from the private side. So there is still a sija discount for these payments, and it has increased steadily. We have seen that the self-care tendencies of workers are constantly increasing, and those who want to devote some of their savings to this can do so with a 20% tax discount, which, I think, is very generous support. With regard to the cafeteria system, I think this is the most important argument system I wanted to summarize. Another very important element is that, very often, rhetoric is that the government does not support these goals, such as housing, mobility and self-care. We firmly state that the government supports all these objectives, considers them all important, but it is very important to see that it is not certain that these objectives should be supported in this system. If we give a higher discount to the higher-income layer in an expensive and poorly targeted way, then we think that we may need to promote housing, self-care and a healthier lifestyle with a more targeted system. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] Congressman Csárdi has indicated that they think that a single-key sja should make great changes so that we do not think about it. I've written two figures. The SAY system has also been constantly changing over the past period, in a fine-tuning manner. The two years, which are relatively easy to compare, are where the tax rate was 15 and 16 percent. Thus, we reduced the tax rate by 1 percentage point, the general framework of the company did not change, and despite the key reduction of 1 percentage point, HUF 1717 billion was generated instead of HUF 1688 billion. What I am trying to say is that we are still committed to a single-key tax system. We believe that both in the Tao and in the Saya have firmly fulfilled the expectations that the single-key system cleans, simplifies and whitens. This is also reflected in the revenue figures that despite the decline in the key, we were able to collect more revenue. I mean, mathematically, I'm not sure that's the way it's supposed to be. The background was clearly that workers were no longer encouraged to block incomes in the vicinity of the minimum wage or in the area of the band boundary. Thus, workers were not interested in possibly concealing their income and showing revenue below the threshold and not above. We therefore believe that the single-key tax system remains simple, transparent, fair and proportionate. This is confirmed by the revenue figures, by the way. He also said in his speech that individual contributions should be reduced. When we talk about tax wedge reduction, and this is on the government's agenda, we have examined whether it is recommended that these reductions be made on the employer's or employee's side. I think it is true here that we have to give a discount on the employer's side in order to reduce wage pressure due to the increase in the minimum wage and increase the competitiveness of companies. It was necessary to help employers to manage higher wages more easily. This was also supported by the reduction of the tao key. If we reduce individual contributions, I would also point out that individual contributions form the basis for the benefit. That is why we think that if we are thinking on the employee side, we are thinking about what might be the subject of the reduction, and we are proposing a reduction on the employer's side because we see that this competitive improvement measure is very nicely and very quickly flowing into wages. I also brought some numbers when we talk about tax rates on minimum wage levels. I've written myself a much more talkative number, the rise in real wages between 2010 and 17 years. I think that this is a rather talkative number, that the purchasing value of real wages has increased by 36 percent; that is 45 percent for two children, 64 percent for three children, so during these seven years families can spend 64 percent more income. And here you can agree on the minimum wage on the tax system, but what we see is that families have significantly more income today than they did in 2010. The minimum wage has only increased by 87 percent between 2010 and 17 percent. Member Csárdi also indicated that 9 percent of the tao key represents a significant tax relief for larger businesses. I would also like to emphasise here that small businesses have taken advantage of this opportunity in the same way. In the first step, smaller companies were granted a tax rate of 10 per cent, while the large companies had an even higher tax rate. In the next step, both the little ones and the big ones are down to 9 percent of the tax burden. What we do not dispute is that the logic of the Tao is still complicated, it has a lot of international relations to deal with, transactions that occur in larger companies. This is a complicated, mature tax system, but it is precisely because of this that we think that a very realistic choice for small businesses is kata and kiva. Kata is the very popular choice of self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed The popularity of this, I think, may not need to be explained, is almost 300,000 farmers under the scope of this tax. As I said, 28,000 people are under the kiva, and we believe that medium-sized enterprises with growth potential are the best choice. An innovative tax that stimulates investment and development, such as tao. So we think that for small and medium-sized enterprises these are two small taxes, which are truly competitive, and tao is indeed a tax on larger and more complex companies. It does not belong here organically, but I would like to emphasise here the service provided by the tax authority, which, as a matter of fact, is also one of the most important plans of the government for the future. Last year, the tax authority sent a letter to small and medium-sized enterprises that could be eligible for the selection of kiva. So the tax authorities saw these data, and when they saw that the taxpayer was entitled, they made a calculation. [[19.10]] According to the calculation, we sent out a letter to 80,000 companies showing the benefits of the exhaust system. There were places where we could do some calculations, and we showed that if you switch to the company's castle, then I'll just give you an example of 24 thousand or 82 thousand forints less than if you stayed under the Tao. I think we have been able to achieve by using this proactive notice letter that the number of users has practically increased since 1 January. So here, too, the tax authority has provided a forward-looking service, which, I think, is exemplary and we would like to continue to introduce such services in the future. Mr Sándor Burány is no longer here, but I would like to say that the choice of the Eva will not be possible after 20 December, but this tax will not be released. Therefore, whoever chooses this tax type and wishes to continue to fulfil its tax obligations in this tax category can continue to do so. Therefore, this tax will not cease, but will not expect new entrants from December. Nevertheless, we believe that kata and kiva will result in a much more favourable tax liability for most taxpayers, so we recommend these taxes for consideration, but the Eva will also be used. I am trying to respond to Mrs Potocska's questions. He had a comment about a local tax discount. He asked why the one million HUF discount would be exported. I would also like to emphasise that the benefit is itself, so that the government wants to encourage employment remains firmly so. We see that an employee can get a discount of HUF 20,000 if it is forinted. So this is exactly the discount that we saw had no deflecting effect, so that is not why the employer will hire the employee. Plus, he was a system stranger. For example, when we eliminate discounts, we always have the goal of simplifying the tax system. So the only reason we're not gonna cancel a discount is because we would disagree with the purpose that you're otherwise in favour of. Here, too, we definitely want to continue to encourage employment. The best example of this is the transformation of the action plan for the protection of jobs. Here, however, we find that this discount is a system stranger and does not reach its goal. I think there's been a misunderstanding about the reverse taxation. Indeed, there is such a passage in the law that it will cease to be possible, but we may have been a little overzealous, because it will cease to exist from 2022. So it had to be written in the legislation, so to speak, the repeal, but there is actually an extension. Therefore, the application of reverse taxation to the product products mentioned by you would have now expired, but the Commission has extended its scope until, by the way, we have developed an effective tool at EU level to reduce the black economy. Until this happens, the reverse taxation of cereals and the product groups mentioned by you will be maintained until 1 July 22. However, this reverse taxation has indeed been included, but it will apply from July 2022. As regards the contribution to vocational training, which you mentioned, there is a technical error in the legislation, which we will improve, and thank you for the suggestion. I have practically answered Mrs Varga-Damm's proposal to reduce VAT, as I look at it, in the past, I think. With regard to the credit institution special tax, I mentioned that we are talking about a technical discharge due to an IFRS transfer. Therefore, the loss of tax revenue will not be worth the budget. And his proposal for an accounting law was quickly consulted with colleagues. We agree that there should be flexibility in the currency in which the taxpayer manages his books, but we believe that it would be a great risk from an evaluation point of view if it were not the currency of the subscribed capital. That's why we connected these two. Indeed, these can be changed flexibly. Books have been very flexible in the euro. Here, however, we assume that it is not typical for someone to change the currency of the settlement year after year. So if your income is typically in euros for a business, I think it doesn't change from one year to the next. I think that this linking with the articles of association is important because of the evaluation criteria. With regard to the example of Mr Antal Csárdi in Noszvaj, I would just like to point out that home brewing does not fall within the scope of the neta, so fortunately this tax burden should not be counted there. Since it is not sold, it is likely that the distillate is produced for domestic consumption and therefore this product is not covered by the neta. With regard to targeted VAT reductions, I think I have roughly summarised the government's position. So much for targeted VAT reductions, for example, for children's clothing to fall under a favourable tax rate, it is banned at EU level. [[Bangóné Borbély turning towards Ildikó:]] Nor can I say this to the Member in the case of fuel, because of EU rules, it is a favourable tax rate, so it must be charged with the highest tax rate. Before the targeted VAT reductions were launched, the government has always prepared an impact assessment of the impact of the VAT reduction. When most food VAT reductions were made, we also looked at an ex post impact assessment of how this VAT reduction was confirmed in prices. We have seen that in the service sector it was very difficult to reduce VAT, and they could not go through these VAT reductions in consumer prices. So it is a very expensive and badly targeted way to solve social problems. We believe that targeted measures are far more effective. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-06-26-196	Welcome, fellow Members. Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your presentation. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. This brings us to the end of the discussion of today's agendas. We now have post-scheduled speeches. Mr Imre László applied for a post-meeting speech with the title "The Internationally Recognized Hungarian Healthcare." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-06-26-197	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, A difficult-to-understand interview prompts me to comment, which, with the assistance of the Minister of Health Anikó Nagy, can be considered a court supplier of the government. The Secretary of State said, I quote: "Hungarian health care is internationally well-known. Well, the French-based health centre ranked Hungarian health care 30th in 2014 in the 25th, 2015 in the 27th, 2016 and 17th in 35 European countries. As we know, Albania and Macedonia also beat us last year. Based on a study by the State Health Care Center, it is known that about 32 thousand people die every year in Hungary in curable and preventable diseases, and this is the third worst ranking in the international ranking. We are also at the top of the world in terms of the proportion of cancers and suicides, and life expectancy at birth is five years less than the EU average. Well, I don't think these would be the characteristics of an internationally accepted high-quality healthcare system. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In the past period, the Hungarian health care system has developed a great deal and the following statement has been made in a very good quality. In any case, our above-mentioned slippage in the international ranking does not exactly support this enormous development, and even according to the data of this centre, our country is in the ranks of countries that provide inadequate healthcare on the basis of the quality of health care. We can't count that as a standard of world-class care, can we? The issue of patient safety was particularly highlighted by the Secretary of State. We fully agree with that, but it should be mentioned that there is a steady increase in the number of uncharged GP practices. This, according to the full update of June 1st, reached 319 in GPs and 229 in dentists. This means that the number of settlements where the lack of GPs has become more than 500 have become uncertain about their basic population supply. [[19.20]] True, there is no problem with the qualifications of our doctors and nurses, but with their number. Based on the official data of your organisation, the Health Records and Training Centre, Mr. State Secretary, received 3669 doctors, 2673 workers, 1023 dentists and 292 pharmacists from abroad between 2013-16. And only in relation to EU standards, more than 20,000 workers are missing from the Hungarian health care system. We know, of course, that money doesn't make you happy, especially when it doesn't. As an interview, the reporter of an unpaid political advertising television channel would certainly have asked about the financing of health care. However, as the host failed to do so, it remained in a positive light for the viewers that the supply system was severely underfunded, and as a result, for example, the state debt that was constantly generated and called hospitalization. According to WHO, Eurostat and OECD data, Hungary does not spend even half of the EU average per year on one population of healthcare. For example, waiting lists appear on the side water of this underfunded situation. And then we didn't even talk about wages, which have always been raised in a forced and fire-fighting situation. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. However, the Secretary of State is absolutely right about one thing. This vomitable Hungarian health care could be world-class if the conditions of its operation were ensured if its management could be carried out by the independent Ministry of Health, which is also reflected by the government. But as we know, this is not quite the case in our little country today. With all due respect, I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply.
u2018-06-26-198	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2018-06-26-199	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Madam Secretary of State and many others speak with great respect about Hungarian doctors and Hungarian nurses, and they say that in some cases they can provide care at European level, as they have worked among them, they have worked at the Heim Pál Hospital since the beginning of their career, and they have seen that, whether in the children's hospital or even you can see it, Hungarian doctors in the field of lung transplantation can really provide Europe and world standards, obviously together with the nurses working with them. At the heart clinic in Városmajor Street, too, what is happening there, the internationally reputable, or oncology, the international ratings that oncology received as a reference institution, also show that Hungarian doctors, Hungarian nurses, are able to provide health services at European level. I think you could tell doctors from the hospital memories of Szent Imre who in a Hungarian hospital provided something they could have provided in any country of Western Europe or in North America, only here the access is much wider than in Western Europe or North America. Therefore, doctors, nurses who can actually heal here at European level in Hungary should be respected and respected. That is what the Secretary of State thought, and I think you too could quote a number of examples from Debrecen to Budapest about the number of places where there really are benefits at European level in Hungary. The consumer index you quoted here I tried to find that part quickly, but obviously it can't be done in 1-2 minutes - I remember the index which refers to the fact that in Hungary the conditions of health care are bad because Hungary says it is against European trends on migration. Honourable Congressman, I will look it up, and, where appropriate, I will come up with the European consumer index, which, in principle, is actually dealing with health, which does not deal with health, but contains political accusations. [[Dr. Imre László: With 36 indicators...]] It contains political accusations against Hungary, and if you say in one chapter that migration policy is unacceptable in Hungary, it is difficult to think that you can provide objective data in the field of health. But let me say to you a number pair of a more objective organization, the OECD. Between 2003 and 2010, there was only one country among OECD countries where expenditure on health was reduced. This was Hungary. Health spending has increased in all other OECD countries. Your party president was the Prime Minister in Hungary, Ferenc Gyurcsány, when the resources fell in one OECD country, and then they increased by 2.7 percent between 2010 and 2016, which was the 7th largest increase among OECD countries. The only decrease before 2010 is the 7th largest increase after 2010. This is the basis for improving the quality of healthcare in Hungary, this is the HUF 550 billion, exactly 546, which is now more health than in 2010. It's not a hospital closure, it's not a discharge of medical personnel, it's not a take-out of a month's wages, it's not a lay-off of 16,000 beds, it's not a visitation fee, it's a hospital allowance, it's an extension of resources. I have a few things to correct in what you said. You quoted foreign employment data as being part of it for foreign citizens. Obviously, those who come here from Norway to get a medical degree will go back logically to Norway, but you also listed them as Hungarian doctors emigrating from Hungary. Obviously, it is still difficult if doctors leave Hungary, but fortunately this trend is decreasing. It's dropped by 60 percent over the last eight years. The waiting lists. The waiting lists were also mentioned in an international context. You know that the number of people on the waiting list has decreased from 70,000 to 28,000, and if we look at the length of time a Hungarian patient has to wait on the waiting list, then we are hardly on the European ranking, but the Hungarian data is similar to the waiting list data in Britain. So if you compare this internationally, don't say it's much worse than it is in other countries. Worse than in three countries, and better than in twenty other European countries, thanks to the fact that we have spent tens of billions of forints to reduce these waiting lists substantially, this has been the case in recent years. And speaking of the achievements of recent years, the renovation of 77 hospitals has served to provide health care at European level. This was served by the renovation of 54 clinics, the renovation of 104 rescue stations, the construction of 23 new clinics and the construction of 31 new rescue stations. And it served to ensure that the wages in health care were finally not reduced, but increased. Now, in 4 years, the professional wages increase by 65 percent, and last year and the year before that, medical wages have increased by HUF 207,000, and the general doctors are no longer required to come out of HUF 800,000 in their practice in a month, but from HUF 1.5 million. With these measures, we are really trying to make Hungarian health care as high as possible, as much as possible, at European level, and we are very grateful to those who are already treating Hungary at European level. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-26-200	Thank you. To speak after the next agenda, Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély spoke with a title on current affairs.
u2018-06-26-201	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, Dear Secretary of State, On the occasion of their inspection by the European Union authorities, 24 of the 29 projects under investigation have been exposed to very serious abuses. Due to irregularities found in the selected sample, more than HUF 100 billion was expected to be repaid. Here are some investments that I would like to list, and I would like to mention a single investment. The reconstruction of metro line 3, György Dózsa út-Újpest-Centre: Instead of 19.9 billion, contracts were concluded for HUF 24.1 billion. The electrification of the Budapest-Esztergom railway line: 33.7 billion forints were contracted instead of 28.6 billion forints. Highway E67: HUF 65.7 billion instead of HUF 51.4 billion, HUF 72 billion instead of HUF 55.5 billion. Püspökladány-Ebes-rail reconstruction: HUF 73.5 billion instead of HUF 61 billion, HUF 83 billion instead of HUF 68.6 billion. Road development and railway renovations, if we look at the public procurements, are in the interest of Lőrinc Mészáros. I would like to mention one project here: this is the renovation of the Bishop-Ebes railway line. In 2015, the Railway Line was handed over to Sajol-Püspökladány, where there were serious doubts about the investment, only at that time Lőrinc Mészáros was not the father of the railway development, but Lajos Simicska. [[19.30]] In 2015, when the investment of the railway development was handed over, we had already passed that G-day, one of the sufferers of this was not the railway renovation, the Sayol-Püspökladány line, because we managed to complete it, but the end of the M4 which they still suffer in the area of Szolnok and the area of Hajdú-Bihar. After that, we thought that in 2015 there would be an immediate start to refurbish the Bishop's-Ebes line, since we were promised that the application had taken place and that it would start immediately. We had to wait almost two years for the renovation, since Lőrinc Mészáros' company wasn't ready to take over Simicska's company's investments. Then the construction was started, and it turned out that the renovation costs HUF 73.5 billion instead of HUF 61 billion, more than HUF 12 billion were contracted for the tender. And what the European Union has noticed is that from 30 percent to 50 percent in the process of signing the contract, the advance payment to the Mészáros company was raised. Lőrinc Mészáros didn't have to cut a hoe, so he didn't do anything, 50 percent of this HUF 73.5 billion was immediately paid as an advance. Now the European Union wants to impose a penalty of HUF 16 billion on this development. I am speaking here to make a report, because no one on the government's side will say that learning from G-Day will endanger the continuation of the investment by repaying this 16 billion forints, because if we think about it, it is a very serious amount, if we have to pay it back to the state, and we hope that Lőrinc Mészáros will threaten its completion, because we are not even at a third of the renovation. For the sake of the record, I have to say that there is not only a loss of 16 billion dollars for the population and Hungary, but for the three originally planned overpasses that would have affected the cities of Kaba, Hajdúszoboszló and Ebes, it is interesting that, despite the increased costs, only one of the three overpasses will be built, and no one has yet given an answer as to how this could have happened, only the overpass of Kaba, the overpass of Hajdúszoboszló and the overpass of Ebes have disappeared. Even though studies have prepared that it is very needed because of the large number of accidents and to ensure safety of rail transport and personal transport, two out of three overpasses have basically disappeared. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I will continue in my next post-meeting speech. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-26-202	Thank you. Antal Csárdi, Member of the European Parliament, asked to speak after the last agenda:, Public Money Billions to the Red Bull Air Race. You have the floor.
u2018-06-26-203	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, For the record, there's no one on the government's side here, so let's call the empty house after the agenda. But if you are curious that the health and safety of the Hungarian people or the business interests of multinational companies are more important to the Orbán government, look at the history of the Red Bull Air Race! Viktor Orbán's cabinet constantly says that he works for the people who live here. Compared to this, it has provided billions of public money for years, sacrificing the calmness of the population in Budapest and sacrificing the peace of the inner city population in particular - so that a multi-company that produces unhealthy energy drinks can freely advertise its product on the Danube bank, which is protected by the World Heritage. Let's see how this story started. In 2010, all of Budapest was relieved when the then government banned Red Bull Air Race for environmental reasons. The reference was made by an ombudsman's resolution, which I quote -:.. As a result of the environmental pressures reported by the Red Bull Air Race air event, keeping the event in the city centre in such a densely-built residential area is not compatible with the right to a healthy environment. The event with significant noise and air pollution poisons everyday life in the area affected by the competition, and Hungarian law is clearly on the side of the people on this issue. That is why the LMP and myself were shocked that, when the Orbán government allowed competitions again in 2014 with a government decision, and even gave 6 billion in support in the first round, why this happened. At the time, we asked not only why the government stood against the Constitution and the Ombudsperson's resolution, but also why, if the Orbán Cabinet had previously imposed a health tax on these products in the light of the health-damaging effects of energy drinks, why would they advertise the Red Bull out of public money. The Parliamentary Commissioner for Future Generations, in his 2010 resolution, explained in detail that the authorities in the Budapest World Heritage Area have unlawfully authorised the Red Bull Air Race competition with noise emissions above the limit and called on the public administration to demonstrate compliance in the future. The Air Task Force wrote on the matter: "The airplanes emit particles that are extremely harmful to health. . Such particles are released into the air in large quantities from other means of transport and from heating, causing the premature death of some 11 thousand Hungarians each year. To alleviate this serious situation, the government has adopted a forward-looking action programme. However, it only provided a few ten million forints for the implementation of this, and in this context, the state support of the air-polluting air parade with billions of dollars is particularly rescinded. The Greens also said that the state aid paid to Red Bull Air Race is a multiple of the money from the health tax on energy drinks, which makes the whole special tax system ridiculous and pointless, and the government changed the law rather than enforcing the public interest. Since then, the Orbán government has sponsored the Red Bull's health and environmental-damaging air demonstration in Budapest every year with billions of public funds. In the last days of 2016 5,5 billion were allocated from the end of the year to support the parade previously declared illegal due to noise and air pollution. According to the adopted regulation, between 2018 and 20 EUR 6 million is awarded every year, i.e. nearly HUF 3 billion, which is why the Bem quay has now been closed for 20 days, and half of the city center has been closed for three days, so that Hungaroring Sport Zrt. He paid only HUF 12.9 million for the reservation fee, received a 90 percent discount for the reservation fee from the capital, and also gave a 90 percent discount to the municipality of Belváros-Lipótváros, the V. district for the implementation of the event. The LMP would like to draw attention to the fact that the Budapest General Assembly 3/2013. According to Regulation No 1 of the European Parliament and of the Council, in areas owned by the Municipality of Metropolitan City, [[The president's ringing the bell.]] no public contribution shall be granted to the exercise of an activity which would have an adverse effect on the environment, endanger public safety or health. It is clear that the whole system was against the rules, and I am very curious about how the government will react to István Tarlós' manifestation that he does not want to see it again over Budapest. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-26-204	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. We'll resume the meeting tomorrow at 8:00 a.m. Thank you very much. I'm closing the meeting.
