u2018-10-18-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 11th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, at a later date in the session, notary Lajos Szűcs and Mr. Dezső Trusted will be of assistance to me. Welcome, my dear guests, and everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that György Simonka, Fidesz, Member of Parliament, has received a motion to waive his immunity from KSB. 4861/2014-82-I. I'm on a case against the Attorney General. The Speaker of Parliament has issued this to the immunity committee for examination. Dear Parliament, The Hungarian National Bank's business report and report for 2017 and the joint general discussion of the resolution proposal for its adoption will follow. Report submitted by the Hungarian National Bank B/26. and the proposal for a decision submitted by the Economic Committee H/2024. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, I welcome Mr György Matolcsy, President and dear colleagues of the Hungarian National Bank, who have come to the hearing. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr György Matolcsy, President of the National Bank of Hungary, author of the report. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2018-10-18-1	Your Honour, Mr. President. Ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Dear House, Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is a pleasure and an honor to be here to report on the operation of the Hungarian National Bank in 2017. I am pleased to report that the Hungarian National Bank, as it did every year after 2013, was successful and effective in 2017. It worked successfully because it fulfilled all three of its mandates under the law and effectively, because it closed its balance sheet with a positive result. Dear House, Mr President, The Act on the National Bank of Hungary provides for three mandates as a function of the Hungarian Central Bank, and defines the order in which they are appointed. First, price stability must be ensured by the Hungarian National Bank. Price stability means that the increase in price levels in one year does not exceed the target of the central bank's target of 3%; it should not exceed, but preferably not be less, so the price level should be stable. Our second mandate, which will then take effect, is to preserve financial stability. The Hungarian National Bank also fulfilled its first mandate in 2017, as well as its second mandate in full, the Hungarian financial system proved to be stable, the resilience of the Hungarian banking system was significantly strengthened, and the improbable fraud and false actors in the financial system were caught by the Magyar Nemzeti Bank. The Hungarian financial system proved to be one of the most stable financial systems in the European Union in 2017, and this is also indicated by the fact that the Hungarian national currency was among the ten most stable currencies in the world in 2017. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs will take his place in the notary seat.]] Our third mandate is to support economic policy, since, in my view, the Hungarian Government has rightly been able to support employment expansion and the restoration of growth for the first time since 2010, and then the goal of bringing the Hungarian economy to a sustainable path of catching up was met, and the Hungarian National Bank was able to support this in 2017. Dear House, Price stability is targeted by a large number of instruments by the Hungarian National Bank. We have a medium-term monetary policy that targets a sustainable inflation target, i.e. 3 percent, within 5-8 quarters. The fact that inflation is smaller in one quarter or higher in one quarter in Hungary does not threaten the sustainable 3% inflation target. It may arise in the members of this House, the Hungarian public, why inflation is necessary at all, why there is a need for positive inflation, because it could also be negative, as happened in many countries after the global crisis, after the global financial crisis. Well, that's a big problem. I'd like to tell you that if prices in one country continue to drop, it means that all the loans previously received will become heavier and the weight of all the loans that were taken up later will also become more and more difficult. Also, if prices fall from one year to the next, it means that it is not worth buying now, that consumers delay their purchases in Japan, and indeed in some other countries, which first slow down and then eliminate growth, that it is very bad for jobs, and that ultimately puts budgets in trouble. Therefore, the law correctly requires the National Bank of Hungary to ensure price stability. The long-term survival of the price level increase of around 3 per cent is already predicted by the Hungarian National Bank in 2019 and by 2020, and every step has been taken to ensure this in 2017. Inflation already reached 2.4 percent in 2017 within the central bank target band. This also indicates the completion of the first mandate. Once you know that the Hungarian National Bank is using a 3-percent extra-minus reserve band or flexible band, this is already 2.4 per cent within this band. In the autumn of 2017, the Monetary Council, the main monetary decision-making body of the Hungarian National Bank, decided to introduce non-traditional non-conventional instruments that succeeded in reducing both the short and long yield curve of sovereign debt. This is also extremely important, as our budget pays significant interest on the government debt previously accumulated, the lower the interest rates on the sovereign debt market, the less interest payments must be made in the form of interest payments and the more the budget remains for the rest of the budget. The effectiveness of the Hungarian National Bank's interest rate policy, which was carried out in August 2012 but then in 2017, indicates that after a reduction of the base rate of 610 basis points and as an effect of the non-conventional non-traditional monetary policy instruments introduced, long government debt market yields decreased on average by around 560 basis points, while short yields decreased by 680 basis points. [[9.10]] Let us think about what would happen with the financing of the Hungarian government debt; it could be resolved safely, but how expensive it would be if these hundreds of basis points had not happened. Mr President, Thus, as a result, the Hungarian budget's gross domestic product interest expenditure was 600 billion less in 2017 compared to 2013; the same figure, which we will see as an accurate figure in the autumn of 2019, is already HUF 800 billion. That's what a proper monetary policy is worth. In addition, by the end of 2017 the Hungarian budget saved HUF 1600 billion in interest on public debt. It's a huge save. Together, of course, the economic policy revolution that started in 2010 led to the start-up in 2013 that allowed monetary policy to turn around. Dear House, Thus, the gross interest expenditure of the Hungarian budget was already 1.7 percent lower in 2017 than in 2013. That's another very exciting song. Let's think if we want to meet the budget deficit requirement of less than 3 per cent, what is a 1.7 per cent interest rate saving? Dear Members, Ladies and Congressmen, The Hungarian National Bank closed the very successful growth loan programme launched in mid-2013 in March 2017. Success has visible and not visible results. The results you see are also very valuable. Let's think that 2800 billion HUF has flowed into the Hungarian economy through the growth loan programme, with almost half of the company's loan portfolio around 7,000 billion HUF today being provided by the growth loan programme. It is also a very significant result that some 40,000 micro, small and medium-sized enterprises have used the 2.5 percent fixed rate loan of the growth loan programme. I think that the economic history in Hungary knows very few phases and programmes in which and which would have enabled the micro, small and medium-sized enterprises to participate in a credit programme to this extent. I think it is also a great achievement that, through the credit programme, there has already been a two-digit increase in credit in the micro, small and medium-sized enterprises sector. The entire sector was later driven by the growth credit programme, already in the summer to 17 autumns, and then in 2018 by the sustainable expansion of loans. The growth loan programme was therefore successful, contributing about 2-2.5 percent to the growth of the Hungarian economy. But I must tell you, ladies and gentlemen of the House, that the impact that is not visible is even more significant. Hungary was in an extremely dangerous economic situation in 2013, and we call it the profession, the economists call it the credit drying. No credit was granted to anyone, in particular micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, no loans for investment, working capital or job expansion. The growth rate in Hungary could not have been achieved in 2013, if the Hungarian National Bank had not launched the growth loan programme with the support of the government in the last minute. It was successful, yet it ended, because the banking system was prepared to continue to expand its credit portfolio with the support of other programs of the Hungarian National Bank. One of these was the market credit programme, which was very successful. In 2016, the banking system, prepared for the launch of the growth credit programme, adopted the new market-type credit programme and overachieved their commitments, achieving a very significant performance value of 250 per cent compared to the commitment. This also indicates the value of an alliance between the government and the central bank, the central bank and the banking system, the government and the banking system and families and businesses. This is the Alliance for Growth and Jobs today. Ladies and Gentlemen, The year 2017 is characterised by a sustainable expansion of loans and loans in each layer of the Hungarian economy, in its group, already in consumption loans, in each layer of corporate credit, and this was supported by the introduction of classified consumer-friendly housing loans in 2017. We started in September 2017 with this very successful programme, which was aimed at helping the lively housing market demand and supply in Hungary with a long-term, qualified form of credit. This started in September 2017, 2018 is the mature phase already. Of course, besides monetary policy, the Hungarian National Bank has fulfilled its mandate in a number of other areas. In 2017, the central bank put risks, financial systems, including the banking system, at the heart of its macro-prudential activities, and through new innovative tools we identified risk levels as financial actors and certain groups of financial markets, and I think this will greatly help to preserve financial stability. Mr President, At the end of 2017, the vice-president of the Hungarian National Bank carried out prudential supervision of a total of 1544 institutions. This in itself is a great number, but in each case it requires a very thorough and detailed examination, and this guarantee is that neither systemic risk nor a large player bears any specific risk to the Hungarian financial system. In 2017, Magyar Nemzeti Bank decided that GIRO Zrt. introduce the financial system that allows for immediate payment. This will be another significant step in the coming years to speed up cash flow in Hungary and to preserve financial stability. With a series of publications, I think that with the publication of hundreds of excellent central bank experts, as well as the excellent work of the Financial Directions Foundation and the book series and series of publications of the Hungarian National Bank, we have stimulated Hungarian economic life, and I think that the conversion of heads, new financial thinking, a more cautious approach, a more conservative and value-based approach has been greatly strengthened by Hungarian families, Hungarian financial consumers and business. In addition to the successful operation of the Hungarian National Bank, the Hungarian central bank has been profitable since 2013. Each year's profits are valuable, with a positive result of about HUF 40 billion in 2017 of HUF 34.3 billion being equally valuable, and similarly significant turns were when the Hungarian National Bank achieved tens of billions in 2013 instead of the losses of HUF 203 billion predicted by the previous central bank management. [[9.20]] This resulted in Hungary being excluded from the excessive deficit procedure by the European Commission in June 2013. In the case of a loss-making central bank, Hungary cannot be excluded from the excessive deficit procedure, because the following years can be planned with a budgetary burden that in itself makes it impossible to recognise the results of the Hungarian economy. Your Honour, Mr. President. Finally, let me, Mr President, and allow this House to indicate that all subsidiaries and foundations of the Hungarian National Bank have managed in a similar way successfully and effectively. What is typical of the Hungarian National Bank is typical of the entire central bank family. The central bank foundations themselves, everyone knows, can only spend the return of the founding property, the founding property itself was increased by HUF 6 billion, and thousands of excellent applications were approved. Together, the Magyar Nemzeti Bank, subsidiaries and foundations provided some 2.5 million Hungarian information consumers with the financial messages needed for price stability, financial stability, growth, employment expansion and the transformation of financial thinking. Finally, Mr President, allow me to thank all those who helped Hungary's central bank in 2017: the Hungarian government, the Hungarian banking system, the financial system, the representatives of the banking system, families, businesses, municipalities, of course the Parliament itself. And don't take it as modest if I thank about 1400 employees, employees and family members of the Hungarian National Bank for contributing to the success of Hungary in 2017, including the Hungarian National Bank in 2017. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-18-2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Sándor Hadházy, Vice-President of the Economic Committee, the rapporteur for the proposal for a decision. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
u2018-10-18-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, One of the important tasks and obligations of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank is to report on its activities to the National Assembly every year, and the National Assembly takes responsibility for carrying out the audit tasks in addition to the legislation. Each year, he listens to the Magyar Nemzeti Bank's report and decides to accept it. At its meeting on 9 October, the Economic Committee, as the committee responsible for tasks and powers, heard and discussed the report of the President of the Hungarian National Bank, György Matolcsy, for the year 2017. The committee has decided to submit a proposal for a resolution before you, based on the report of the National Bank of Hungary, to this House, in the light of which Parliament must assess the activities of the Central Bank in the previous year. Dear Parliament, On the basis of the report, the Economic Committee concluded that the Hungarian National Bank B/26. The report and the report of the Hungarian National Bank for the year 2017 comply with the requirements of the law and provides a thorough and detailed account of the tasks, monetary policy and supervisory activities of the Hungarian National Bank. The report also provides information on the safe operation of payment and securities settlement systems and the financial intermediary system. From 1 January 2018, the Monetary Council of the MNB introduced the interest rate exchange facility with a maturity of five and ten years and a dedicated mortgage bond purchase programme. The activities of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank in 2017 supported the achievement of price stability and the macro financial balance, as well as the growth of the economy. The persistently low base rate, the further development of the BUBOR subscription system and the quantitative limitation of access to the relevant instrument and the active use of the fine-tuning FX swap instrument providing for liquidity generated loose monetary conditions and returns around zero during the short phase of the yield curve during the year. In 2017, both short and long market yields decreased significantly, reducing domestic and corporate interest rates. An important result in 2017 is that, due to the long-term relaxation of monetary conditions, the government's interest savings amounted to HUF 600 billion, and between 2013 and 2017, a total interest saving of HUF 1600 billion was created. Ladies and gentlemen, Since 2013, the central bank has actively supported the government's economic policy, first by launching the growth credit programme, followed by the growth-supporting credit programme. Thanks to these programmes, the dynamic expansion in lending to small and medium-sized enterprises continued in 2017, with an annual comparison of nearly 12 percent of the growth rate. This also means that the expansion of SME lending has steadily increased to the level that the central bank considers desirable. After the growth credit programme has successfully met its objectives, the Monetary Council has decided that the programme's contracting period will end on 31 March 2017. The success of the growth credit programme is supported by precise figures. In the three phases of the NHP, together, nearly 40,000 micro, small and medium-sized enterprises received funding, amounting to more than HUF 2800 billion. The programme is not only the success of the central bank, but also the success of Hungary, as employment has increased and economic growth has taken place. On the basis of the estimate, 101,000 apartment sales were made at national level, which contributed to the fact that in 2017 loans with fixed interest rates, which are transparent, easy and quick to take on board, were sold at favourable prices during the year. Our important goal is to give as many Hungarian families as possible access to their own apartments, to receive loans with fixed interest rates, and to further reduce the interest risk of the population. On the initiative of the Hungarian National Bank, the country's largest digitalisation project, the immediate payment infrastructure, was launched. This will result in a significant reduction in cash flows in 2019 after the planned start of the programme and a better competitiveness of the payment sector. Dear Parliament, The Hungarian National Bank also concluded 2017 with a significant positive result. For the budget, the functioning of the central bank did not impose any burden, as it had a profit of HUF 34.3 billion. This positive result was also greatly contributed to a HUF 26.3 billion improvement in interest rate results and to a positive outcome. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank's profit margin rose to more than HUF 200 billion after 2017, covering potential risks. [[9.30]] Dear House, Since March 2013, the Magyar Nemzeti Bank has been effectively shaping the economic policy of Hungary and working effectively with the Hungarian government. The President and the results of the Central Bank this year confirm that the Hungarian economy is developing at a healthy pace, wages are rising dynamically, pensions are preserving their value, and this is also seen in the everyday lives of Hungarian citizens. The operation of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank also helps the Hungarian government to reduce the debt accumulated by socialist governments year after year, expand employment and support Hungarian families. On behalf of the Economic Committee and myself, I can say that the Central Bank has been exemplary in fulfilling its obligations in 2017. The Fidesz fraction, of course, supports the proposal before this House and asks for its adoption. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-18-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, The representative of the Government indicated that he did not wish to present a position during the debate. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Thank you very much. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: So much for this!]] Honourable Parliament! There will now be keynote speeches within a 15-15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Mr Attila Barcza, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. [[Dr. György Matolcsy is leaving the meeting room. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Is that it, Mr President?]]
u2018-10-18-5	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Member Sándor Hadházy explained in detail the position of the Economic Committee on the report and report of the Hungarian National Bank for the year 2017, which is also the position of the Fidesz-KDNP fraction. First of all, in my speech as Chief Speaker, I would like to draw attention to the importance of effective cooperation between the central bank and the Hungarian government for the financial stability of the Hungarian economy and Hungary. The report states that the Hungarian National Bank closed a successful operating year in 2017 and was able to meet its preliminary objectives at an outstanding level. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to address some important points regarding the report. One of the most important things is financial stability. In the global financial crisis after 2008, Hungary was among the world's ten most risky, vulnerable economies. We know the reasons for this, and there may be no need to go through this again. The country is now one of the medium-risk, medium-vulnerable global economies. This is also a huge achievement because Poland belongs to this group, where one of the most successful European economies in the last 25-30 years, including the European Union, operates. Reducing vulnerability also means that public finances, the budget, are on a sustainable path. This is also due to the fact that by reducing the base rate of 610 basis points, the central bank allowed the budget to save an interest rate of HUF 600 billion in 2017. One of the most important tasks of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank is to support the operation of the government and support economic policy. In terms of price stability, the National Bank of Hungary has reached the target inflation rate, which is a 2.4 percent annual average inflation rate, which was rarely achieved by the central bank, especially in the period 2002-2010. In 2017, Magyar Nemzeti Bank carried out a successful consumer protection activity, which is mainly linked to the development and introduction of qualified consumer-friendly housing loans, which enabled Hungarian people to obtain fixed rate, simpler and more transparent housing loans. Dear House, The Hungarian National Bank is being attacked several times by the opposition because of the HUF exchange rates. In 2017, the Hungarian national currency, the forint, was the world's ten most stable currencies. This may not be known to everyone, but it is a huge achievement, which accurately reflects the fact that the government and the central bank, together with the banking sector, have consciously weakened, moderated or led to the risks of forints and exchange rates. We have cancelled EUR 5.2 billion of public debt while the liquidity of the Hungarian banking system decreased by HUF 3000 billion in 2012. It is a very good result that from 53 percent to around 21 percent in 2017, the foreign exchange government debt was reduced, and now it is about 18 percent below 20 percent. The Hungarian National Bank also carries out significant scientific and educational activities in the framework of economic policy support. In the framework of this, the Central Bank established an agreement with nine leading Hungarian universities, founded a grant of excellence, which is awarded to 400 excellent economists each year, and is awarded within the framework of 25 universities and colleges involved in economic education. As of this year, this has been extended to 100 students from Transcarpathia, so the Hungarian National Bank will grant 500 scholarships of excellence on the basis of a proposal from the respective universities. At the Corvinus University of Budapest, the Hungarian National Bank founded its own central bank department and launched a geocentre, as well as an MBA programme at Fudan University in Shanghai, according to a cooperation agreement between Corvinus University and the Central Bank. Dear Parliament, The Hungarian National Bank fulfilled its legal tasks last year, fulfilled its expectations and objectives, and successfully carried out its activities in the interest of the Hungarian people. On behalf of myself and the Fidesz-KDNP fraction, I thank the Hungarian National Bank for its successful and cooperative work, the results of which, its successes and the positive economic effects of Hungary's citizens can experience every day. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-18-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát would now speak, but he is not in the room yet, so opposition representatives will speak. I give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2018-10-18-7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would have also said hello to Mr President, György Matolcsy, but we see that György Matolcsy has been giving his report in recent years, and then slips out of the room and leaves Vice-President Márton Nagy for us. Well, I'd like to say hello to Mr. Vice President. But let me start by saying, Mr President, that what is going on here in this Chamber is ultra-gas. Ultragas! Mr President, I am sorry, but on the part of the government, we are not even worthy of the accounts of one of the most important institutions. I'm not even gonna tell you how many government representatives come in. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Where is the MSZP fraction?]] Don't take it out on the opposition, honourable Member. Where are the pro-government representatives when we discuss such an important report? I hope that Mr Vice-President will give our regards to György Matolcsy, and it would be good if we could finally get to the point where, once we come in, he too will sit down on this item. I do not want to talk about what György Matolcsy said in his report, but about what was left out about 2017. President György Matolcsy steals the public money from my former colleague, former Member of Parliament, Gergő Bárándy. György Matolcsy did not take this very well, and because of this statement he sued Gergely Bárándy. However, the court has determined that György Matolcsy is to steal public money. The verdict was surprisingly not appealed by Matolcsy, so it became final. The lack of appeal on the basis of civil procedural thinking means that the parties agree with the decision in the judgment, and on this basis, György Matolcsy is likely to agree with Gergely Bárándy that he does steal public money. In April 2017, it was found that the highly expensive nationalized MKB, which was freed from its debts with state aid and then privatized, was transferred to György Matolcsy's relatives and strómans. Tamás Szemerey, the cousin of György Matolcsy and the former right-hand man of Ádám Balogh, György Matolcsy, obtained a stake in the bank. Two of them gained a total 30 percent share. Another significant owner of MKB was the Private Equity Fund Metis, which is linked to László Szily, Lőrinc Mészáros's business partner. [[9.40]] Tamás Szemerey's name and companies have appeared in other cases. His own bank, the Growth Credit Bank, which often lends credit to his own and Matolcsy's circles, has taken over the clientele of several small banks. This is how Buda-Cash's clientele was added from 2015 onwards, for example. This connection is interesting because Buda-Cash was involved in the broker scandal that Matolcsy said he wanted to use to excite an unnamed NATO united bank panic and overthrow the Hungarian government. Possibly encouraged by his financial success, Semerey decided to invest some of his considerable assets in alcohol. Tamás Szemerey and Zoltán Szemerey, both cousins of György Matolcsy, acquired Pécs Sörfőzde Zrt through their investment companies. Ninety-nine percent of his shares. Their extraordinary investment sense is well shown that a law was passed shortly after, in 2017, in order to apply excise duty relief to 200,000 hectolitres of beer, thus raising the border significantly. At the time, there was only one such brewery in Hungary, for which this discount could be a real advantage: the Pécs Brewery. However, the alcoholic success story of the cousins did not end here, as the official supplier of the water vb became the Pécsi Brewery, now part of the Matolcsy family. However, György Matolcsy's cousins were not the only ones who benefited. In 2017, his son won several public procurements worth more than HUF 500 million. Although these were not related to the central bank's activities, the relationship still makes me wonder. Friends couldn't be sad in 2017. That is when László Parragh, the wife of the president of the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Parragh Bianka, entered the Monetary Council of the Central Bank, despite the fact that she is not a known expert in this area. His hearing revealed that Parragh Bianka is a big fan of György Matolcsy, and he believes that the Hungarian economic policy cannot be understood for two decades without György Matolcsy. György Matolcsy also sparkled his expertise in the field of international financial movements in 2017. This year he presented his theory that the broker scandal was provoked by foreign forces Buda-Cash and Quaestor scandal with the aim of overthrowing the Hungarian government, and this has been going on for years; the broker scandals were the result of this long process. György Matolcsy claimed that the broker scandal was exposed by the central bank and its people, but this statement proved to be false. During the reconstruction of the event series, several portals proved that György Matolcsy, the Hungarian National Bank, had nothing to do with this scandal, and they should have had an obligation to stop this process. In the framework of this, György Matolcsy also said that the brokerage scandal was linked to the NATO alliance's intention to overthrow the Hungarian government, to which the foreign country's secret service has wanted to use the Hungarian National Bank since 2014, which should have caused a bank panic in order to bring about the fall of the Hungarian government. György Matolcsy has not been able to support this claim with evidence since then, despite the fact that this theory has been mentioned several times in the Hungarian Parliament. Many thought that these ideas were referring to the United States of America, and in this context they asked the American Hungarian Embassy, where they replied that Mr Matolcsy's statements were simply unbelievable. The role of the United States of America was also raised in Parliament, where György Matolcsy expressed with a really bold line of thought to opposition representatives asking him that no one spoke about the United States of America, why the opposition thought that it was America. And he asked me if any of the congressmen who were asking him had information about that particular bank panic. On this subject, on the initiative of my former colleague, László Szakács, on the Economic Committee, they wanted to listen to György Matolcsy, but Erik Bánki, the Fidesz Vice-President of the Committee, said that they did not consider this important issue to be a matter for discussion. The matter was also dealt with by the National Security Committee. At this meeting, however, it turned out that no Hungarian secret service had any information about the allegations that György Matolcsy made about the case. This is also supported by the statement by the then minister of the secret services, János Lázár, who also did not hear anything that would support what György Matolcsy said. Zsolt Molnár, then chairman of the National Security Committee, said after the meeting that the reaction was neither image nor voice. Attila Mesterházy filed charges against an unknown unsub for espionage and other criminal charges against the state. And let's talk a little bit about the allocation of the President of the Central Bank and his staff in 2017. György Matolcsy's salary was increased to HUF 5 million in 2016; the other employees of the central bank were also rewarded. Vice-President Márton Nagy, in addition to his HUF 9 million monthly salary, received a HUF 43 million discount loan from the Hungarian National Bank for the purpose of the XII. In the district, buy yourself an apartment of nearly 90 square meters. This loan was part of the package under which the Hungarian National Bank grants preferential loans to its employees. In 2017 there were 402 live loans, the largest of which was HUF 50 million, the second largest was HUF 45.5 million. I am pleased that my fellow Member has spoken about the important family support systems that are being provided to families. This proves that the Magyar Nemzeti Bank is very fond of providing reasonable loans to its employees. The central bank staff couldn't complain at the end of the year. A total of 151 million HUF 605 thousand were awarded to 468 employees of the Hungarian National Bank at the end of 2017. György Matolcsy had to decide each of these rewards in person. President of the Central Bank György Matolcsy spent HUF 2006 billion in 2017 and ten times as much money on non-core activities as the then central bank spent in 2006. However, the resources spent for these purposes were not adequately controlled, the accounts were often of low quality, which were not sufficiently transparent, and the verification of the achievement of the objectives supported, and the feedback to the points of decision often failed. In many cases, there was a complete lack of documentation on the basis of the accounting, so the central bank accepted, for example, a photograph of the supported publication instead of an accurate accounting. A photo! No accounting, Mr. Vice President, one photograph is enough. For example, the Hungarian National Bank Foundation Pallas Athene Domus Animae gave support to a full Hungarian business delegation in 2017. The purpose of the trip was to participate in forums and business meetings, but it was part of the support that the delegation received a 50% discount at the five-star Kempinski Hotel. Magyar Nemzeti Bank's real estate assets also increased significantly and became more equipped in 2017. In May 2017, the Ybl Palace of Andrássy Road 40-42 was purchased by the Foundation of the MNB Pallas Athena, for a total of EUR 14.9 million, which was nearly HUF 5 billion, and significant sums were spent on renovating it. The property under number 21 of Úri Street couldn't complain either. After the purchase in 2016, to which the central bank spent HUF 1.8 billion, the central bank renovated the building from HUF 3.6 billion at the end of 2016 and early 2017 through the Foundation Pallas Athena. The renovation of Magyar Építő Zrt. László Szíyj, a business associate of Lőrinc Mészáros. This was the property where in the autumn of 2017 the Hungarian National Bank purchased four carpets in the amount of HUF 23 million! In November, when György Matolcsy was asked about this, these purchases were justified by the fact that an 800-year-old building must have its past and present, as well as equipment that is worthy of unical economics training; moreover, it has helped to maintain the carpet weaving profession by providing financial support to carpet companies. [[9.50]] By the way, the operations of the Hungarian National Bank Foundations, as we have seen above, were already quite expensive, they were not very regular. The Procurement Decision Committee imposed a fine on 66 cases after 112 contracts examined, 7 out of 9 contracts relating to the renewal of the Ybl villa. Mr Vice-President, I hope you will give us this information on how this could have happened. Ladies and gentlemen, If we look at the year 2017, these scandals have all been left out of President Matolcsy's report. The stories that the foundation has lost, so to speak, its public money character, which we have repeatedly raised from the opposition, how it was possible to leak public money from the Hungarian central bank, so to speak, to be disposed of through the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank. We're talking hundreds of billions of forints. What György Matolcsy talked about at the committee meeting was that they spent 2 percent of these resources on education and research, all the rest spent on urization, real estate purchase, renovations and the enrichment of their own so-called families. I very much hope, or dare we hope, that someday we will achieve that President György Matolcsy will listen to such a debate, he will sit down and not send Martin the Great to answer for him, but he himself will answer the opposition's points. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-10-18-8	Thank you, Congresswoman. I just want to inform you that I learned the Hungarian language differently in high school, and I don't always use the interpreter dictionary, so I think it's good to use the literary language in the Hungarian Parliament. Thank you very much for your understanding. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] Dear Parliament, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group, will be taking the floor. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-10-18-9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Vice President, I am serious that we have not talked to Mr Dániel Z. Karpat to make him a little late, and then I can listen and respond to the speech in MSZP, but thank you, because I think we have heard so much slippage here in the last 15 minutes, which is worth drawing attention to. If we are talking about the activities and the environment of the Hungarian National Bank, then two dates should be noted: one before and after 2010 economic policy, and the other before and after 2013 central bank management would like to mention this a little bit. The Congresswoman spoke here about a number of things concerning the National Bank, including the salaries of the central bank's managers. I have tried to search here with the help of the Internet, but I have not found a speech when you have protested that András Simor, your President of the Central Bank, made more than one and a half times as much money during the crisis as President Matolcsy, in the years of growth, I have not found this, and I am sure that he will correct it, and he will say that he has spoken against it many times, but I have been unable to find it on the Internet. We know that inflation was kept at unbelievable heights above 4,7, 4, 1, 3, and inflation was above 3 percent in their last years, and in 2013, when the new management took over the central bank, then, see wonder, inflation could be brought down to 1.7, then even less, and ever since then, it was kept in the range within 3 percent to make it easier for Hungarian families as well. Unfortunately, the previous central bank management didn't care much about that. We also see that the pre-2013 management has accumulated a lot of negative results, we have results such as minus 41.5 billion, minus 35 billion, all of which had to be replaced by Hungarian taxpayers in the central bank. The congresswoman also did not mention how much more than a hundred billion forints could have been spent, which in those years Hungarian taxpayers had to pay to the central bank to cover their losses. What we see is that when we compare economic policies before 2010 and after 2010, I understand that it pains the socialists that the Fidesz-KDNP government did not continue the economic policy that then destroyed the country's aids and did not create jobs; they did not support families; they drove a significant part of the country into foreign currency loans; they applied restrictions; they took a month's wages. We understand that this is the economic policy of the socialists, but I am sorry that we broke up with this, and after 2010, when we managed to pull the country back from the brink of bankruptcy, we launched it on the road to growth, and since then 750 thousand more people have been working, there has been a steady average wage increase since 2011. We have undertaken to preserve the real value of pensions, and we have preserved and even paid the pension premium for the second time, and unfortunately, the Member has not said anything about them either, that a completely different economic policy approach and economic policy have characterised the post-2010 government, and this economic policy has led us to a stable growth path in the country now. I'm afraid we haven't heard of these. I think that in economic terms, in professional books and studies, it is rarely possible to meet the word composition or so, which is important to mention, however, that this is an important work, the creation of value and the preservation of value, which I think the central bank has taken on as a kind of role in the financial world, and in scientific, research, economics or cultural fields it is doing a kind of value-creating and safekeeping work that I think we all have to appreciate and carry out in a professional career that I think everyone can be proud to have at present such a central bank. I have been told that according to current laws, the National Bank has three tasks under the legislation adopted by Parliament: it means ensuring price stability, ensuring financial stability and supporting government economic policy. We believe that in 2017, as we are also talking about the 2017 report, the MNB achieved these three objectives at a high level. We see that inflation was still below the 3 percent range, which is not an unusual result at first glance, but I mentioned earlier that this was not always the case, and the central bank management before 2013 affected Hungarian families with very high inflation. We also see that financial stability was also an important aspect of the operation of the central bank last year, and that Hungary was among the world's ten most vulnerable economies in 2010; by 2017 it was among the medium-risk global economies. I would like to note here what the President has referred to as the forint being one of the ten most powerful currencies in the world. [[Zsolt Gréczy: The worst exchange rate of all time! Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] I think it's a very important achievement. A reduction in vulnerability also means that public finances and budgets are on a sustainable path. Here, government economic policy and the activities of the central bank together have resulted in the budget being put on a sustainable path. Here we see a decrease in interest rates, as the base rate was also incredibly high, and the pre-2013 management did not address the fact that this high base rate poses risks and burdens for Hungarian families, and with a 610 basis points base rate reduction, the historically lowest base rate has been achieved since its founding in 1924. I would like to say two things quickly, because I think that, in addition to the tasks of the central bank laid down by law, there are two or three areas that we consider to be extremely important in the political alliance. This is, on the one hand, the reduction of cash-free, cash-saving and cash-using, and on the other hand, a very important new innovative solution will be introduced, the introduction of the immediate payment system, the GIRO system, which is now almost ready, and it will be able to fully work next year. [[10.00]] I think it is very important that we can create an innovative financial environment where fintech companies offering new solutions can also participate in the Hungarian economy and the financial system. The second aspect is to raise young people's financial awareness and to teach financial awareness more widely, to transfer knowledge. I think that there are tasks to be done here as well, and we have also indicated this to the national portfolio, as well as to the National Bank, because through an approach-forming campaign, publications or a partnership agreement with nine universities, we can pass on a financial awareness to growing generations that is very important that they no longer fall into the fault of their predecessors, and that they will be able to live as more conscious farmers and more conscious financial users. On the part of the socialists, she also referred to the accounting policy or the accounting and accounting system in the National Bank. It was not this central bank management that the State Audit Office found that it had repeatedly failed to comply with the public procurement law in 2010. So the central bank itself violated the law and failed to comply with the rules that apply to it. Public procurement has been written and conducted in such a way that it has violated many sections of the law. Of course, at that time, the Socialist faction strongly protested against it, but we do not remember it. Moreover, the central bank has not complied with its own internal rules, and this has also been made public in connection with the SAO report, that it has established internal regulations that neither its own leaders have complied with. I think that this period had to end, and after a failure to comply with the SAO's rules, high inflation and a negative result, in 2013, the central bank led by György Matolcsy had to start with such an inheritance in order to achieve the current result level. And although it is not related to 2017 because recent news that the central bank has multiplied the gold reserve ten times, I think that this is a very important step, that if we can see any negative signs, and if there are signs of a crisis in the near or medium term, then we have such a stable reserve. By the way, we have caught up with many of the countries in the region, as our gold reserves have increased to a greater extent than, say, Slovakia, Ukraine, the Czech Republic, Slovenia or Croatia, which is an average or higher than average result in the countries in the region. I think that this is also a step towards the responsible management of the National Bank. The KDNP fraction also supports the proposal for a decision submitted by the Economic Committee, and I would like to thank Mr President, Vice-President and his colleagues for the activities of the National Bank last year and for their high level of professional work. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-18-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, is coming to a speech. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2018-10-18-11	Mr President, Dear House, With due restraint, in the case of a serious professional proposal, I try to start with my very short introduction, what is good in this report, and what is positive about the debate on it, by the way. I didn't necessarily mean the title, but there are clearly some positive processes that we always highlight, which represent a maximum of one tenth of what I have to say, but I must tell you that there are basically some professional debates that we could have here. The report does not discuss them, and my fellow members of the Government did not mention them, since they do not work, but tend to only want to share their political attitude with the wider public for reasons unknown to me, because they have done so 40,000 times. For example, we should argue here about three points: how to approach this whole issue professionally. One is the base rate of the historical record. It's probably the lowest in history. It is not far from me to do so, since, in the interests of those who have suffered foreign exchange credit, who have otherwise been harmed in part by the MNB in a brutal way, this is particularly important to me in their interests. At the same time, I would be very interested in the MNB's position as to whether this historically very low level is sustainable, how long it is sustainable, and how I am confused about why the MNB is not operating with the tools that would otherwise be at its disposal when there is external tension in this system. So let us say that the minimum intervention on the interest corridor could perhaps have been expected twice in recent months, in a year or two, we also held a press conference in front of the institution concerned, and we drew attention to the fact that there are fine-tuning tools that could be used. Unfortunately, they weren't used. I am interested in maintaining the low level of the base rate as long as possible, primarily for the benefit of the credit-damaged, but this can also serve Hungarian national economy interest. At the same time, the question arises as to how long the MNB's activities will allow this to happen. The other thing that's weird to me is strange for years, I might add, so I'm not just addressing Mr Matolcsy, who isn't here, and not just the Vice President who's here, who you left here to answer the questions, we hope you will. It is surprising to me that the central bank does not have an exchange rate target declared. It is possible to refer to what legislation provides for this, but I would certainly expect some orientation, personally from Mr President, Mr Vice-President, because in recent months the forint has weakened by another 3-4 percent, which can not only be extremely bad news for the victims mentioned above, and I am shocked that the Government of Hungary has done nothing as a lame duck. I don't know what the MNB would do or what it would do at all, what it would do in a situation where it had wider powers at its disposal. But I must say that this weakening in itself exerts a clear qualified inflationary pressure. So I can appeal to my fellow government Members here to refer to the low inflation environment and make it a very good thing, otherwise it is a very good thing if it is sustainable. But here again, I would just like to draw your attention to the situation of inflation among basic foods, where we can see that the livestock basket consumed in typical Hungarian living situations, which contains basic foods much more widely than, let us say, all the goods consumed by the foundations of the MNB, clearly shows that the inflation of basic foods is brutally high compared to average inflation. And if we look at, let's say, a pensioner-goods basket, a cattle basket that a typical retirement household consumes, we can see that this inflationary pressure is significantly stronger than not only the national average, but all other livestock basket types. However, we also see that the MNB does not examine these typical life situations in its report, and also does not examine typical Hungarian life situations in the government's commentary. So you can put a victory report on the table here, but exactly the point is left out: the situation of the Hungarian people, the typical Hungarian families, and the possibilities of repairing it. So I would encourage my fellow Members, and I am not addressing this to the MNB, but to my fellow members of the government, to leave the party conference standard and to talk a little bit about what would be the conclusion of this whole material, whether or not life opportunities in Hungary are expanding. Thirdly, I was shocked by the fact that our fellow KDNP lead speaker referred to the positive measures taken in relation to the cash stock. Well, the figures show that in 2017, cash in circulation increased by 12 percent. This amounts to HUF 5114 billion, to be exact. I think that this is a bit contrary to the mainstream text that we hear not only from pro-government colleagues, but also from the leaders of the MNB, and I must see that this does not necessarily favour the fight against corruption. But what I think we should talk about here is that it would be a well-intentioned initiative to reduce the level of cash to a tolerated level. So don't ban cash, so don't act like you're doing house savings and everything else that's alien to you and you don't like it, you don't have to ban it, you have to rationalize different segments. Here, too, it is okay to rationalise the level of cash stocks, but on the other hand, there is a financial transaction fee, instead of a tax it is called a levy to carry this through with less boxing and fistfights in Brussels, but we talked about this financial transaction fee here over 270 billion in one year, but the magnitude remains the same in its entirety, declared and declared by the commercial banks concerned to pass it on to consumers. What's wrong with that? He's got a lot of problems. One is that the legislator imposed this on the commercial banks concerned. The person on whom the tax liability has been imposed will personally pass on all this. [[10.10]] The Government of Hungary does nothing on this issue, it wanders again like a lame duck in the middle of the clamp, and doesn't even know where he's getting another punch from. The MNB, in which the majority of the consumer protection powers are thus absorbed, not all of them, but a significant part of them, also does not take any meaningful counter-opinion with regard to the damage to Hungarian consumers, the hundreds of billions of Hungarian citizens. It's shocking to me. Of course, it is possible to argue which is important in relation to the MNB's core activity or its additional activities, which is more important, where should be moved, but if it approves a net classified robbery, the government, in conjunction with the MNB, keeps it very difficult to classify, and it is very difficult to take seriously the recommendations, observations and findings on all other papers. In short, I would like to say in the words of praise that it is a pleasure that the Parliament has included the discussion of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank's business report and report at all this year. It wasn't always like that before. It was many years before we could discuss the report on the MNB. So this is a positive step forward, and I appreciate it. At the same time, please explain to me in this room that if we are discussing the MNB's business report and report, then why not the report of the MNB's supervisory board, the MNB's continuous ownership control body! Why, then, would they try to block the comments of the Supervisory Board from Parliament, which, as a monitoring body, could indeed make a substantive criticism of the MNB's annual activity? In July of this year, the fb informed the Parliament about all this, but somehow the government left out of this debate and the MNB forgot the report, comments and findings of its own supervisory board. This is questioning the seriousness of the report and firing one of its pillars. We also need to see what is probably one of the most serious questions from the Paksamet before us, that the MNB has received HUF 70.3 billion in income from the currency change, and besides other revenues, this has played a crucial role in making more than HUF 38 billion in profit, we are talking about 34.3 billion in fact. At the same time, we see that, despite German, Polish and other patterns, profits are not paid into the Hungarian budget as dividends. Before the Vice-President takes any more note, I am obviously not addressing this criticism to you, because I know the relevant legislation, and I know that unfortunately, in Hungary, it is not compulsory to pay the MNB's profits to the last penny against the position of my group. But what we see is that other, I think it's better to allow me to do so in countries, either have to pay this surplus, profit, or, optionally, Parliament decides not only to accept the financial report, but also to use the profits. I would like to feel lucky, especially in a situation where the MNB is being charged..., on my part, and I am taking this charge, Mr Vice-President, I accuse you of looting the Hungarian foreign exchange credit victims, that is to say, they have been involved in this process, not exclusively, I will not pin the full responsibility on you, I will try to approach the issue in a fair way, but they have been involved in the looting of Hungarian credit victims. After that, when record gains are realised, including from foreign exchange credit conversion in earlier periods, I am quite certain that if I were to offer the MNB's management, I would like to draw attention to the need to change the laws and decide on the surplus and profit generated by the MNB, so I would at least try to broaden the framework precisely for their self-preservation. Thus, it is clear that the MNB has a profit goal, while you always say that there are no; you always say that it cannot be done by law. I'm trying to believe that. But the fact is that the brutal surplus on the currency exchange, measured in hundreds of billions, was parked in the MNB. I'll tell you what I would have done, and I'm interested in your opinion, your opinion, how much you consider this acceptable. I would have obliged the MNB, with the necessary changes in legislation, to pay the surplus generated one-on-one into the budget. In the budget, I would have set up a compensation fund with an amendment, and I would have tried to use this compensation fund to help families who have already been evicted from this fund, in as many living situations as possible, if not to restore the original state, but at least to at least to help families who have already been evicted. Once again, we are talking about hundreds of billions of dollars in scale. But the financial assassination, the possibility of which has not been raised, and I am addressing it to the government side in particular, is not the MNB, because the MNB is bound by the current legislation, it is quite amazing. But on the part of the management of the MNB, for their own protection, I would have considered it important at least to try to broaden the framework at a communication level, at least to communicate and start a debate about whether these laws could be changed, whether it would be worthwhile to remove the burden of responsibility from the MNB and move it to the Hungarian Parliament. Obviously, I do not mean the Hungarian government, even if there are two-thirds majority, because we are talking about long-term processes, decades of processes, and this country is so lucky that the present two-thirds will not last forever. But I have to say that the fact that we are not even discussing how to improve the situation empties not only the Hungarian Parliament, but after a while Hungarian public thinking. So you can no longer say Soros; you can no longer say that he is a migrant. This should be answered by professional arguments. I very much hope that this debate will allow room for this. I would like to add that I would like to welcome one more thing, not only to say the wrong thing: raising the gold supply to a level of HUF 33 billion is clearly something to be welcomed. I would like a very strong demand for a statement that will make the entire family silver showable and detectable to us. I am clearly referring to the national inventory that this government has been promising since 2010 and has not been completed since 2010. In connection with the state assets, there were proposals before us, there were various lists where they tried to taxatively list the various elements of state wealth. The Parliament building, where we are arguing, was fortunately included in this register, but let's say the Chain Bridge was already missing it. So it was quite difficult to take seriously the approach, not the intention, but rather the execution we had encountered. I would demand a useful, transparent national inventory of assets, precisely so that we can see clearly what both Hungary and the MNB are managing. By the way, I'd like to see if you're doing this like a good farmer or not. As long as these pillars are missing, it is very difficult to debate in substance such a report, and if it is difficult to debate it in substance, because there are no partners in this, then its adoption is impossible. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-10-18-12	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Varju, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-18-13	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, At first, I would like to express my hope, or I would like to express the fact that, although I have worked as a miner for a good decade myself, I am trying to use the literary language in such an environment as Mr President's wishes, even in a case which, I think, will certainly upset eight out of ten million people, it will upset you if you read this report that we have. I would also like to add that although the mood can be significantly influenced by the way Mr President said goodbye to us after his presentation, because he thanked everyone, the families, the relatives, everyone, for one thing he left out: world peace. I should have added that, and then it's totally fine. I think we should have this debate under these circumstances. Just because I give you two examples of how to get such an important issue out of discussion first of the Committee on Budgets. With a government decision or a government majority's decision, the debate was redirected to the Economic Commission in order not to have to discuss this in an opposition environment, in opposition-led committee, although, I think, in accordance with both domestic and international practice, this should be the case. But it is not enough, but even in the absence of the President, although I believe that Mr Vice-President, who is paid with the wage of silence, will speak to him, but the point is that in the absence of Mr President and in the absence of the members of the government, we will continue this conversation rather than a debate, because I see that we will be in two completely separate situations with each other. [[10.20]] Practically everything that has happened has been removed from the control of Parliament. When do they do that? Then, when it is safe to say, here is my first statement: the Hungarian National Bank is part of it and so we can continue the accusations, it sent Hungary to Hungary with a conscious foreign exchange policy that it reached an exchange rate above 320 forints and reaching historical heights during the summer. This, I think, is an act that the Hungarian National Bank has damaged a lot of people, even if, by the way, you have made a profit that I would like to return to. What is apparent from the report so far, and I would like to point out that the HUF 38 billion generated this year, I think, as a profit, the Hungarian budget, the Hungarian people, or the right to be given back to Parliament in order for the decision to be made here. I am not here to tell my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, that this bank should manage profitably, but that it should represent the interests that are most important to Hungary. The Hungarian National Bank's statutory task is to manage the foreign reserves of the country, and the reserve is included in the balance sheet of the Hungarian National Bank at an average cost rate. When the Magyar Nemzeti Bank otherwise buys foreign currency, the average cost rate will be adjusted on the basis of the quantity purchased and its exchange rate. When it sells the currency, the selling price and the average cost rate at which it is sold would distinguish the corresponding exchange rate result and thus be realised for each euro sold. Between 2013 and 17, Mr Vice-President, the result of the exchange rate was more than HUF 1000 billion in total. [[To István Márton Nagy:]] Isn't that right, Mr. Vice President? That's it. Even by suppressing a yawn, I understand that this is your view of this story, but if the central bank had paid it to the Treasury, then the Maastricht balance of the budget would not have improved so much, but the exchange rate results in this respect would have looked much different. It would have improved that the debt would have been much smaller, and we have already explained this in connection with the discussion of the 2019 Finance Act. As the daily euro exchange rate continues to exceed the average cost of the foreign reserve at the end of last year in the previous months of 2018, it can be said with great certainty that this result has been generated there for you both now and last year. We're talking about a thousand billion forints in debt that you should have paid, and you could be here in the budget. Mr President has even talked about the need to introduce a growth loan against super-dehydration on the way here and in his expozee. They made an alliance with families. No doubt that was true. Some large families, especially the Szemerey family, were formed; this great alliance lasted and lasted until Kecskemét, and they truly enjoyed it, standing on their own feet. In the case of consumer loans, where the institution of classified loans mentioned by you has been introduced, while more and more people are talking about and writing about the fact that there is a credit disaster in Hungary. And you're ignoring that. 50,000 failed apartments, hundreds of thousands of people on the bar list. The ratio of residential loans to be granted beyond 90 days may have decreased significantly in the bank's records, but in the meantime, it has accumulated significantly, and the amount of HUF 550 billion is also higher than the amount received by the claims-buying companies. This is the case, and the bank's statements are better; but what you have done in the context of foreign exchange lending, and as you have handled it, this is a credit disaster that you have created. This includes the fact that 50,000 families have so far been on the streets because of the fact that you have not used this 1000 billion forints for what you should have done; instead, a significant part of it has been rescued into a foundation. Finally, I would like to mention one thing, with which I would like to justify why this report is unacceptable to us and to me. In this report, I take out one element: what is listed among the factors determining the communication of the Hungarian National Bank. Focusing on issues of financial stability, qualified, consumer-friendly housing credit, as I have just mentioned, financial awareness... is being addressed, and that is the focus of your communication. But what happens to the money saved into the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank, which is public money, is hardly mentioned... not a word. So, in this sense, this report is unacceptable, because, therefore, the activity at the foundations that you should have reported on has not done so; and, moreover, this framework should have been used in the same way, Mr Vice-President, you should have used it to help foreign exchange creditors. You didn't decide that. Instead, they invest in carpet purchases, construction and property purchased at a significant surcharge. In this context, they carry out their activities. Yesterday, in the debate on the budget closure, Minister Varga discussed the very important elements that the government considers to be important. Among these important projects was Paks II. its complexity and its particular importance. Mr Matolcsy, who is treating this as a particularly important issue, and he is also very supportive of this project, other things in this regard, I think that this is clear from non-public discussions, but I think it would be worth giving the same consideration to his actions or interventions in this regard. Therefore, if you are talking about the factors determining their communication, I would ask you to do so in full. Please explain what you have done to ensure that this 250 billion HUF, which is also a public money by the court, will be reported in detail, and then it will be worth continuing this discussion. As long as this is left out of your report, the draft decision that you have tabled here with the Economic Committee is not acceptable and, accordingly, I do not support its adoption. Mr President, thank you very much for this opportunity. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-18-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2018-10-18-15	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, According to the 2017 Magyar Nemzeti Bank report, one of the most important decisions made by the MNB last year is the launch of the growth loan programme. This fact is important because the central bank recognises that a period has ended in which businesses could obtain positive funding, and we should definitely note this, because there should be a preparation for the narrower period here. There's no sign of that, of course. [[10.30]] We know exactly, because the Minister of Finance, but in practice the market players are also speaking independently of each other about the fact that, in fact, the international economic activity that has characterised the past years, which has greatly helped the Hungarian economy, is in full swing, and if the Hungarian National Bank, the Hungarian economy, does not start preparing for this now, then this process can be a serious loser of Hungary. I think that the words of György Matolcsy, which last week said that it was necessary to prepare for a critical period, and that there was another important step this week, the purchase of gold reserves, are referring to this preparation, but we all know precisely that this seems to be delayed on the one hand and, on the other hand, beyond being late, there was no sign that he had started preparing for this in 2017. In general, physical gold purchases are promoted by investors when they no longer have such confidence in the market and its predictability, so it is possible that the Hungarian National Bank and György Matolcsy decided to take this step, which may otherwise be agreed. At the beginning of the summer there was a rather strong weakening in the euro/forint exchange rate, to which the government reacted by a speculative attack on the Hungarian currency. I ask what happens if, to a greater extent, it starts to weaken the forint much faster in the event of a possible crisis. Then how are we going to get out of this situation? Ladies and gentlemen, These threats must be highlighted and prepared, because we already know this market. A possible correction can quickly cause recession, and such a, I think, can cause very serious damage to the Hungarian economy, the economic activity that has helped the Hungarian economy so far. But let's look at last year in detail. The problems and possible scenarios previously projected were not typical for last year. The situation on the world market was very positive, it was not such a large story that forced the Hungarian National Bank to take action. Last year the interest rate did not change either, it was stable at 0.9 percent. However, I would add that this is actually not the success of the Hungarian National Bank, but it is actually due to the fact that the past year has been in such a favourable environment that it has made this possible. The fact that in such a market environment many more companies take credit, get credit, because they want to expand and develop is fine. But I do not think that it is okay, ladies and gentlemen, that start-up companies that would enter into such an interest-rate environment, or businesses that would not be able to obtain credit on the grounds of catalysm taxation, will not receive any such assistance today, and there is no programme for the Hungarian National Bank in 2017 that would have helped this. According to the report, 2017 was in the service of financial awareness. I think I'm gonna have to make a decision this week. If it does not concern the 2017 report in its entirety, I think that when we talk about how much the Hungarian National Bank wanted to serve the financial awareness already in 2017, I think that this cannot be missed, that the Hungarian Parliament has stopped a savings option in just over 24 hours, which has primarily helped our fellow countrymen who cannot put away 20-30 thousand forints or save higher amounts per month. Technically, this form of savings has been emptied by the withdrawal of State aid. It hurts me very, very much that the Hungarian National Bank did not raise its word in order to ensure that self-care cannot be replaced with CSOK and three children, but first there is self-care. This is the responsibility of all governments, parliaments and national banks, and by the way, as we know, Mr President is in a good relationship with the Prime Minister, I think he could have helped families who have lost this opportunity to save. Also in 2017 there was a strong emphasis on resolution, especially in the case of MKB bank with a dubious ownership background. Even the State Court of Auditors had objections to the resolution plan of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank, but in the end there were no problems in the resolution of MKB, however many questions still arise about the financial institution already owned by Lőrinc Mészáros. We asked György Matolcsy about this several times during the plenary session of Parliament, who always talked about a success story about the processes around MKB. Although György Matolcsy has not been able to speak positively about the economic and monetary political turn since 2010, and I think it was just a coincidence that this coincides with the victory of Fidesz-KDNP in 2010. Erzsébet Schmuck, my former colleague, asked the President of the Central Bank how much it ultimately cost taxpayers to privatise the MKB bank and to carry out resolution, i.e. to free it from its bad loans. But of course, the answer was clearly that it did not cost a tax-paying forint, but it was not possible to say anything wrong about a financial service provider that was part of a family member and partly owned by a good friend of the Prime Minister! One of the most important problems, which, unfortunately, still remains a problem, and when we are discussing this report, we cannot go without saying so, since it is already mentioned in the President's report that retail foreign exchange loans are being issued. This is a process that has been going on for several years, which is constantly generating conflict and debate between the government and the opposition, because you always say that you believe that the problem of foreign exchange lenders has been solved. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Vice President, We know that's not true. We know that, because the end-payment, which was the first step in the solution you have said many times, has done nothing but at an extremely favorable rate to allow the well-off credentials who were able to pay off their outstanding debts at the same time. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: How many of them were there?]] And yes, my honourable fellow Member, I do not think that we should deny the fact that we are already in dialogue with each other, and that it is worth looking into what percentage of the Members of Parliament of the previous term have made use of the possibility of repayment. I think it is perfectly justified with regard to the end-payment that it could not be used by an average consumer, a family in an average economic situation. The other half of the solution, which you are talking about as a success again, the forinting, with which you have done nothing else, and this is the real shame of the previous and present Hungarian parliaments, have done nothing but to preserve it, realize the loss of the exchange rate that they put in the necks of the unfortunate debtors at the same time as this decision. In this context, I think, of course, and this really goes a little beyond the Magyar Nemzeti Bank's report, that the European Court of Justice decision that was taken on 20 September, I would like to tell you all, gives me the opportunity to correct this quite serious mistake, but I will return to this later, not in this comment. [[10.40]] But the saddest thing is that it was the Hungarian National Bank that benefited from this forinting operation, which is worth noting. The forint that was supposed to save the debtors, who was the winner? Of course, my fellow Members, unfortunately the debtors were not the winners, the Hungarian National Bank was the winner of this forintation. From this profit margin, which was generated by the forinting, he founded his foundations, which, by the way, continued to function in the same way in 2017, the members of the board of trustees took their million-dollar salaries in the same way. I think that LMP's position on this issue is well known. The unfair discredits of foundation funds were also a despicable process, such as the elimination of state aid for housing savings banks this week, and it was submitted by the same representative as the previous one. We have said several times that the property at the foundation should be used precisely to help foreign exchange creditors, as many of my fellow Members have already said, and I am turning to Jobbik, because it was well represented there. [[Lőrinc Nacsa shows his interlinked fingers towards Antal Csárdi.]] You know, I would work with you, my dear fellow Fidesz, if it were important for you to help foreign exchange creditors, if it weren't important to you how much profit the Hungarian National Bank is pocketing in connection with the forinting. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel towards István Nagy Márton: What is so funny, Mr. Vice President? Are you having fun?]] but your primary question, my honourable fellow Member, is that I can help those unfortunate people who have been dragged into foreign exchange credit by the communication of your governments, when, with the end-payments, your fellow Member, your government, left the unfortunate debtors up to their necks, because we quickly pulled the rich out of trouble, because they are my friends. [[Nacsa Lőrinc points to Antal Csárdi.]] Yes, my fellow Member, I would work with you to work this out. And I only added that because there's obviously a dialogue, and it's going to be a new genre, the lead speakerial dialogue. So, these central bank foundations, I think they need to be abolished, because there's no need for them. We know that the President often refers to the fact that international central banks also have different trainings and programmes, but we are not questioning them here, but the way it is done and the process that you have done. There is no problem with studies and training, as LMP considers learning to be one of the best investments. But don't tell me from the central bank that the Western example of creating foundations where we appoint our good friends, acquaintances, and then through this we organize visualizations and publications so that you can report the solution. And don't tell me at all that any national bank official is telling me that the property stocked with wellness equipment that was designed for the Castle, my constituency, and that they only withdrew from it as a result of the scandal, was aimed at educating the Hungarian population and the economy. So I think we should respect each other so much that we don't try to convince each other with such false arguments. The Hungarian central bank constantly insists that the exchange rate of the forint is not important to him. But you know that's not true. The LMP has already said several times, in the context of last year's report we have also mentioned that the Hungarian National Bank has an important forint exchange rate; but unfortunately, this is in the sense that the exchange rate must be kept low, because you believe that the low exchange rate makes the country's economy competitive with low salaries. And by the way, they're not looking at it anymore because anyone who can do statistics can make people think anything about how much inflation that spins. Dear fellow Members, Mr. Vice President, You should know exactly, and believe me, if you were out on the street, you would know precisely that the price of basic food, but generally food, makes the situation of people living here more difficult with two figures of inflation, and unfortunately neither you nor the government are trying to help you. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-18-16	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Sándor Burány, the lead speaker of the Group of Dialogue. Here you go.
u2018-10-18-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Vice President, The Magyar Nemzeti Bank has a report ahead of us, but, of course, the debate is about the entire monetary policy, which is part of economic policy and, of course, the debate is also about the activities of the Hungarian National Bank or its leaders, although we would all be happy to do so, I think, together with me, if the latter should not be mentioned but must be said. Let us start with monetary affairs, financial processes and the situation of the forint, because that would be the most important and the starting point. The fact is that the Hungarian National Bank is playing poorly in this area. In 2010, when György Matolcsy, not as the President of the National Bank, but as a member of the government, began this position, his first working day, with the forint being strong, much stronger than he is now; thanks to the sacrifice and hard measures of an entire country, which managed to stabilise the forint during the financial crisis and the world crisis, and so against the euro, he was able to show a force against the Swiss franc at such a strong rate that I now wish. In recent years, however, you have ruined the forint, together with the Hungarian government and the Hungarian National Bank. The fact that the players change and change positions is the same in this respect, the common goal is the same: to achieve the otherwise existing political, family profit-making goals that are alien to the functioning of a true democracy, at the cost of weakening the forint. This forint weakening, of which you were active participants, and at the moment the forint, if not at a historic low point... because it has been worse, but it has also fallen to the time of your government, your national banking activity, so after 2010, the forint's exchange rate has fallen to such historical low points that it is quite simply something to do with, if you consider it important. But they don't think that you simply left the forint to its fate if you didn't intentionally weaken it. This weakening was won by the Hungarian National Bank, and the country lost, primarily by foreign exchange lenders. There are many things to say here, but the main problem of foreign exchange credentials is not the construction itself, not primarily the construction, although it is in it that the banks are really taking advantage of, but it is primarily the exchange rate that has put foreign exchange credentials and weak forints in a hopeless or at least very difficult situation. It is so not the construction itself that it was introduced by the first government of Viktor Orbán in the Hungarian Parliament, but they do not want to remember it so much recently. And the main reason why this foreign exchange credit scheme was popular was because, even at the time of Viktor Orbán's first government, and beyond that, the special staff policy was to dominate sectors that should otherwise be separated from each other through friendly relations and acquired positions. So it is not surprising that as a man of Mr Orbán Orbán Járai Zsigmond, he used a high rate of central bank interest in his own monetary decisions, which, by the way, was not justified by the state of the economy at the time, compared to which any other credit facility that was preferential could only be better. And that was the decisive reason why millions of people took up foreign exchange loans, because the very low interest rate applied there was true, with exchange rate risks, which unfortunately turned back on, was simply much more favourable than any other housing credit facility available on the market. By the way, the State's benefits were limited, but still existed. [[10.50]] So this is the basic situation. The fair solution would have been for the central bank to use this profit primarily to help those injured who were put in such an impossible position by weakening the forint. But that's not what happened. What happened to this money will happen later. For the time being, I would like to add a few points, because I do not want to go without saying that the vulnerability of forints and forints still exists. It is so true that, according to experts, if at least the communication of the Hungarian National Bank does not change, or the practice or exercise of interest rate increases does not change, no further weakening of the forint can be ruled out. Based on the information leaked, we know that there are different model calculations in the Hungarian National Bank for this purpose, and they run even less favourable rates in these model calculations than the current weak exchange rate. This is a weak forint threat for the country as a whole, because if, in the financial markets, the financial world, again, there is a crisis climate, regardless of Hungary, the forint will be one of the most vulnerable currencies in the region, as it is one of the most vulnerable currencies in Europe. I have just mentioned what the Hungarian National Bank is using this profits, the profits it pocketed from weakening the forint. He started a truly amazing, unique practice: he saves it for various foundations, and at these foundations, we can safely say that he is engaged in practices that violate the laws or which are bordering the law. It is against the law, as the European Central Bank itself has pointed out that in these foundations, holding large amounts of government bonds is the concept of illicit financing, because the budget is financed by the central bank itself through foundations, and this is illegal everywhere in the world. After a while and debate, the National Bank accepted the European Central Bank's warnings and replaced this portfolio, but to date, more than HUF 270 billion has been allocated to these foundations in some way to quote my fellow Members, where their public finances are being lost. Unfortunately, this is what we see from the practice. It is very regrettable that the National Bank of Hungary has been included in the circle that has been widely divining with Prime Minister Viktor Orbán for years, at least since 2010, namely that my brother, the world of relatives, the cross-employment, we help each other, the principle of "hand washing" prevails throughout the government administration, staff policy, managed public procurement, acquired assets, castle programs, almost everywhere. It is regrettable that the National Bank of Hungary has not remained an island in this process, but has become a part of this mister-brother world. Several of my fellow Members referred to it, but it is not possible to go without saying that the family of the President of the National Bank of Hungary is also involved in this kind of operation, since his cousin could deliver large quantities of water to the World Trade Bank of Hungary. The central bank's son owns a furniture factory, which, of course, is not a problem in itself, but has won several public procurements, and we now know the proven direction of domestic public procurement; there is no doubt that he won these public procurements not by accident, but because of the well-sounding family name. But I could also refer to the staff policy, since the President of the Hungarian National Bank also provided for the family of the Attorney General, at least to the extent that he first employed the wife of the Attorney General with a salary of approximately HUF 5 million a month; but of course, this process has not stopped here: a little later, though, to a much more modest extent, the daughter of the Attorney General was admitted to the Central Bank as a starting point of payment of half a million a month. We have said several times about immediate questions, interpellations, parliamentary speeches that we respect privacy. In fact, I personally take the view that if someone's marriage goes wrong, it is more honorable to break up this marriage than to live a lifetime of lies. I don't think at all that there's only one family model in this country that the Fidesz advertises, and I personally respect everyone's own family philosophy. I therefore have no objection to the fact that the President of the Hungarian National Bank has also become a new partner. I wish you all the happiness, and I'm telling you honestly. It's not the problem, it's the problem if it costs public money. It is not right to appoint your own partner, to appoint you as head of department, while such a class does not exist in the institution that you run. It is not okay to give a reduced employer loan to an average Hungarian citizen to buy a flat, while it is about his own pair. Everywhere in developed democracies, where such relationships are established, because one is just like that, none of us is armed against love, we never know who we will fall in love with, but the rules of the workplace apply in this regard, and throughout the educated Western world, it is common practice that if a lasting relationship is established within a particular institution and one of the actors in this lasting relationship is the head of the institution itself, this conflict of interest will be eliminated. That's not what we're talking about. Not only has this conflict of interest not been eliminated during the period I am talking about, but the partner of President Matolcsy, who has made a great deal of public money. In fact, not just your partner, through a foundation, let's just say for the sake of simplicity, so is your mother-in-law. Not to mention the conflicts of interest raised by the press, since the President of the Banking Association has reportedly hired the President of the Central Bank or rented real estate, while this is clearly incompatible, since the President of the Banking Association and the President of the Hungarian National Bank do not need to have any business relationship with each other, as their interests may conflict with each other. And if such liabilities are involved in these relations, then there is a possibility that this will result in a merger in the interests of the latter. It's not customary in the educated Western world either. Finally, allow me to refer to the esoteric circle. There's nothing wrong with believing in numerology. There are international examples. To tell you one thing, in China it is known that they are attracted to number 8, which is considered to be a lucky number. They're so attracted to number 8 that the Beijing Olympics were held in 2008. CHAPTER VIII It was opened at 8:8 p.m. Chinese time on the 8th of October to make the Olympics as lucky as possible. Of course, China, as we know, is not a democratic country in the Western sense, where the central imposition of numerology is not far from taste. But in Hungary, we belong to a cultural circle, where separation of church and state is a principle, where if a person has public authority, his own superstitions or religious beliefs should not be reflected in regulations or decisions. For this reason, it is completely incomprehensible to us that the President of the Central Bank's reprimand from number 8. Please contact your Chinese colleague with love on this matter. I can only understand why 8-9 of Szabadság tér should be removed, while it is the official address of the Hungarian National Bank, or why 8 of the numbered parking places is missing, and why it is reported that it is forbidden for colleagues to make eight-page submissions, according to the rules of common sense. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the independent.]] [[11.00]]
u2018-10-18-18	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I now give the floor to the first independent congressman to apply. Here comes Congresswoman Anett Bősz. You have the floor.
u2018-10-18-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Vice President, I am very sorry that György Matolcsy is no longer taking part in this debate, but I am pleased that we have the opportunity to speak to the Vice-President in person. You were just talking about the fact that in 2017 the forint was among the ten most stable currencies in the world. Dear Vice-President, please allow me to list today's winning numbers, although not in ascending numerical order: 322,11; 369,96; 278,64. That's what today costs a euro, an English pound and a dollar. [[Zsolt Gréczy applauds.]] If the President believes that he has nothing to do with today's figures in a given world, I think that Hungary is in very big trouble. But we are in even more trouble if the President is aware of what he has to do with these numbers, because at the end of the sequence I could stick 0.9 as a player, because that is the basic rate of the central bank, which has remained unchanged since May 25th, and that is what the decision of yesterday leaves it. Of course, I do not wish to place the weakening of the forint on the whole of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank, because as a result of global trends, the market of emerging countries was characterised by a decline in exchange rates, but let me note that the Romanian lei, Polish zloty and Czech krona weakened to a lesser extent than the forint, because there the national banks raised interest, compared to the Hungarian National Bank, and the surrounding countries were able to reduce the weakening of their currency. I am also very sorry that the President did not come to the meeting of the Committee on Budgets, because we could have discussed the possibility of raising interest rates and how the exchange rate of our Hungarian currency rushing towards 330 forints could be prevented or reduced at least. Unfortunately, he did not come because he claimed that this was an opposition committee, so he suspected political intent behind the invitation. He claimed that we sent out the invitation for political gain. I do not know why the two-thirds majority of the government on the committee did not give György Matolcsy some courage to report that if, when planning the budget, we counted EUR 312, why they would not prevent us from making the European currency more expensive by 6-10 percent. Perhaps, after the debate, we could discuss and compare the list of analysts who suggested at the time that the basic central bank interest rate should be raised with the list of those who thought it would be good. I know the government's position, of course, Zoltán Kovács said that there are speculative processes. It's a pity you didn't say that György Soros was behind this, and you would have practically admitted that you couldn't and didn't want to tell the Hungarian citizens why your money on the world market is at the moment 20 percent less than it was on 15 April 2010. In other words, why work practically every fifth forint is unnecessary. According to the government spokesperson, with such macro indicators, only some sort of speculational pressure can be behind the forint weakening. I think that the central bank policy facing world trends can be a little more credible explanation for what is happening, and besides, they have already sewed a lot of things around the neck of speculators and George Soros; they have had enough work to do, for example, to unleash refugee floods on the country. I find it difficult to imagine that they had time to weaken the forints, so please reconsider that position. I have very few questions. Why did they decide to act with Erdoğan again and blame the speculators on forint weakening, like the Turkish dictator, who also explained the weakening of their own currency, as opposed to what our fellow Central Europeans did by increasing the central bank base rate and thus helping to weaken their currency to a much lesser extent? Actually, I have one more question. Why is it not recognised that the indicators of the Hungarian macro-economic economy are strong, but, for example, the Czech and Polish economic indicators are much stronger, and they have been able to eliminate or mitigate at least the weakening of the domestic currency resulting from global trends? This admission would not be less embarrassing than the art purchase operation of the central bank, which is close to the $10 billion item anyway. I would like to thank you if Mr Vice President responds to these points. Thank you. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-10-18-20	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We will now continue our work with two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpat. Here you go.
u2018-10-18-21	Mr President, Dear House, I am pleased that another kind of debate can arise between us, such as the situation of those who have suffered foreign exchange credit. I would like to draw attention to the fact that we did not say that the MNB was involved in the looting of credit victims for a reason. I would also warn my fellow Member of the LMP that it was not a fidesz, but a KDNP lead speaker who, by the way, claimed, not once with his fellow Members, that the last two Fidesz governments had taken excellent intervention in the interests of the victims. I would like to argue with this, not to say that everything you said was a net lie, because, let's say, a price barrier on a voluntary basis could temporarily give some air to a relatively narrow layer. But it is quite clear that the forinting at the market rate has not only brought an amazing profit to the MNB, but indeed the Hungarian people, from hundreds of thousands of those affected, have taken their own assets, regrouped them with the help of Fidesz to the commercial banks against whom the government apparently declared a campaign. On the other hand, it allowed them to pass on a large part of the banking sector special tax and to transfer the financial transaction fee as a whole to all the consumers concerned. I would like to emphasise once again that all this has been admitted by the commercial banks concerned. The Government of Hungary has done nothing, and the Hungarian National Bank has also done nothing with new consumer protection powers. This raises the suspicion of an economic type of betrayal. Once again, I would like to ask you to have the courage, in the presence of laughter, gestures and pep talk, to press the button, either on the part of the MNB or on the part of the government, to express your opinion, to argue with opposition arguments and accusations. We don't have any illusions about such a debate, but I think it's an absolute unmanly attitude to be laughed at, commented, shown, spoken, but you don't have the courage to react within the framework of a clean, normal speech, which we can then reciprocate. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-18-22	Honourable Congressman, In my heart, I'd say now that, unfortunately, each faction owns it, so it's not a happy thing to live it as a senior president. But you will now have the opportunity to respond to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa. I'll give you the floor in a two-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-18-23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In his speech, Mr László Varju said that I said that the profits of the National Bank were the main thing here, and he did not think it was the profits, but the proper financial representation of Hungarian interests. I fully agree that the primary task of the National Bank is to enforce Hungarian national interest in the financial market. At the same time, I think that profit adds to this, which increases the margin of manoeuvre. I think it is not in the Hungarian interest that, in your time, the central bank has been negative for many years, and therefore many, many, many, many, many tens of billions of forints of taxpayers' money had to be transferred to cover the losses of the central bank. Therefore, I am not saying that the aim is primarily profit, but I think that profit or good result increases the room for manoeuvre, and it is certainly not against the interests of Hungary if the central bank positively closes its year. And I left it out of my speech as the lead speaker, because it is also 17 when the growth credit programme was completed in March 2017, so this is still somewhat linked to last year. I think that the activity of bringing nearly HUF 2800 billion into the Hungarian business sector, and thus also transferred to the investment plans of the families, was an incredibly large amount of money, such an incredible resource for Hungarian businesses, 40 thousand of the micro, small and medium-sized enterprises received this kind of funding. [[11.10]] This has obviously also resulted in an increase in budget revenue of nearly HUF 1000 billion, so if we want to be fair, this is also part of the year 2017. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-18-24	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Gréczy, DK Group, in two minutes. Here you go.
u2018-10-18-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Let me begin with a quote: The Prime Minister who, under his government, rises above 300 forints of the euro, cannot govern and must resign. Orbán said in 2008 between the same walls. I would like to point out that, since you have been ruling, we have been moving up and down from 300 in the last many years, so Viktor Orbán's definition is that Viktor Orbán cannot govern and neither can you. Another problem: we still don't know that when Péter Szijjártó and Lajos Kósa talked about the bankruptcy of the state, then who shorted out the many forints that resulted in the weakening of the forint exchange rate at that moment. The only thing I can think of from the 8th phobia is that there's a psychiatric problem here. It's really quite amazing what's going on here. And there is no need to deny that you have abandoned the foreign exchange credentials, the forint exchange rate and the forint that you have set, helped very few, but the constantly weakening forint, as my colleague Anett Bősz said, is looking at today's 322 forints with a lot of foreign currency credence, and he sees that the next month's repayment will certainly be higher than what has been expected. Let me put a brief statement on the words of my fellow Member, Mr Dániel. He welcomed the presentation of gold reserves, and I am more concerned about that. So I guess, the Netherlands, Sweden, Great Britain also has a significant gold reserve, I don't think it's impossible for them to buy gold blocks, but countries in crisis tend to show gold blocks in the news to reassure you not to worry, dear citizen, there's nothing so bad. We are sitting here in the middle of the Orbán package, foreign exchange loan problem, elimination of housing savings, paying health care, paying education, cheated pensioners, failing, deteriorating Hungarian economic situation, and I have to say that showing the gold blocks is more of a sign of crisis. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-10-18-26	Thank you. Dear Parliament, For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Here you go.
u2018-10-18-27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Joining the previous solo, we know that there is a crisis coming, because György Matolcsy has been visualizing for months that a crisis will threaten the world and, above all, Hungary, at the Economic Commission's meeting, we have also heard this, that this will now be the case, and we need to prepare for this period. The main reason why I asked the President to speak is because I would like to see Mr Nagy not react in a closed manner, because we are here for a debate. Mr. Vice President, If your boss is gone and doesn't deserve to argue with us, do me a favor and do me a favor. He won't respond in the closet, so that we can't say a single sentence at all, but now press a button, stand up and start arguing. We've asked a lot of questions in the last hour, two hours, so please let us respond to this, because we've been playing this game for years, and then you're gonna shut us down and tell us that we can't even say a single sentence to your speech at all. Mr. Vice President, bravery, press the button [[László Varju: Deep breaths!]] And then we'll answer your speech. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-10-18-28	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Since no one has applied for a further two-minute speech, normal speeches will now take place. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2018-10-18-29	Mr President, Dear House, I take it from the group dynamics that my fellow members of the Government and the MNB's official here are quite tired of what is happening in the Hungarian Parliament; sometimes it amuses them; also from the confused smile of Mr. Vice-President, which now draws slowly to an hour and a half in terms of continuity, I should conclude. It would be much more respectful on both sides, I think, because we would not be forced to be judged if they were involved in this debate. Mr. Vice President, that's your job. Before anyone here gets the wrong idea, you're not doing us any favors, so don't act like you're doing us a favor by being here instead of your boss. I understand the situation is unpleasant, and then you're gonna write down an answer that you can't respond to. The fact is, it would be your duty to take part in this debate. You're replacing your boss, who, by the way, left you in an unfair way, because you have an obligation to respond substantially to these issues in a way that allows a dialogue back and forth. I would also like to see the country's finance minister in this room on a proposal of this size, as we are talking very clearly about the fact that the MNB is a public limited company, its shares are owned by the state, and who represents the state as a shareholder? In such a case, I would expect all this from the Minister of Finance. So the thing is, we're talking about a truncated debate in the first place, and unfortunately we haven't had a debate. Of course, my KDNP colleague appreciates that he stood up and responded to the points that were raised. I could also argue with him about the extent to which the preservation of the MNB can be regarded as a priority, since I believe that the MNB has a core activity, it is recorded in a relatively precise manner in the legislation, but the fact that the MNB has turned almost exclusively to alternative methods and complementary activities in recent years and has increased their weight gives me strange conclusions. For example, the expansion of the real estate portfolio may not be the most appropriate method in the event that President Matolcsy is facing a crisis because, in crisis situations, precisely the housing portfolio will be the most difficult segment to mobilise and the largest depreciation segment in this regard, so it is not certain that this would be the best policy. You could talk about art, paintings, relatives. I myself do not like relatives, although I often experience this in the opposite direction, when government press staff may also use drones to film my family members in their own homes and harass our family members. There are vile, disgusting ways of using the media near the government. Obviously, I am not addressing my criticism of this to the Members here, as I assume that 90% of them know nothing about it, but it would reassure me if there was a certain ethical minimum between us, so, if it were the case, the pro-government press would not destroy my family members. I've never done that to anyone, so I have nothing to prove in this matter. Part of this code of ethics could be that if housekeeping in the Parliament of Hungary, within the walls of the much-awed building, prints out a debate and an agenda, everyone who should not be involved in the debate will have to participate in this. I would also like to say that, in addition to the expansion of the real estate portfolio, there are a number of oddities here, but what bothers me most is not the intention of the MNB to preserve or preserve value, and I miss it at least as much from its activities, otherwise, effective support for the expansion of conscious financial education. I know that you have tried, I know that many of you close to the government have not done this experiment at all, but it is quite certain that if we don't bring into basic education the presentation of financial knowledge of at least 1.0, then these financial crises will regenerate themselves and they will reappear in different forms in the Hungarian national economy. For this clear example, Mr Vice-President, I suggest to your attention that a secondary industry has been created to re-steal the victims of foreign currency credit, as there are a lot of decent rights defenders, civil society, life protection organisations, alternative media workers and lawyers, and there are also companies here who, with another 30-40-60-80 thousand forints, are drawing these unfortunate people down with various promises to the right, and the fact is that most of the time this has remained without consequences. In such a case, a fair consumer protection system should intervene, sanction secondary looting of people who are already in difficulty. Unfortunately, the executive industry, because we are talking about an industry, can also do so without consumer abuse. I go further: the notary profession also continues to commit abuses which are of consumer concern, so that, at least on the basis of the consumer protection powers assigned to the MNB, it could and should be used as a means of raising awareness. In many cases, notary documents are signed, which appear in documents that the legality and real nature of the underlying processes has been examined by the signatory concerned, while in reality this has not happened. Every participant knows that, the government knows that, but nothing happens. [[11.20]] I would also like to say that the overall exchange rate gains that the MNB has realised over the years would indeed be better off if it were to be paid into the budget on a compulsory basis, or, say, Parliament could decide what to do with it. Even in these circumstances, Parliament's decision would make more sense, because if the two-thirds majority decided not to pay this amount into the budget, it would be worth a beacon in the night, it would tell a great deal about the government's true intentions. I would, of course, be more relaxed if these amounts were included in the budget, I would put forward a proposal again and again for the establishment of a compensation fund, where these huge amounts could be channeled into, the social disaster that has emerged in Hungary, or at least by means of counterintelligence, the original state could be approached as much as possible. Obviously, broken families, sleepless nights, can't be replaced, returned, not to mention suicides. But I have to say, the consumer disaster that has arisen, and not only in this segment, is now systemic, and I also feel the responsibility of the MNB. And if you're going to have problems with consumer protection, allow me a referral as a close-up: I'm amazed that after the government plowed the state foot of the housing savings market in two days, it's already created a substitute form that it originally only identified as a competitor two years ago, I'm thinking of NOK, so the housing lottery, the Fidesz pilot game, which was brought through the House as a kind of competitor of housing savings. Now the other competitor has been killed, so the house savings itself, leaving the Rogán Antal flat lotteries with 30 percent state aid on this market. And I would like to say that from a consumer point of view, I am more than concerned that it is the possible organisers here who are experienced in organizing already banned consumer groups. After all, the sign says that it is essentially described as a taxicat who can run such communities, and according to the description, the organisers of the already banned consumer groups can expect a serious career in the Fidesz flat lotteries linked to Antal Rogán. The 30 percent state support for this, my fellow Members, why is it preserved? Somebody enlighten me. I am very interested that if Hungarian young people were to lose tens of billions of forints from the Hungarian future, then why could the state support of the housing lotteries linked to Antal Rogán remain? Once again, a form of voluntary payment for such a narrow circle, why do you support it with 30% support? I can't say that they spent more money on government communication in the previous year than they are now, referring to their various problems, losing Hungarian young people the LTP support for 30 percent of the state's foot, but we see dozens of problems from a consumer point of view. We see that since the MNB has had various consumer protection powers, this whole system has been in a catastrophic situation. Not only because the Fidesz government has abolished even the separate Committee on Consumer Protection, it has integrated this into the Economic Committee on Consumer Protection, where consumer protection issues are very, very rarely mentioned, but also because their approach clearly shows that although there are areas of cosmetics, I have been very supportive of, for example, narrowing the possibility of product presentations, but there are still displays of goods that fool older people, just a little bit different. So the government did not want to listen to the full ban on these, nor did they want to hear the opposition speeches on this. If a Member stands up here and explains to me what national significance and added value the display of goods has in this form, I will applaud it. It is likely that such a speech will not take place today. I would like to call on Mr Vice-President to clarify why, in the light of your consumer rights and opportunities, they are not taking any meaningful action in this area, why they are acting as if it were a twenty-tier complementary activity, while other, more marginal, complementary activities are being boosted, whether for the purchase of art or paintings, more energy, more time than for the revision of the entire consumer protection tool system. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-18-30	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-18-31	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr Kárpát, my fellow Member, mentioned that I spoke about preservation and value creation, and that it was also about alternative roads or about unconventional financial and other policies. Mr President, you would be right if the central bank did not carry out the three core activities laid down by law: price stability, financial stability and support for the government's economic policy. I have said this several times; inflation is the first or most important one in price stability. The financial stability is that we are now among the far less vulnerable and vulnerable countries, and this includes the basic interest rate reduction that Anett Bősz criticized. I think that this is helping Hungarian families and Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises in this situation right now. Thus, the fact that the base rate is historically low, in 1924 has not been so low since the establishment of the central bank, we consider this to be an important and welcome step that should be maintained as long as possible. And to support the government's economic policy, whether we are thinking of the growth credit programme or other instruments that the National Bank has been using in the past, we can say that it can and can and can be used for other methods, which you call alternative, because its three core activities are in order. It keeps inflation within the target band, there are constantly improving figures in financial stability, and economic policy and the budget are on a sustainable path, and the government's economic policy and support for families and small and medium-sized enterprises are supported by the central bank with its own instruments. And that's what the value-creating, safe deposit box might be able to say: plus activity that you called alternative. I think that it is wrong to attack this because there is nothing wrong with the three core activities and the objectives set by the law are basically met. In fact, the central bank is also producing a positive result, which gives it the leeway to apply such solutions. I think that I said the financial awareness of young people in my speech as the lead speaker, there is no debate between us, I think it is absolutely important, and I also said the lack of cash, which I did not say we have achieved in it, because you criticized it, but I said that the GIRO system that we expect results from will be introduced next year. It's a financial IT innovation that might lead us here. In addition to the three tasks laid down by law, in addition to the alternative value-added things, I indicated these three areas in my keynote speech. I also asked the central bank to be able to cooperate on this further, because our group association supports these, the introduction of cash savings, cash-free, reduction, innovation financial IT solutions and the further strengthening of young people's financial awareness, new methods, new learning systems, the introduction of new materials. I have just formulated these three words, and we totally agree with that, and I think that I did not say that there was a result in cash use, but that I think that we are on the right track, because we can see the milestones from which we are looking for results. Next year, when we're back here and we're seeing those numbers, or two years from now, when we're going to be talking about the report of the 19th, we're hoping that from this point of view we can argue whether the new system, the GIRO system, has achieved results and has fulfilled its expectations. We believe that, yes, immediate payment and the IT and financial development that will enable it will fulfill the expectations attached to it. So we think that they are extremely important, and it is extremely important that we achieve them, but in addition to them, and we are talking about it now, because that is what the report is about, the fund has three tasks to work well. And what we see is that it's working right now. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-18-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman László Varju, DK.
u2018-10-18-33	Thank you very much. Then let's continue to think about what the Hungarian National Bank could really do. I think that we can list a lot of things, that you can do this, and you can also do that, because if you want, the Hungarian National Bank has money for it. But let's go back to the fact that this is not the task of the Hungarian National Bank. He must comply primarily with the statutory obligation, and this law has been amended in such a way that, if there is any result of the operation, that result must be paid into the budget. If you want to take a serious step to really happen, an event that will improve the operation and activity of the Hungarian National Bank, and, by the way, it can mean a good thing for the Hungarian people, then we will jointly initiate the change of this law, and the surplus of the thousand billion HUF generated by the Hungarian National Bank between 2013 and 17 will have to be paid here, in the Hungarian budget, and in the debate on the Hungarian budget, we will discuss what are the most important areas for which this can be used. [[11.30]] Only in today's debate have you heard three things for sure, and among them we highlight the problems affecting foreign exchange lenders, which we refer to as a problem here and to them as family dramas. You could have done something about it, but you didn't do anything. Their pretense measures have not led to results, but have created a worse situation, while you can clearly do so, and yet you do not. Therefore, let there be an amendment in which the Hungarian National Bank does not swallow this result, but pays it into the Hungarian budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-10-18-34	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member of the Jobbik Group.
u2018-10-18-35	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow members of the Government to the fact that if there is a surplus in the MNB, so there is money left, there is money for the activities I call alternative, not only for the purchase of art and painting, but for the whole portfolio expansion, this raises the suspicion that the MNB will certainly appreciate if it has a surplus, so it will have profit goals; I say that there are some. It would be much fairer to pay all this into the budget, if there was any surplus, and especially to give back the money of foreign exchange lenders. This can be said without any demagogism, that part of the money of foreign exchange lenders is parked at the Hungarian National Bank. In terms of inflation, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the low figures are always impressive to me, but it is worth looking at them in a system. For example, the deterioration of the forint exchange rate takes several times over customs from foreign exchange-credited families who might have been helped by a 1-2 percentage point inflation reduction. But the decline in inflation cannot be found here, but rather the level of inflation. I'd like to remind you that the standard deviation here is very large. So if you look at the inflation of the typical livestock basket of basic foods, I think you will find a two-digit amount. It is therefore worth looking at the full picture in the light of these data, looking at typical Hungarian life situations, and also taking into account the fact that not only painting and art-buying companies, entrepreneurs and individuals want to prevail on the Hungarian market, but also simple, typical Hungarian families with thousands of difficulties. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-18-36	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Varga, MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-18-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to refer to two moments that have been said here in the last few minutes. One is the profits of the central bank and the resources from the exchange rate gains, a significant part of which has been put into foundations by the central bank and is constantly causing a series of public scandals by what kind of fidesz friends it pays here and what luxury investments and luxury spendings it devotes to. It's not right. Therefore, in the previous two speeches, I think it is absolutely necessary to support it, and we have repeatedly initiated that this type of profit should be paid into the budget by the central bank, which should be verifiable and transparent in order to spend it. I think this is a very important initiative. It would have been a more useful place for hundreds of billion forints, more than 200 billion forints in one year, for example, to help foreign exchange lenders, as one of the important foundations of profits, the biggest basis of which was that the central bank took out exchange rate gains. As the situation of foreign exchange lenders became worse, the situation of the MNB became so much better and the foundations had more resources. Your reaction to this was, by the way, that for many of the time, my proposal to assist and stop evictions, which the Parliament could have discussed on Monday, as it is now, was rejected by no representative of the government, and this was voted down on Tuesday. And to my fellow KDNP Member, I would say that he has talked a lot about young people's financial awareness. I would like to say that one of these products, which provided housing savings to hundreds of thousands of young Hungarians, was destroyed here by you on Tuesday, and this legislation has already been announced in a rush. Still, I would have liked your opinion here at the National Assembly, but then no one from KDNP spoke. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-10-18-38	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group.
u2018-10-18-39	Thank you very much. Let's get this straight. The stockpiling of profits is not the primary and any purpose of the central bank. But it cost taxpayers money to keep filling the holes left by the then central bank management during the socialist period. I think it is just wrong for the budget that if the central bank is not able to manage itself responsibly, and it is necessary to bring it to Parliament again and again, year after year, that once 30, once 40, once 20, once 60 billion holes should be plugged into the central bank, and this will be taken away from the Hungarian budget, which can be used for any purpose that you have defined or which would otherwise be more important and useful.In 2016, the central bank paid HUF 50 billion into the Hungarian budget, from which wage-raising programmes were implemented. Moreover, as a result of the operation of the central bank, both the growth credit programme and the economic recovery programmes have benefited small and medium-sized enterprises, thus benefiting Hungarian families and the budget has generated additional revenue. So it is not precisely that the National Bank would use all kinds of tax forints for its operation, but will provide additional resources to the budget and the economy as a result of its effective policy. Therefore, it is important not to profit, Dániel Z. Carpathian said that profit would be his primary goal or profit accumulation would be some kind of primary goal. It's not like that at all. But at least this gives stability, and we do not need to go over and over again, as in the socialist period, to the Hungarian taxpayers to fill the various holes for very large amounts. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-18-40	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will be able to give the floor to the two-minute speakers in the next round. On the other hand, Mr László Varga, MSZP asked for an opportunity to speak in a normal time frame. You have the floor.
u2018-10-18-41	Thank you, Mr. President. I pressed both buttons, and I was like, "Whatever comes first?" But I would obviously like to respond very briefly to what has been said in the debate. Here I heard the question of exchange rate gains, and of central bank profits. I think the story is infinitely simple. Here was several hundred billion forints, which was clearly generated as a profit at the central bank because the forint was weak. This, by the way, is a huge tragedy for hundreds of thousands of people, because their currency loan payments have increased. You have preserved this state with a political decision, leaving this enormous burden on them. I'm just saying that there could have been a consensus in this, but you refused to use this exchange rate gain to help foreign exchange creditors, or to pursue an exchange rate policy that does not increase their burden in this way. They should have chosen one of them, they didn't choose any of them. Instead, the central bank's funds are often spent on luxurious expenditures and payment of fidesz buddies and in concreto crap. I can't describe it any more than I can, but I can tell you in particular. Once again, I would like to point out, briefly, because I have not been able to answer this in any way, that if we want to have a conscious financial attitude on the part of citizens, we want to increase their financial awareness, especially with regard to young people, then I do not know why we had to destroy the system that most people used, more than a million such contracts were concluded. What I see is that part of the care that has been taken care of... [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Mr. President, I wasn't doing two minutes, I was doing normal.
u2018-10-18-42	I'm sorry, I'll track him down. He's only in there for two minutes, so I signaled. Here you go. [[11.40]]
u2018-10-18-43	Yeah, all right, I'm gonna push it out, thank you, Mr. President. So the fact that they were already around twenty years old, so the first ones, first those who were in work, who were still ahead of family formation, were able to put aside and received state aid for this, this was very important for self-care, it strengthened this awareness in a lot of people, and it was possible to use these housing savings very widely. If you had any problems with the operation of the system, you should have done something about it. Then we couldn't discuss it on Tuesday, so I'd like to say it again. I didn't understand why we couldn't argue at the time, why they didn't press a button, why they didn't speak up, and then by evening it could be clear to all of us that it was because they were so interested in breaking up this system. For what reason? Antal Rogán's name was mentioned here. I think that there are legitimate questions here in opposition representatives, but the reasons for this are increasingly clear that László Kövér signed in lightning steps, and then János Áder published this law with extreme speed in the Hungarian Gazette and the legislation was published. It is unprecedented, and it is incredibly detrimental to legal certainty, what happened on Tuesday. I would be very interested to hear the opinion of the representative of the Central Bank here on the extent to which these are, in your view, damages from the point of view of the Hungarian financial consciousness, and, by the way, what proposals do you have to address these damages. Thank you.
u2018-10-18-44	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Gréczy, DK. Here you go.
u2018-10-18-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would just like to draw attention to such a small, but not insignificant, nuance as to the circumstances under which we are discussing the performance of the central bank at all. What would you, fellow Members of the Fidesz and KDNP have done if, say, the Socialist-Free Democratic Government had appointed its own minister as the head of an independent institution? That's a problem right now. Another problem is that there is virtually no opposition party that has not filed a criminal complaint against György Matolcsy, and these reports have eventually been blocked without any substantive investigation because the attorney general is called Péter Polt, and the president of the Central Bank is currently applying a relative of the Chief Prosecutor in his own office. So everything is very clear and very simple, no one can expect anything from others, the President of the Central Bank can be sure that there will be no proceedings against it, since he employs the relative of the Attorney General, and the Attorney General can be sure that the family will be fine, since the central bank, which is rich in material assets, employs his relative. There's no procedure, and it's still possible to steal, as you've done so far. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-18-46	Dear Parliament, For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Here you go.
u2018-10-18-47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll be brief. I would say to my fellow Member, Nacsa, that they have been ruling for the eighth year, Congressman, I think that the last eight years and the pointing back are just for you. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-18-48	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the joint general debate is closed. I will ask Vice-President Martin the Great if he wishes to answer. [[A statement from the opposition parties: Don't speak! It's no use. István Márton Nagy: Only closing! Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: God forbid!]] My fellow Members, please pay attention. No further comments were received, and the joint general debate is closed. You now have the opportunity to speak to Mr Vice-President if you wish to respond to what has been said.
u2018-10-18-49	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Members, Let me start by saying it's not awkward to sit here. So even though you think it's unpleasant, delicate, and not forward-looking for us, it's a misconception. [[László Varju: For nine million a month... Lőrinc Nacsa: Listen to it! The president's ringing the bell.]] For me... I am learning a great deal from what some politicians and MEPs in this House think about the operation of the MNB, and in this respect they give us ammunition on how to think and what to prepare for what you think. However, perhaps we, through the media, try to provide these answers in professional articles and see if these answers can be accepted. I will also answer some specific questions and professional questions, but before I go into professional questions, I would like to put some things in their place, because I think that everyone has the right to know the truth and how reality actually turns out. First of all, let's start with the operation of the foundations. Every year you bring up the operation of the foundations, every year you question them and the rest. What I can tell you is that there's a SAO audit that looked into both the MNB and the foundations. [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] And he found everything all right. [[Zsolt Gréczy: By working there as a relative of the Attorney General! The president's ringing the bell.]] In this respect, I ask that you respect that. The other thing you have to respect is that I listened to you and I didn't say anything. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: That's the problem, he didn't say anything!]] So if you'll just listen to me, please.
u2018-10-18-50	Excuse me, Mr. Vice President. I'm sorry, it's not polite to disturb you. I think you should listen to the answers, because we can't do the dialogue, so we can't move forward. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: No dialogue! Interventions from opposition parties.]] I don't recall Mr. Vice President ever interfering with your speech. So please, keep this to yourself.
u2018-10-18-51	Thank you very much. Then I'd like to continue. Therefore, in the case of the sale of the MKB: the sale of the MKB is brought up in the same way every time, and the sale of the MKB as part of the resolution was supervised by the Union and the Union's competitive part, and the Union found everything in order for the sale. [[Zsolt Gréczy: That ugly Brussels!]] and also complied with domestic laws. Therefore, when we say that the sale of MKB is successful, we are not the only ones who say that it is successful. As far as the case between Bárándy and Matolcsy is concerned, excuse me, Congresswoman, the court did not say that Bárándy is right, but said that it falls within the scope of free expression for Bárándy, and that he can lie and lie. So it's a political opinion. So I think that everyone, even voters, has the right to know exactly what the judgment of the court is. Please look into it. Finally, the specific non-professional comment: please do not offend the employees of the MNB, the 1400 employees, by not having the right to borrow an MNB apartment. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: The problem is not that, but that all other people have no right!]] You have no right to use this support. Because what's the alternative is that commercial banks take on this loan, and then their problem is that they depend on OTP, Raiffeisen, Erste or UniCredit, because that's where the MNB keeps their accounts, and there's a conflict of interest. So it's okay. Thank you very much. As far as professional contributions are concerned, let us start by referring to exchange rate, interest and inflation. Several Members have asked me this, and I think it is very important to mention some things here. For the central bank, the primary objective is inflation and must respond to inflation in terms of interest. The exchange rate may affect inflation, but inflation actually shows that we need to react. At present, inflation is 3.6 per cent; core, i.e. core inflation, which captures sustainable processes, is 2.4 per cent, so the inflation indicator that captures sustainable processes is below the target of 3 per cent. Thus, the central bank continues to maintain these loose monetary conditions it has developed in recent years. This is not only about the base rate of 0.9 per cent, but also about the inter-bank interest rate, which determines the price of the loans, which is close to 0 per cent at 15 basis points. And when it comes to why others are taking action and the Hungarian National Bank is going against other central banks around the world, I would like to ask you about which central banks you are talking about. [[11.50]] Yes, the Fed is raising now because the American economy is in a completely different cycle. The ECB raises? Will the European Central Bank raise? It's not lifting. At the moment, the market is charging an increase in interest rates in November 2019, and the ECB's decision-makers are just saying that this can take place at the end of summer. So what are we talking about when someone is confronted by the Hungarian National Bank? The other is that two countries in our region, and perhaps a little bit wrong about this, have raised interest rates in one Member, the Czech Republic and Romania, but there is no other country, but inflation as a traditional primary objective for central banks, much higher, 5 percent in Romania 5 percent! And in the Czech Republic, it's about 4 percent. So they are raising interest because of inflation, not to protect their exchange rates, and it is better for everyone to see this clearly. As far as the exchange rate is concerned, it's okay that they're trying to point fingers at someone, and in this case it's the MNB, but the MNB doesn't have an MNB responsible for the exchange rate. It is responsible for inflation, the exchange rate is indeed shaped by the market, depending on demand and supply. In this respect, if we return to the summer, we must tell you that Hungary was not the only country in the summer to have undergone a developing market turbulence, but a very, very large number of countries, but Hungary was the only country with the least outflow of capital compared to January 2018, so Hungary had the strongest ability to maintain capital. In Romania, the Czech Republic or Poland, much more capital has flowed out of the sovereign debt market. In this respect, Hungary's vulnerability has indeed decreased significantly, and we are indeed in the middle. Excuse me, it's not a subjective ranking that we're in the middle field, it's an objective ranking. The vulnerability indicators of the 20 largest investment banks, if collected, we are 15 out of 30 developing market countries as the most vulnerable country, this is the middlefield, the 16th. Poland, but we also prevent Romania and the Czech Republic. In this respect, the country has made great progress, and I think that this can be seen as a joint success of the government and the Hungarian National Bank. Next, I'd like to say a few words about cash. In Hungary, cash stocks are almost 6,000 billion, and the population has 5200 billion. Half of this is holding cash, the other half is transactional, so that's what's spinning. According to our investigation, a significant portion of the holding cash is legal. Now we don't talk about a black economy anymore, that's why there's cash. Please believe that the MNB, as a cash vendor, has information about this and can measure where the cash is, who has it, and where it's coming out. The holding of property is once again in the form of legal cash, and it is very, very important that the accumulation of cash is not only because there are, there were compensations, but also because, of course, at a zero rate rate, this appears in every country. At the same time, the saving willingness of Hungarian households is the highest in the region, 6 percent in terms of GDP per year, and the stock, which is more than HUF 42 000 billion, more than 100 percent of GDP, is also the largest in the region. So what you can see is that Hungarian households are wealthy, the structure of household savings could, of course, be better used, and we think that there are steps to be taken by the government. Result. The Hungarian National Bank and I will say this again has no result, the exchange rate realization item plays a smaller and smaller role in the result, and interest income or the increasing interest expenditure plays an increasing role. Now the net interest rate result of the central bank is already positive, above 10 billion, which also determines the future. So the Hungarian central bank will get an increasing income from interest. I always say to the President of the Central Bank, if monetary policy is good, then the Hungarian National Bank will always be successful. It's not a goal, but it's a side effect of how the central bank works. Finally or as the last-to-last point: foreign exchange credit, foreign exchange credit. When it comes to what happens to the exchange rate in the summer and what happens to the exchange rate in front of it, I would like to stress that there is no foreign currency lending today. There has been no foreign exchange credit in this country since 7 November 2014. [[Dr. László Varga intervenes.]] There is no currency loan in this country! And when they talk about what happened in 2014, they forget to say that this government has returned more than HUF 800 billion to households as a result of unilateral interest rate increases and a price barrier. The other, together with the MNB, is that because of the conversion that took place at the market rate, but they forget to tell us what happened afterwards; what happened next was that the Swiss central bank suspended its exchange rate threshold in mid-January 2015 and released the Swiss franc exchange rate when it appreciated, and it is calculated that if we had not converted the foreign currency loans, today their repayment would be more than 70 percent higher. If I had done the math, this would have meant more than HUF 2000 billion in extraterrestrials, and they would have forgotten to say that this extra burden of 2000 billion was released by the government and the central bank together. Please, if you don't believe this, count me in. Finally, the assessment of the National Bank. Yes, the National Bank is here every year, will be here every year, giving Parliament an account of its effectiveness. We think that at present the government, the majority of Parliament, is satisfied with the operation of the MNB, but what is also important is that, when the central bank is judged, there is a player who gives an opinion on the central bank, and perhaps this is also very important: the market, what the market thinks of the central bank, how credible it is. Please read the opinion of the investment banks about what they say about the monetary policy of the Hungarian National Bank and bring here texts that say that it is not good; because most of the market, the majority of the investment banks, say that the monetary policy of the Hungarian National Bank is good, and some investment banks say that the Hungarian National Bank is one of the most creative central banks in the development of monetary policy. So please, if you don't believe each other, believe at least big investment banks like Goldman Sachs, JP Morgan, what you think about how the Hungarian central bank works. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Bence of Turdai: What do people think?]]
u2018-10-18-52	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President, for your answers. Dear Parliament, I will ask Vice-President Sándor Hadházy, Vice-President of the Economic Committee, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate.
u2018-10-18-53	Mr President, yes, I would like to take this opportunity.
u2018-10-18-54	You have the floor, Mr. Vice President.
u2018-10-18-55	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, In the last few hours, there has been a debate about the activities and work of the Hungarian National Bank in 2017, and there would have been a debate if this had been discussed by this House, but I see that they have tried to bring issues here, issues that are not actually subject to it, not part of the agenda. I thank Vice-President for his very precise answers to questions of a professional nature. I will also try to recall a few questions from the debate. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát said in his speech that the Hungarian National Bank had no exchange rate target declared. Of course that's not true. [[Dr. László Varga: You just said it!]] [[12.00]] The very important objective of the Hungarian National Bank is to ensure price stability! [[Szabolcs Szabó: Price stability and exchange rates are two different things, do not confuse them.]] On the issue of inflation, it is very important to maintain inflation at an appropriate level, and it is very important that foreign exchange rates also develop positively, and it is very important that the Hungarian National Bank and the government set these issues as a common goal. I would like to draw attention to the fact that György Matolcsy will be chairing the Hungarian National Bank as of 4 March 2013, and the result of this work is that the Hungarian economy has received air and assistance that it had not received from the National Bank before, and a growth loan programme has been launched, under which Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises could obtain long-term zero-interest loans. This opportunity was provided through the Hungarian Development Bank and, of course, commercial banks were involved. This programme ended in March 2017, but this does not mean that this kind of option will not be available for Hungarian businesses in the future, as this role will be taken over by commercial banks in the future, and, yes, the decisive aim of the Hungarian National Bank is to ensure that this loan programme continues with very minimal amendments. At the meeting of the Economic Committee, it was also mentioned that there is a region in the country, this central region, which has also had a disadvantage in this regard in recent years. We have been promised that these growth credit schemes will be available in Budapest, the region of Pest county, in the central region as well. I consider it a very important issue that, given the country's external economic exposure, the structure of the country's public debt should continue to change, and this change has been an absolute positive trend in recent years. Loans with a very high interest rate with a bad maturity are typically denominated in foreign currency. The continuous conversion and replacement of this is one of the most important tasks of the Hungarian National Bank, and it has been very successful in this matter. It can now be said that the loans of the public debt are largely forint-based, predictable, and it is also very important that both the Hungarian population and Hungarian farmers have purchased significant amounts of bonds over the past period, which have enabled and accelerated the conversion of these bonds. Dear Parliament, I think that the Hungarian National Bank has also done a very successful job in the past year. I hope that in the future, it will continue to see the government's support for its objectives as one of its main tasks, thereby improving the country's economic situation. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-10-18-56	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the bill on the implementation of the single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority for 2017 will follow. Proposal submitted by the Committee on Budgets T/452. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Szűcs, rapporteur for the Committee on Budgets, rapporteur on the agenda. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-18-57	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Indeed, as you said in your introduction, this particular report is a bill that comes before this House because it is an independent institution such as the National Media Authority. As it does not have any other representation, the Budgetary Committee will submit both the accounts of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority and its budget for the following year on the basis of the house rules. Accordingly, in compliance with the legal requirements, he submitted the proposal to Parliament by 31 May, which was negotiated and submitted by the Committee on Budgets on 4 June with 8 votes in favour, with 2 abstentions. The strange thing about this bill is that the President, László Varju, could be the rapporteur for this, but, of course, I was given this because of the assignment of tasks. The main revenue and expenditure amount of the Communications Authority was HUF 35.3 billion under the adopted law in 2017. The revenue allocation for the operational support of the Media Council was achieved at HUF 173.4 million. This appropriation is intended to cover the remuneration of members, the expenses of experts and the amounts of co-regulatory staff which may be used for operational support. The outstanding group of operational revenues amounted to HUF 240.7 million, thus achieving a total of HUF 420.1 million, which was 93 percent of the initially planned amount. The budget expenditure of the Media Council amounts to HUF 410,3 million, showing 91 percent of the initial appropriations. Staff appropriations were made at 84 per cent of the initial appropriations and at 70 per cent of the employer's contributions and social contributions. The expenditure in rem amounts to HUF 237 million, which represents a 99 percent performance. The budget of the revenue and expenditure appropriations in the management of the Media Council shall comprise the revenue in respect of MTVA, which has been billed by the Media Council, but permanently. The revenue of the media service fee was HUF 783,4 million, which is 81 percent of the initial appropriations. The total frequency and support fee revenue was reached at HUF 98.7 million, which is 143 percent of the planned price. The penalty, fine and late payment interest were paid for HUF 45.8 million. Expenditure appropriations have been made up to 99 per cent overall, as in revenue appropriations. Finally, a few words about the closure of MTVA. In terms of revenues, budget revenues amounted to HUF 71.2 billion and commercial revenues amounted to HUF 8.7 billion in the adopted budget. The total revenue was 79.9 billion forints. The expenditure of MTVA can be divided into two large groups. One group of expenditure is the expenditure that MTVA does not use for content production activities, typically transfers to other organisations or distributes by tender. The sum of these amounts amounted to nearly HUF 7.8 billion in 2017. Another significant part of the expenditure is the scope of expenditure related to content production activities. These include expenditure on programming, broadcasting, personal expenditure, back office expenses for the operation of MTVA, as well as investments. These totalled HUF 82.5 billion. Dear House, I would like to conclude by saying that all four accounts were audited by an independent auditor, and in their report it was found that the accounts submitted provide a real and reliable picture of the management of the financial situation in 2017. In view of the above, and of the fact that NMHH has reported on professional matters to the Committee on Culture, I would like the proposal to be discussed and then adopted. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[12.10]]
u2018-10-18-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The representative of the Government indicated that he did not wish to present a position during the debate. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2018-10-18-59	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Fidesz fraction supports the National Media and Infocommunications Authority's 2017 closing bill. It is also important for us to emphasise that the National Media and Infocommunications Authority is an independent regulatory body. Its operations shall be covered by its own revenue and budgetary contribution. According to the Media Act, the Authority's single budget includes four different budgets. Thus, one is the budget of NMHH, the second is the budget of the Media Council, the third is the appropriations managed by the Media Council, and the fourth is the budget of the Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund, i.e. MTVA. We found that the president of the NMHH sent the draft law to the Parliament's Committee on Budgets by the deadline set by law, which decided to submit it at its meeting on 4 June 2018, as my colleague Lajos Szűcs just said. The draft closing accounts bill we are discussing now reports on the implementation of these four separate budgets. The total budget revenue and expenditure of the Authority under the 2017 Act amounted to HUF 35.3 billion. Budget revenues amounted to HUF 36.3 billion in 2017. This shows a 2.7 percent overachiever overall, with an income surplus of almost one billion forints. The Authority's budget allocation amounted to HUF 32.7 billion. This shows a saving of 7.5 per cent compared to the initial allocation. With the exception of one of the priority appropriations, these expenditure in rem was less year-end in each appropriation than the amount adopted by law. In the context of the implementation of the Media Council's operational budget for 2017, it can be seen that budget revenues were achieved at HUF 420.1 million, which is 93 percent of the initial appropriations. The budget expenditure of the Media Council amounts to HUF 410,3 million, showing the 90,7 per cent of the initial appropriations. The budget of the revenue and expenditure appropriations in the management of the Media Council shall comprise the revenue in respect of MTVA, which has been billed by the Media Council, but permanently. The revenue allocation was HUF 936,8 million, which is 89 percent of the initial appropriations. Expenditure appropriations, similar to revenue appropriations, totalled HUF 928,3 million. Ladies and gentlemen, All four accounts were audited by an independent auditor and in their report it was found that the accounts presented show a real and reliable picture of the management and financial situation in 2017. On this basis, as I stressed at the beginning of my speech, the Fidesz Group supports the proposed bill. I felt it was important to emphasise in my speech the figures concerning savings and savings, because, as is usually the case with this item on the agenda in the previous years, my fellow opposition Members have not so far held speeches, keynote speakers and other comments on the closing report submitted, but rather discuss various issues of media affairs that are not related to this law, so I think it is important to talk about what is contained in the proposal itself as a starting point. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-18-60	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Ádám Mirkóczki, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-18-61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Here, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai has already advanced what the opposition will talk about and will obviously take on various aspects of public media. I would like to stress that it is very difficult to separate the two on this issue. I understand that it is a close-out, but it is important to see in a close-out that this relentlessly brutal amount that public media receives, whether in 2018 or in next year's budget, is more than just estimates, but it is certainly more than the entire Hungarian media, and in this context it is necessary to examine and balance out what quality it can produce, what quality and what content it represents from the budget that consumes incredible billions of taxpayers. Therefore, if the opposition is going to include other aspects, I presume, as I plan to do, then it should not be appreciated that we are not only talking about numbers and auditing and auditing and much more, but we are talking about things at systemic level and in the context of it. But, of course, it can be done, and I myself will make the comments and criticisms that belong closely to the laid down and described material, and while we are at it, it would be good for someone to answer about the 46,6 billion-dollar residual frame that the NMHH is dealing with, when to know what it is actually using it for. Because about half of that, perhaps more than HUF 22 or 22 billion, we don't know what it's about, who's handling it, who's using it, and let's face it, 22 000 million forints is a fine way to put it. We are faced with brutal amounts: 95 billion in total budget expenditure, and if we compare ratings, for example, then I think we cannot really talk about efficient use or market-oriented use. Here it is necessary to state the facts that the NMHH essentially also provides the legal conditions for your pro-government propaganda to serve the brainwashing of millions of people in 0-24. It's the truth. There are many ways to appreciate it, many ways to approach it, but the point is this. Let's ask the basic questions for an NMHH: what is the Authority's primary task? Not only is it legal to ensure the operation and supervise the everyday life of its work, but it also has a lot of other described tasks, which you have declared. I don't want to go through all of this, but let us highlight, for example, the creation of fair competition. In the midst of today's media conditions, do you think there is a fair competition? Can everyone compete on equal terms in a tender or later, in the course of their operation, be it the small radio, urban television, any electronic press organ with equal conditions? Because on paper, this would be the job of the NMHH, which would be your duty to ensure these conditions. [[12.20]] It must ensure and express its task to comply with the law, which includes, in particular, public media. Is it possible to talk about law-abiding behaviour in the case of public media? Is it possible for them to talk about enforcing or enforcing the most unauthorized ground rules? Verified, balanced, objective information: is this true either for M1 or for Duna TV or for public radio or for any press organ under NMHH? Does it comply with this basic requirement that credible, objective, balanced information is provided? Do you know, I don't know, maybe a teenage child playing with the idea of journalism, if he wants to be, he already knows, even without studying and continuing professional studies, that there is a principle that the other party should listen to. It's not in public media, either, thanks to reality. You provide a system, a framework that is legally, especially financially, in which you can lie unscrupulously for 0-24 hours a day for many years. And when you cannot bypass your own laws, only a parliamentary election campaign that takes place every four years gives opposition speakers the opportunity in a five-minute time frame. For example, the opposition parties had five minutes in the M1 election programme to express their views, which they could not otherwise say for four years. Does this correspond to the level of credible, objective and balanced information? And look at the numbers you've written and put here, all with that kind of money. Is it okay to forge the news? And the people who commit these mischiefs, which would lead to a government failure in a country with a more prosperous historical development, even in Internal Africa. You're the people who do things like this, not only don't be held accountable, you're going straight up. Now I will not name names, and everyone knows what and who they are, but essentially your selection criteria are only the degree and quality of loyalty to Viktor Orbán. This is the only aspect of almost any professional status held by public media; I have now placed the professional in very, very many and large quotes. If we spend so much of the Hungarian taxpayers' money on this, will we assess the social needs, but rather the social damage that these press organisations are doing? Even today, I don't think we can appreciate the extent to which this entails. Do you refer to so much, unfortunately, to Christian-citizen ideas, conservative thinking and values at the level of their slogans, do this come back in everyday life on these channels? There are value-creating programs where you do. But the world of news, which fundamentally affects our daily lives, fundamentally affects the scene of public and political battles, what kind of filth do you guys pour into the country, by the way, on your own voters? How do they affect future generations? To what kind of political culture are young people, or the first voters, who are not yet of age, socialised? This is where the Hungarian public media was completely corrupted. Did anyone think, if necessary, to cry back at the work and professional level of the former ORTT bleeding from a thousand wounds, or at the media law that was passed before your media law during the Horn government? Well, compared to that, and the public publicity you managed to create a few years ago, you're the top professional, and you're the impeccable professional execution. When such a proposal is brought in, it is not possible to speak only of numbers, because the fundamental question is how and how we allow these relentless brutal sums to be used by any authority or institution. Your position is perfectly clear: well, it is used for propaganda, it is used for the dirtiest propaganda, where Members, mayors and candidates can be killed at a level that would no longer fit into a tabloid that doesn't give itself professionally. And they're spending billions on it! When discussing such a proposal, should it not be asked whether this merciless amount serves the purpose that should be served on paper in the law, either in the Fundamental Law or in accordance with the basic rules of the profession, objective, credible, balanced information? Shouldn't it be the other way around? If the Hungarian public media works at this level, if there is an authority that says that everything is okay here and provides additional increases to this, because the amount that is consumed in GDP by the total number of channels that are not justified at any level in terms of ratings is already measured, is it right to do so if we talk about numbers and say that everything is okay because it has been audited, auditors have looked at it, and the use is absolutely all right? Obviously not. Either be brave enough to say yes, or say yes, we need this, we imagined this world, it serves the brainwashing of society. 'Cause let's be honest, can you watch the news? I understand you're not gonna be the character killer for a few minutes, but honestly, with self-criticism, can you watch a news report? Can you watch a minute of any sporting event on the sports channel? Do you think they're real? I don't want to believe that that's how adult, responsible people act. Let's leave the political part of the story, of course, it's good to have nice news about us politically. But would you put your children, grandchildren, grandparents, out of this brainwashing room alone to get the information about reality, which is not true in the context of everyday life? This is a virtual reality, which will be exposed to people as a whole. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] That's something we should really think about for once. And it is not a question of what the proportion of government's appearance and government's information is. Of course, that's the most, that's the way it was under all the governments. That's not what anyone's arguing. No one even disputes the proportion of press events held by the governing parties. The problem is that no one else appears. That the elemental condition is not met that if there is a statement or there is a political press event, then there is always another side to it. In every country, society, political system, the minimum is that two positions or, where appropriate, more positions are displayed and conflicted, he only conveys as a public media, giving people the opportunity to obtain the basic information that comes from the fact that they have exercised their suffrage and sent X party, X faction or X representative to parliament. But this elemental condition, this zero step, which should not be discussed in the European Union in 2018, we do not have this zero condition. In essence, the Hungarian public media operates only when and only when an opposition representative is required to explain the alleged or real filth, regardless of party standing. And let's be honest, any party can be in that position any time we know in politics, a month, a year, two years may be a lot of time for him to be in opposition, and then he will experience the same in his own skin. [[12.30]] It is not that there is no room for criticism or opinions. In fact! That would be precisely the case, but not at a level where one of them has the last parentheses note, and in the case of the other political force, no professional program against you would appear even during the campaign period, when, by the way, it would have to comply with the legitimate obligation of that press organ. That's terrible. So when I'm arguing, when I'm criticizing, I'm talking about what was unthinkable ten years ago. Believe me, I'm telling you the truth. I was the editor-in-chief of rural radio, I worked in the market as a journalist, but we would never have dared to afford the standard that we didn't ask for the political power we didn't like, and on the other hand we didn't actually report what they said. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] We should think about that, and in light of that, we should decide on such amounts. Thank you very much. Excuse me, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-18-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go.
u2018-10-18-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Before I mention the closing report, I would like to reply to Congressman Mirkóczki: this is obviously your political opinion. [[Ádám Mirkóczki: This is not a political opinion, it is a fact, a statistical fact.]] This is a political opinion that we fully respect. The media law and the rules of the media authority require a balanced, credible service. If you see that this is not the case, go to the media authority. [[There's an uproar in the opposition benches.]] Every time. As long as you see that this doesn't happen, then turn around. By the way, I've been watching your speech, you're also working as a spokesperson, I know this part of it, I've been looking through your Facebook page, and every picture where you speak in front of a microphone, and you're not in Parliament, there's always a purple microphone, that's the public media microphone. I was just looking at it, but I don't know how public media works on the inside. I was just getting information from your Facebook page. I saw that I didn't rewind for years, but I saw that at every press conference, as a spokesperson for the second largest parliamentary faction, of course I saw the microphone and camera of the public media. It's just information from your Facebook page, I don't have any inside information on what case you're there and when there's no public media at your events. I don't know. You know better than I do. I see that he's at your events. LXXXII of 2010 amending certain laws governing media and communications to the National Media and Infocommunications Authority. Law No. 1 Article 9 of Act C of 2003 on electronic communications It was established as an autonomous administrative body with effect from 11 August 2010. The Authority shall manage the sound application of the rules governing the management of budgetary bodies and shall cover expenditure related to the performance of its tasks through its own revenue and budgetary contribution. We know that the authority acts as an independent regulatory body. Here, my fellow Member has already said that the President of the Media Authority has complied with his legal obligation to submit to the Parliament's committee responsible for budgetary matters by 15 September a proposal containing the closing account for the previous year and the budget for next year. This must be submitted to this House by 31 October prior to the reference year. Now, in the middle of October, we can negotiate. As is known, NMHH performs the regulatory and supervisory and media monitoring tasks of communications in Hungary. Its aim is the same in all areas: to develop and compete on the market, and to effectively represent the interests of consumers and users for the safe digital future of Hungary. The aim of the NMHH is to create and maintain in Hungary a reliable, predictable and undisturbed market environment in the infocommunication sector, with all decisions taken, initiatives or, where appropriate, sanctions, which will ensure the conditions of satisfactory operation for both service providers and users. We have talked about the numbers here many times, and she has also said it, and my colleague Lajos Szűcs has also told me the numbers for the closing report. I'd like to talk about one more thing that didn't say much. All four accounts were reviewed, examined and audited by independent auditors, so I wouldn't talk about it now. I would like to talk about the fact that budget revenues were achieved in 2017 at HUF 36.3 billion, so overall it represents a 2.7 percent overachievement and we can talk about an additional revenue of almost HUF 1 billion. What is the reason for this significant excess income? There are four main reasons behind this: the closing account shows HUF 1 billion in additional revenue. On the one hand, the administrative service fees were almost HUF 400 million higher, the frequency fees were over-achieved in the order of HUF 190 million, the supervisory fee was over-achieved at HUF 180 million, and the billed VAT is expected to pay another HUF 140 million in revenue overachievement. So this is the result of a 2.7 percent budget surplus. I think that the audit audits and the report show that here in the 2017 management of all four separate budgets, the appropriations of the NMHH, the Media Council, and the management and financial situation of MTVA have given us a real and reliable picture. This is shown by the closing accounts presented, which is why the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party supports it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-18-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Here you go, Congresswoman. You have the floor.
u2018-10-18-65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to begin by reacting to the last sentences of Mónika of the Danube. We are not yet there, Congresswoman, so that you can tell us what we should say within the walls of this Parliament. What we understand is that in the public media we have managed to achieve this in recent years, so that only what is good for you can be said, and what you think should be done on television, on radios, but, I'm sorry, we are not here yet, in this House. If you look at what it says about NMHH, if you enter that word, what Wikipedia brings out, then let me have a few sentences about what the Internet will be the first to flip. The Authority's operation was mainly criticised for the influence of the second and third Orbán governments after 2010. On this basis, the operation of the organisation and the appointment of the leaders were also defined by the Fidesz government according to its own needs by various legislation. As part of that, the members were elected with a mandate of nine years. By the way, this is unique in Europe. To the president, Annamária Szalai, near Fidesz, was made president, and then Monika Karas became president, who was also known as Árpád Habony's government advisor. While, even at the time of his appointment, he concluded a 3,6 million contract with the pro-government faction. The organization has made particular decisions to favour the media interests of those close to the government, while it has remained silent despite a number of steps that have been taken to prevent or eliminate government critical media seriously restricting the Hungarian media market. One symbolic sign of this is that as president, Karas himself avoids publicity and rarely gives interviews as president of the media authority. How the Hungarian media market was transformed in the post-2010 period, how the Fidesz-KDNP government shaped it in its own image, we have already said a lot here in the walls of Parliament. But let me tell you exactly about Tuesday, so I can tell you a few things. According to Erik Bánki, the state aid for housing savings was justified by the fact that banks have a profit of about HUF 60-70 billion in these contracts, and we spend about HUF 70 billion on Hungarian families annually on this form of support. Now, on Tuesday, you took this with record speed and wiped it down, closed it down. The Hungarian families were sorry for 70 billion forints. They felt sorry for families who wanted to renovate, say, only one bathroom, felt sorry for the Hungarian families, say, an extra 12-20 square meters room, perhaps regretting the purchase of a new apartment, and I could tell you a lot about what an average Hungarian family could achieve from this saving form. [[12.40]] You regretted spending 70 billion forints a year on Hungarian families on Tuesday, but you don't regret spending 91 billion forints next year and 70 billion forints on the public media that serves only your interests, which has been transformed into your image. We've seen how they intervened violently with government tools into the media world. We can talk about how the public media we see today has been transformed, right, you call it national and public media, and I would call it fidesz media if I wanted to describe it, because radio has nothing to do with the nation, if you look at it, neither the printed press nor television. We could see how they intervened in the commercial market, how Andy Vajna's interests were handed over, first into Lajos Simicska's interests, then after a certain G-day, and now these channels were in the hands of Lőrinc Mészáros, which were in the hands of Lajos Simicska, and how they transformed the county newspaper publishers and became only a fidesz interest. Basically, what you can say is, if you look at today's media market, with one or two exceptions, it's almost covered the whole country, and TV viewers, radio listeners and local readers can only hear what you think is right. I think, when it comes to balance, we can't talk about this with regard to media power in a long time. The media authority that lied to the national is now a fist of the Fidesz state party in suppressing, shutting down, grinding, delivering, and destroying the free press. There are many examples here. We can bring up the attack on Klubradio, the abolition of the People's Freedom, the expansion of the Origo and a lot of other things, how the radios have been transformed, their fidesz interests have been around, and I have just told you how the economic acquisition of all the Internet and printed media has taken place in recent years. If we look at what the law says, what task this authority should perform, then it says: "Checks and ensures freedom of the press within the framework of the media law and the law on freedom of the press and fundamental rules on media content. I know that we are not looking at the world through one pair of glasses, and we are not seeing the same world, and my fellow Members see a completely different Hungary than we do. What you want is for people not to see and perceive the reality that we see, but what you want. We see this every day; I wouldn't, by any chance, switch to the public media and listen to the radio. Because if we do this by accident and someone has high blood pressure, then I think it's going to skyrocket even more. Thank God my blood pressure is low, but if I'm trying to get a little excited, it's enough to turn on MTV or Duna TV, or one of those radios, even though there's no radio anymore, which could be listened to outside the Clubradio, which is at least critical of you. What is most terrible about this entire report is how much budget money you provide to the taxpayer for the operation of this authority by not performing its statutory task at all. You're only doing one job: you're in your best interest. And this is from tens of billions forints a year, and we see that every year we spend more on this task. I mean, it's just for your own good in public media, or I could put it like the fidesz media. This can be done, my fellow Members, we can say that we can come here every year and listen to this debate disguised as a report. I know it's not legally an obligation for the authorities to be in this time of year, but I wanted to... [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs: I can't!]] Then I can't. Thank you, Congressman, for correcting me for not being able to. That could be changed. We're talking about something very important. If we give 91 billion forints of this kind next year, I will not use a nasty indicator, a public authority who does not perform its legal tasks, I think that we could make a law to come in here, account for what money is being spent on at all. It would also be good for tax-paying citizens to know what this relentless amount of money is going to do. 91 billion forints next year. We know the answer: to your communication, to your promotion and to your interests. I think that such a report cannot be accepted in any way. I would say to my fellow Member, Mr Lajos Szűcs, that he should submit a legislative amendment so that the President of the Authority can come in, not just to the Committee on Budgets. If we are already paying this much money from the budget, with the Hungarian taxpayers' money, then we can at least get it to come into the walls of Parliament, and then we can talk, argue whether it is worth it for the taxpayers to spend that much money on a legally not-well-functioning organization or authority. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-10-18-66	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr Zsolt Gréczy. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-10-18-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Let's hear these numbers, billions of them, billions of them, that's all right, that's all right. The usual, as if we were sitting here in the Parliament in 1975, that's when these texts went. Meanwhile, I would like to indicate what Hungary, the Hungarian tax-paying citizens, spends on the so-called public media, many times quoted as public media, is now 30 billion forints more than you have just taken from the users of the house savings. So the person who wanted to save money and could have saved 20,000 forints a month should not increase, should not plan his future; it cost Hungarian taxpayers about 60 billion forints overall, and here we are talking about 90 billion, that we will be lining the public media with this. You often bang your boobs with what social authority you've been given, two-thirds, and so on. I would like to remind everyone of the OSCE report on the Hungarian elections, which stated that the role of public advertising and public media distorted the campaign, that the possibility of opposition parties in the campaign was not fair, so according to the OSCE report, the Hungarian parliamentary elections in 2018 were not fair. So that's how you guys bang your boobs. It is so easy to get a huge political majority, so to speak, that with the money stolen from Hungarian taxpayers, one of their businessmen, who owns a yacht the size of the Titanic, hasn't sunk yet; then, in political terms, he goes down and buys up the country dailys. Well, it's easy that way. If anyone in the country wants to buy the one piece of paper that's available, it's also the property of Lőrinc Mészáros. It is also easy that after a dispute that kills one of the national trade channels, one of your business friends, who otherwise travels in casinos and other projects supported by tax incentives, will also get it. I would add that from 90 billion forints, you maintain this public media in multiple quotes that is extremely low, almost undetectable. This is also extremely sad because a fair public media could also be made. What would you be doing in our place if we were in the government, and we put 90 billion in this, and you could never be on television? There's no reason there's a purple mic! 'Cause the purple mic's there, but it's not on the air. I'm sorry, don't argue that there was a staff of the so-called public television at the press conference when the news simply didn't get on the news. [[12.50]] I have not been a guest of the Hungarian Television or a guest of the Hungarian Radio since April. Five months ago, as a representative of the Parliament of the Republic of Hungary, I was not invited to the Hungarian Radio or the Hungarian Television for a moment. It's obviously a joke to make, ha ha, ha, ha, ha, that's a good thing, I need it, but think about how you'd react to that. The one-minute newscasts they're doing are net lies. Folk debauchery, and I would like to point out that there is no such thing as 50 times a day in a country these one-minute newscasts report nothing but the fact that Fidesz has initiated something, the non-existent migrants are coming and killing each other in the opposition. No opposition press conference has ever been on one-minute news. Never! Who stood up and told me; for example, the day before yesterday, I held a press conference on the fact that the CDC does not have the money to investigate the case of swine fever or the Nile epidemics, because they no longer have rubber gloves. While we're throwing $90 billion at lies, there's no rubber gloves. Is that what was on the public television news? It wasn't on the public television news, even though the voters of the Democratic Coalition are tax-paying citizens, and you are also using their money to run this lie factory, and the Democratic Coalition voters and their supporters would have the right to know in public television what the Democratic Coalition held a press conference on that day. And if you don't like it, you still have an obligation to report it, but of course you don't. A final forger has just been appointed for the head of Magyar Television. Dániel Papp has a final document that he is a forger. How can a figure who deliberately, knowingly lies information come to the head of Magyar Television? There will never be any investigation against the Hungarian Television or the Hungarian Radio's forgery. And it would also be nice to know that those so-called polythologists and so-called analysts are saying these craps for free on your radio and television, or we're paying them for this 90 billion to tell them these opposition-attacking nonsense, and they're telling them forty-seven times a day how fantastic Fidesz is, and they want to copy the Orbán government all over Europe. Where the Orbán government is just getting out of the European Union. There are other types of problems here. Commercial radios also do not include press conferences of opposition parties. The news of the MTI is being broadcast very quickly between two music stations, but for some reason in the news of the MTI, it was also included in the frequency agreement, if not otherwise, under subway, so that the press conferences of the opposition parties are not even accidentally spoken of. It was also under your control that the channels that you do not like were simply banned in hotels. There was a hotel visitor who went up there and said, "Yeah, he wants to watch Eks television." Well, you're not gonna do that here. That's because it's not fidesz. What kind of world is this? ! What kind of Hungary is this you're promoting here? We also have the right to look at all the contracts. This money you're spending on this is a hell of a lot. We would have the right to know who those programme makers are, whether there is a connection, whether there is a family connection, programme makers and fidesz, say, parliamentary representatives, politicians, municipal representatives and others. Are there any of these, say, fictitious contracts? In fact, Magyar TV doesn't really work, it doesn't produce, let's say, talent show or cultural show, but it does get some money, because it has to be in the stories around Fidesz. It is very important to see or at least understand that what you are doing is a danger to your life, because sooner or later it will set a precedent for what could happen if you are in opposition. Sooner or later, you'll end up in opposition, because it's the way of the world. The Roman Empire didn't stop forever, nor did the Soviet Union. And then imagine, there would be a government that says that from now on no press conference of Fidesz can be held in Magyar Television. What would you do? [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: There has been such a thing!]] Did it happen that Fidesz's press conference wasn't on Magyar Television? [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Don't lie, fellow Members, my fellow Members of Fidesz and KDNP. I'm asking you very nicely, don't lie. The news of Magyar Television is quite sad, but during the Gyurcsány government, István Pálffy was led by your future colleague. What are you talking about, what was hidden here? ! [[Intercoms from the benches of the ruling parties.]] István Pálffy, who was sitting here in Parliament, led the news of Magyar Television. Then he quickly sat between two vodkas in the benches of KDNP. [[Noise, interruptions in the pro-government benches.]] So I'd like to point out that this couldn't have happened then.
u2018-10-18-68	I apologize, Congressman. Such a qualification cannot be made, because no one has ever verified it; no court has said such a decision about István Pálffy, which is why I am obliged to warn you. This is not why I primarily warn you that I am not wasting your time, but because the debate is about the 2017 budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority. In nine minutes and 14 seconds, you didn't say a single sentence about this. You're talking about public media, not the media authority. I respectfully ask you to talk about the budget, the budget of the media authority. [[Interventions in opposition benches.]] Sándor Szabó Congressman, you'll be next. Then if I judge you that way, you can tell me all that. Thank you very much. Of course, we're in the same place at 9.14.
u2018-10-18-69	Of course, I spoke on the budget side, because I know a lot about the money we're spending on this. It is not my job to say that 14.7 percent and 23.6 percent, because nobody cares. What interests people is that if they turn on Magyar Television and Hungarian Radio, what news service they receive there. They do not receive fair and fair news. This story affects not only the Democratic Coalition, but all the other opposition parties. I would also like to add that I would not support such a story as, say, the Fidest in reverse, because I think it is a democratic ethos. That's how it's supposed to work under normal circumstances. And while we are at it, I must also say that one-sixteenth of the Sargentini report that you are debating also covers the situation of the media, and although the Sargentini report actually deals with refugees, inter alia, the occupation of the Hungarian media is one of two-thirds of the European Parliament's problems, more than two-thirds of which are Christian Democrats, Social Democrats, Green and Liberal Members who have told you that they are not democrats and have invaded the press. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-10-18-70	Thank you, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Dialogue Group is Mr Bence Tordai, who will speak from this platform. We'll wait for the congressman to rise to the stand. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-10-18-71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, We should now talk about the HUF 36 billion spent by the National Media and Infocommunications Authority. I would like to say a few words about how this money was spent, whether the objectives set by law should be met by the media authority. Obviously, we have assumptions about this, because when the former lawyer of the Fidesz faction is appointed to the president of the in principle independent media authority, I do not think it is necessary to prove that this is a fine example of Fidesz occupying the in principle independent institutions, the institutions which are supposed to be independent, which are supposed to be the power counterweight, will be filled with their own party soldiers. So there is another party soldier, the media authority led by Monika Karas, who spends 36 billion forints of taxpayers' money, among other things in theory, for purposes such as monitoring and ensuring freedom of the press or protecting the interests of users. [[13.00]] Let there be a quote at the beginning, a literal quote from a member of the Media Council, who said: "I would not say that there was no such thing as a subtle or less subtle way of telling from above what was the desired decision. That's only a problem when you don't agree with the decision. But we can see that when they disagree, they still vote cheerfully. So if you understand from above: from the Fidesz Center, the Media Council, the media authority, what decision needs to be made, then those decisions will be made in order. It is therefore possible that Fidesz' campaign against free media remained without any consequences in Hungary. It is therefore possible that Fidesz has made the public media a party media, the former public media, so it is possible that Andy Vajna and Lőrinc Mészáros buy up the media that was once independent, once commercial, market-based, considered successful or less successful based on the interest of readers, students and viewers, and made a unified unisono Fidesz propaganda. But not only is Fidesz-propaganda taking place from the Hungarian media, not only does Fidesz' messages dominate public spaces and influence voters' thinking, so that I do not say that they are brainwashed day after day by hour, but Russian propaganda activity can also be shown nicely in Hungary. Viktor Orbán and his system serve not only his own party interests, but also the interests of foreign powers.It is also in the interest of Vladimir Putin, as many independent analyses have shown point by point. It is quite clear how Russian messages, Russian narratives, come into the Hungarian pro-government or so-called public media. For example, when the Ukrainian revolution was reported and tried to be framed in such a way that it was a coup initiated by the American CIA or a so-called fascist coup, when we saw that it was the initiative of the free people who wanted to defend themselves against Russian interests. Either the same thing happened when it came to the shooting of the Malaysian passenger plane that this was done in accordance with Russian interests, Russian weapons, Russian money-paid separatists, or who knows if it was specifically by committing soldiers in Russian mercenaries or in Russian service, while a significant part of the Hungarian media, the so-called public media, said that the Russians had nothing to do with this and tried to pass on responsibility to the Western secret services and the Americans. Or in addition to the Fidesz interests, a significant part of the Hungarian media and the NMHH leave this, when such false news is being produced and printed continuously, that George Soros installs refugees with his own hands when Russia Today and other Putinist media quote Viktor Orbán and refer to each other in fake news production, it is more than self-discovery. But this close cooperation also shows that it turned out that the Putin TVs were shooting in the headquarters of MTVA, at least three times using the Hungarian so-called public building as their own. They may not have paid a penny for this, but as a branch of friendly cooperation between Orbán and Putin, Russian propagandaists travel here as if they were at home. This was only published by MTV after a lawsuit, and NMHH doesn't have a word about it. But when it comes to protecting the interests of users, they can be tough. For example, when Kornél Lánczos of Székesfehérvár was hit on the school radio of the High School by the fact that twice in a row Hungarian music was played in a series that was not the required amount of Hungarian music for students during breaks, well, there they can be tough, and the party's iron fist hits if the interests of users are at risk. Let us talk about another goal that should in principle be served by the media authority, to promote the development and maintenance of fair, effective competition. Let's see how impartial the media authority has been in these cases. For example, the ability of RTL Klub to buy a stake in the Central Media online portfolio was cleverly torpedoed, because if this had happened, they would have gained an ability to influence opinions that would jeopardise citizens' rights to diverse information. It doesn't compromise citizens' rights to diverse information when Lőrinc Mészáros buys 192 media, does it? So when Viktor Orbán's cashier buys not only the Népszabadság to close, but buys county newspapers, buys Echo TV, and buys millions of radios, TVs and newspapers that we may not even have heard about, but which function as the most important forums of the local public, then the media authority does not have a word to say about this, because this is exactly the order they have to fulfill. Let us go further, because it is also the task of the media authority to monitor the legal conduct of bodies and persons carrying out communications activities. Now, let's see, when there is a clear media violation, when a person is working with specifically forgery methods by the court, specifically the worst Stalinist methods used in the media, when people are blurred out, when reports are cut together to the contrary, the meaning of what happened in reality, when such a blood forger, Dániel Papp, can move forward in the ranks of MTVA, so that soon after his 2011 scandals, he became the head of the news editors, by 2014 his programme director, and now, by 2018, he is the CEO of MTVA. So when celebrities are running the public TV, there is no word of the Fidesz media authority who is absconding 36 billion forints. But the thing is, not only do they not enforce the laws, but they themselves do not follow them, I'm just looking at some news this year. In March 2018, the Data Protection Authority condemned the media authority in 11 different cases, because it is not possible to get to know the decisions, it is impossible to get to know the proposals on the basis of which, let us say, the allocation of frequencies is decided that, no, it always brings Andy Vajna's radios out of these competitions, and they refuse to present the documents that would make it clear that a completely biased, completely unprofessional decision is made over and over again, whenever such a decision is made, for the propaganda interests of Fidesz. At least they managed to do this in 11 cases. Or this February, when it turned out that Andy Vajna knew exactly what the Media Council's decision would be, obviously one of the players in the market would be informed of the decisions in advance by fact. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: 2017.]] No one's got a problem with that, and who's checking the checkers? No one controls the media authority, no matter how much they break the law, it is once again without consequences, as in the Fidesz regime it can remain virtually without any consequences that Fidesz criminal has committed. But let's go on to May this year, when we've been able to falsify listening data, convey misleading graphs, and the funny thing is that even the Fidesz-close companies were playing for this, and yet there's no consequence. The fact that an organisation that should, in principle, examine, measure, and demonstrate listening data is not capable of doing so, or, if it is able, deliberately conveys misleading, misleading data, yet again there is no consequence. For example, public advertising money is not spent by Fidesz's propaganda industry in proportion to ratings and listening. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Finally, another task that the Media Authority, the Media Council, should perform. They should take an initiative in developing media literacy and media awareness in Hungary. They obviously don't do that, but maybe in some clever, backhanded way, it works like a vaccine. Today in Hungary media literacy and media awareness are best shown by who can really read between the lines, who can interpret the news that is not important what is said, but what is important. This is a classic genre that people practice in dictatorships rather than democracies, but it seems that the Media Council and the media authority believe that the media awareness and media literacy of Hungarian people should be trained in such a way that they must somehow detect the worst possible virus, the continuous brainwashing of party propaganda. [[13.10]] He's training for this, and he's conditioning the Hungarian citizens, who, I'm reporting, are getting better and better at this task, they're seeing through the situation, so in the long run, no matter what the Media Council is, no matter how much public money buys and padded fidesz media ends, people will see, understand reality, and you will be finished. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-18-72	Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I would like to comment on the speaker's speech to the Member of Parliament as a notary of Parliament that he has criticized a person and a body with a rating that I believe is not Parliament's concern. [[Bence of Turda: I'm trying.]] It would be appropriate to apologize for that. Dear Parliament, We now have the first independent Member to speak. I give the floor to Congressman Szabó Szabolcs. Here you go.
u2018-10-18-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I also welcome the public authority's presence. I'm warning you, I'm obviously not going to be a big surprise to him that I'm not going to vote in favour of this proposal. There is a very simple reason for this. The reason is that we spend an awful lot of money, I think, for the wrong and the wrong reasons. That's what I'm going to talk about in my comment. You've heard the main numbers before, and if you'll excuse me, I wouldn't repeat it. The point is that in the budgets linked to the material, the submission we are discussing, which means NMHH, the Media Council, the Media Council of NMHH and MTVA, this is approximately HUF 115 billion on the revenue side, according to the original proposal. It's a lot of money, and I wouldn't even talk about modified appropriations right now. So we're talking about 115 billion forints, that's what we're talking about. Obviously, when you talk about spending this money, you look at what these authorities, organizations, NMHH, Media Council, MTVA have spent our money, my money, among other things, because this money not only produces, but also partly tax revenues and all kinds of procedural fees and concession fees and so on. That's what we know in detail. That is why I would like to talk about why I think the NMHH, the Media Council and MTVA are spending so much money for the wrong and wrong reasons. I'd like to start from the fact that it's very interesting to observe what the NMHH thinks of you. It is worth checking out the material available on your website. The NMHH strategy, I think, is the title of the material. Such a cloud of words summarizes what he thinks of himself: independence, team play, responsibility, partnership, credibility, transparency, professionalism, cooperation. So that's pretty much what this conglomerate thinks of you. Well, let's see if that's true, because I have a strong claim that this self-image is very untrue. The mirror in which you look at this is very distorted. In other words, in public procurement, they probably bought that mirror from the wrong company, they should be replaced. Probably got them this mirror, too, Garter or Ripper. Let's see it in a row. Independence claims to be Karas Monika and her office and related institutions. Well, all I can tell you is, let's look at what's going on in the public media. Several opposition representatives have also referred to the fact that they say everything about public media independence when Dániel Papp is appointed CEO by his predecessor, Mr Vaszily, and Echo TV. Well, in a normal world, it's not usually like that, either, you know, from public media to a market player that we know who a CEO belongs to. But the fact that a proven forgery man is appointed CEO is the bottom of everything. And I'm not just saying that. I was sued by MTVA. They filed a request because I dared to say that MTVA is lying, producing news, and forging news on a regular basis. We went to court, we gave our arguments. The court ruled that I was right to say that. You didn't say you had freedom of speech, and that's why I can say no. It is written in the judgment, and it is written in the judgment of the court of second instance. The reason I can tell you is that you forge, manufacture and explain news in public media, MTVA, because that's true. We proved it during the trial, so they rejected MTVA's action and this man, including Dániel Papp, is appointed CEO. From now on, I don't think it's necessary to prove that this is a biased public media or even to say that this is not a public media. It's public media, because that's what it's called from now on. Not to mention that his press chief for MTVA was Miklós Kobza, who had just been flunked up in the last few months, and as a press chief, he was a photographer of Viktor Orbán about the fact that he abused the opposition and expressed himself as a press chief of the MTVA press in an invaluable manner, but that is just a parentheses note. Here's the team game. Undoubtedly, they're very good at teaming up with the Fides. Well, we know that the Karas Law Office had a contract with the Fidesz fraction, including earlier, and the law firm represented the Hungarian nation, News TV, even before G-day, of course, but even Árpád Habony himself. Here's the partnership. You can say that NMHH, the Media Council and MTVA are very good partners in many things, for example, the Media Council is a very good partner of Andy Vajna. We need to look at the radio frequencies applications. That's something we've been talking about before. Their own rules of procedure have not been complied with. When I talked about it at the Cultural Committee meeting, then Monika Karas began to insult a journalist personally, really. Then there is a court ruling, moreover, that the authority did not comply with the basic rules in the proceedings. Interestingly, Monika Karas refuses to talk about this for some reason from now on, although it is quite clear that by violating their own rules of procedure, Andy Vajna's interests were preferred. From now on, about credibility, I'd rather not talk anymore. Then let's look at transparency. Why give 115 billion to an institutional and regulatory conglomerate that does not operate transparently? Because it doesn't work, and it's clear. It is enough to see what Attila Péterfalvi found about this. In particular, he found that in the case of 11 commercial radio frequency applications, the NMHH did not show any tender material or other data, such as public contracts, to a journalist. You've committed an offence. Attila Péterfalvi said this: they did not work transparently. Then I would just like to list the 115 billion that have been solved: Venice Hot Mountain FM, Budapest FM, Hajdúnánás FM, Hajdúszoboszló FM, Hajdúböszörmény FM, Derecske FM, Győr FM, Eger FM, Békéscsaba FM. Well, they hid what they were doing there, which is why the NAIH had to condemn them. In fact, NAIH went on and said that the media authority was also in violation of the law, that it refused to show the application for the FM frequency of Dunaújváros, Crossborder Film Kft. the tender submitted by the Member State concerned. NAIH also found that NMHH had not shown LB Rádió Kft., which has been operating since January 2018. and public contracts between the Media Council. So it doesn't work transparently, and I just gave you an example, so I could tell you more. [[13.20]] But by the way, MTVA itself, whose budget is included in this proposal, for a lot of money, about HUF 80 billion in direct budget support... So, MTVA is not a champion of transparency either. Just now, the court has ordered them to say something about how and how this Russia Today is in a contract with MTVA, whether it rents an office there, and it should be published. He refuses to comment on this despite the court ruling. In fact, the MTI refused to publish the news about it, for example, because it considered that the judgment against it was damaging its good name. It's so funny, you can really laugh at that. And we give this conglomerate 115 billion forints. I said... [[The president's gonna turn off the congressman's mic.]]
u2018-10-18-74	Congressman, I don't know what you're talking about, because the debate is about the National Media and Infocommunications Authority. And the total amount of this in 2017 is 36 billion,257.8 million. If that's not what you're talking about, then I can't speak to you because you're talking about something else. That's what we're talking about here. Congressman, I let you say that for ten minutes. Congressman, we're standing right here.
u2018-10-18-75	Mr President, roll this motion down a notch.
u2018-10-18-76	He's here!
u2018-10-18-77	This material contains the Media Council's budget of approximately 420-450 million and includes the budget of MTVA, which, according to the preliminary submission, is approximately HUF 85 billion. It's contained in the material! He's in there! Right, are you in? Confirm it for me, Mr. Speaker. Are you in?
u2018-10-18-78	He's in.
u2018-10-18-79	Then I'm right to talk about MTVA.
u2018-10-18-80	That's MTV! That's not the National Media and Infocommunications Authority.
u2018-10-18-81	But it's in this proposal! If it's called growing little rabbits, I can talk about it even if it's in there!
u2018-10-18-82	Congressman, I didn't take the floor, but I warned you that you weren't talking about the main subject for ten minutes.
u2018-10-18-83	I'm talking about the proposal. Mr Speaker has confirmed that the proposal contains the budget for MTVA, so I think that I am right to talk about it. And by the way, on the proposal of Monika Karas, the CEO of MTVA is appointed. Professionalism. It is also interesting to know what kind of professionalism occurs when, for example, NAIH says that they do not meet the requirements of transparency; when the court says clearly that they do not comply with their own rules of procedure, such as in the case of radio frequency; or what professionalism is it when we rightly demand that the public media comply with the requirements of balanced information, and we turn to Monika Karas, and the Media Council regularly rejects it by not having access to editorial principles. Unfortunately, this is the result of a UFO-believing expert, a disguise expert with no scientific achievement, and a vice mayor disguised as a civilian and a legal expert disguised as a political scientist, and a fidesz cabinet manager disguised as a political scientist, making a statement in the public media. While opposition parties in the campaign have been given 5-5 minutes about this, Ádám Mirkóczki has already spoken about it. It was my favourite, perhaps, at the appearance of the betterman's invited congressman, when the host made the conversation so professionally that, well, that's when you have five minutes to talk. That's what we got out of it. Cooperation. Who does Monika Karas and the NMHH and the Media Council cooperate with? Well, we have to say, for example, you must be working very well with Andy Vajna, Ripper Ripper. It has already been mentioned here, but I'll tell you again that, for example, when it comes to the merger of RTL and Central Media, a very thorough investigation was carried out. Therefore, I can commend the Media Council, they have done a thorough examination. And by the way, I think they were right to say that an overweight company would be set up on the market, so they wouldn't support it, they wouldn't allow it, so the GVH, according to the law, said that this couldn't be done. It's totally fine. Interestingly, when much larger groups of companies than this group were created in the interests of Andy Vajna and Lőrinc Mészáros, so they really created a huge number of television channels, newspapers, news portals, county dailys, radios conglomerates, then the authority did not carry out such a detailed investigation, carried out a simplified procedure without justification, made a simplified decision without justification, divided day! There was no problem here, and we rightly object to that, I believe, why this has not been done. Well, so much for cooperation. So, I'm telling you, I think there's a major problem with self-esteem and reality, and that's why I think that this money, as I keep holding it, is being spent around 115 billion forints badly for the wrong purpose. I, myself, wouldn't give ten pennies to all of this. Therefore, as I said at the beginning of my speech, of course I will not vote in favour of this. Thank you for listening.
u2018-10-18-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Bősz Anett. Here you go.
u2018-10-18-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As regards the National Media and Infocommunications Authority's draft discharge law, I have to say first of all that it is not the financial report that is a problem, although many of us are also debating whether such a envelope could at all involve such an authority, which we will also head off with the budget of MTVA, but that the authority, as a public entity, must serve the public good. In this context, you must take action to provide balanced information. Of course, you can say that only 5-5 minutes is enough for opposition parties, say, in an election campaign, I strongly dispute this, but what happens in public media news is a unilateral display of reality and a conscious distortion of facts. My fellow Members have spoken about this before. With regard to the Authority, it is not merely a requirement to spend the budget budget in discipline and in accordance with the plans, but also to be able to watch over the freedom of the press and media and to enforce balanced information from existing media. I do not think that this report is acceptable on the basis of these alone. So even though we're in the closing debate, it must be said that the authority is not fulfilling its primary legal obligation, which is why I cannot accept it. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-18-86	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next two-minute speaker is Mr Adam Mirkóczki, Member of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2018-10-18-87	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I asked for another two minutes because I would like to respond to the words of my fellow Member Nacsa, who said a few minutes ago that the MTV microphone was in front of me before all my press conferences and why I criticize MTV, because they were there. They were there, and I didn't say they weren't going to do it, and I said that the way they were telling me and what they were telling me wasn't on a thank-you basis with reality. For example, you will hold a press conference on the internal background of the abolition of housing savings, a press organ, and you will ask whether your prime minister or candidate for prime minister, when it comes to campaigning, was indeed a member of the Grey Wolfs and I do not know if he was involved in the papal murder. Almost all employees of MTVA produced such a level and such a standard. But I can keep going. You also asked why we didn't go to the Media Council. We turned around a lot but it's completely ineffective. How independent do you think a Media Council whose president is appointed directly by the Prime Minister for nine years should be involved in three parliamentary cycles and all its members are colleagues appointed by Fidesz? Do you think this is an independent Media Council? We can complain to them about the lies they've committed. And I'm obviously not talking directly about the lies they've committed, I'm talking about the lies they've committed under their supervision. That's terrible. But how about the Hungarian Telegram Office, which bans a press conference, which specifically disabled people, so that they can think about what press conference you have held in the last year, involving people, or say that we have already reported this, and that we will not repeat the news? [[13.30]] How many times have you guys told me about the cost reduction, Sorost? A hundred thousand times a day. There was no problem, in the case of opposition. Excuse me, Mr. President. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-18-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. There will be regular speeches. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Bősz Anett. Here you go.
u2018-10-18-89	Thank you, I...
u2018-10-18-90	Excuse me, you're logged in.
u2018-10-18-91	I marked it for two minutes, thank you.
u2018-10-18-92	So you're not taking the opportunity to speak. Thank you. To speak again, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai from the Fidesz Group has applied. Is the congresswoman taking the opportunity to speak? [[Mónika Dunai on signal:]] Yeah. Here you go. You have the floor.
u2018-10-18-93	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me to say a few things beyond the numbers in the light of the debate. One is that every Member has the right to address questions to the President of the Media Authority, and, by the way, the issues that have been discussed today are also covered. It does not belong to today's agenda, but any day, any question, even these questions, may have been asked by you to the President of the Media Authority, both now and in the future. The fact is that the law does not allow the president of the media authority to be present in this debate, and these questions are now being addressed, since he can answer these questions. The other one. If you believe that there are violations of law, violations of law, or presumptions, then it is not only your right, but also your duty as Members, but as ordinary citizens, to take legal steps, initiate investigations, press charges. They will not do so with regard to the matters which you have spoken about here today. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Yes, in every case!]] I say to Szabolcs Szabó that according to the glass pocket law, on the website of MTVA, which is a public website, there are hundreds of documents, lists, data, contracts, these are worth studying for you at any time, but for all Hungarian citizens. [[Szabolcs Szabó: Attila Péterfalvi couldn't find it either!]] Mrs Bango asked for it either on her own behalf, or I don't know on whose behalf, but several people have referred to it that I should not tell her what the opposition will talk about in the debate. I don't want to tell you what to say in any of the opposition's speeches, I don't want to tell you that, but I can't do that if I can just anticipate what you're going to say; because you said what I predicted and assumed. But it wasn't even in my dream that you would talk about the housing savings banks, the Sargentini report or George Soros, the resettlement of migrants, the fence. I do not want to be part of this debate now either, but I would like to say one thing here only for the sake of the minutes and those who follow the public transmission of the meeting on the Internet, Parliament.hu or even the minutes are being read. Mrs Bango asked a question, and this should not remain unanswered, that from the savings banks of the apartment, we regret and withdraw the HUF 70 billion from the people and the families. We spend 2,000 billion forints on supporting families, not 70 billion, or more. We spend 5 percent of our GDP on family support, a large part of which is aimed at boosting the housing situation and facilitating housing conditions. This is unique not only in our neighborhood, but also throughout Europe and the world. Although Bence Tordai left the meeting after his speech as a speaker, it would not really be important to correct what he said. He seems to be unaware of some things, he confuses media law, communications, he can't handle it in its place, or media literacy, for example. By the way, I agree with you saying that it would be up to the authorities to promote media literacy and media awareness, to move young people and all citizens towards media awareness. I also disagree that it would be his task; it is his task, and he is doing it now. For example, the recently introduced Magic Valley programme, but we can mention countless other initiatives. Views. Perhaps this is said by my fellow Member, Zsolt Gréczy, that he hardly has any ratings. Let's see, now let me just pick two, the Virtuosos, or the Flying Peacock. They were both a series, and they were not only on television once, whose viewing was outstanding, and which they were seriously interested in not only in Hungary, but also at international level, and discussed the purchase of their license. And to that kind of closure, what you've told me is that there's a newspaper in the country. I think everyone goes to the newsstand or turns on the television, there's a lot of channels, there's a lot of newspapers, there's locals, there's nationals, they're available in most places. You always decide which channel you're gonna be watching. If you, fellow Members of the opposition, do not like M1, then you will switch to ATV or RTL Klubra, or what you would like not only you, every Hungarian citizen, will do this or not buy that newspaper. By the way, in the world of the Internet, everything is available on the Internet, so anyone who doesn't buy it can follow everything. By the way, I think that this is how I do it, that it is possible to give fair information to all Hungarian citizens, but especially to politicians, that every press organ, whether it be the opposition, be the party to the government, I am not talking about the public media, but about certain media that you have proclaimed as pro-government, are being monitored in parallel. There is press freedom in Hungary. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-10-18-94	Thank you, Congresswoman. Mr Szabolcs Szabó is next for a two-minute speech.
u2018-10-18-95	Thank you very much for the floor. Just a clarification. So when I said that the conditions for transparency were not met by the NMHH, I referred to a reprehensible text issued by Attila Péterfalvi, President of the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information. He said he didn't release public interest data from the NMHH, so I didn't find it on the website. And that was an example, and I could tell you more, by the way. Now we can go into this for a long time and see where we can connect to the television channels. When it comes to competition between market players, it's totally fine, because I either like National Geographic or Discovery or Spectrum, and I'm gonna switch over, and then I'm gonna watch a different show, but I'm gonna say to the public service media, I think it should be a balanced public and non-public media. The answer there is not that if you don't like it, turn it off, but the answer is that if it doesn't work in a balanced way, it must be transformed and function in a balanced way, because it doesn't work in a balanced way. This is quite clear, even from the report of the NMHH Media Council, which we regularly listen to in the Committee on Culture, because even the simplest calculations suggest that MTVA violates the rates set for itself, such as the proportion of the government, opposition parties and government parties to the news programmes, while this is just a reference and not a context. It was just a little clarification. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-18-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if they still wish to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. [[13.40]] I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Lajos Szűcs, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-10-18-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would also like to say a few things about the past period and the debate here. It is clear, however, that this was a political debate, although this is a bit odd for a legislative closing act, because here we have listened to a report which is a report from 2017 to these four organisations. And that is why this is strange, because I say to my new fellow Members, these amounts are included in the current annual budget, and the specific feature of this independent organisation is to submit a report on its annual budget and a bill on its budget for the following year. However, this is included in the large budget we have adopted. Professional debates, as Szabolcs Szabó said, are not held by this committee, nor by the Committee on Budgets and not by the plenary session of Parliament, but by the Committee on Culture, and there is space and opportunity for these debates every time. So I think that this political debate that we have had, I regret rather than welcome it. One thing is certain: there were no financial speeches on those spendings on the opposition side, so I ask this House to accept the presentation submitted by the Committee on Budgets as usual. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-18-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. A general debate on the draft law on the 2019 single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority is now taking place until closure. Proposal submitted by the Committee on Budgets T/2052 On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Szűcs, rapporteur for the Committee on Budgets, notary of the Parliament, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2018-10-18-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In fact, the situation is a little strange, since it is not the first time that the accounts and the budget are discussed in one session. This is due to the fact that the time of the previous proposal has been postponed to May and that, by law, the Authority has sent its budget for 2019 until 15 September. It has slipped, but from this point of view, I must say the same thing that I have just said, that the budget of the independent media authority and the four organisations can come before this House precisely because there is nothing to hide in these matters. The 2019 budget includes the main amounts, and on this basis the Authority and the four organisations prepared the proposals that T/2052 made. the number has been submitted. This was discussed and decided to be submitted to this House by the Committee on Budgets on 9 October. Although it doesn't belong to the previous agenda, I couldn't find the numbers Szabolcs Szabó said anywhere. There are other numbers here, and the 115 billion doesn't come out here, because the total amount of the 2019 NMHH is, for example, HUF 34.6 billion. Of this, the public revenue totals HUF 26 billion, the largest amount comes from the frequency charges, HUF 20 billion 448 million, and the supervisory fee is HUF 2 billion 84 million. This will include the development of fines and a culture of conscious consumer decision-making, and all of these will be included in the professional material that you discuss at the Cultural Committee. Operating revenues will be HUF 6 billion for HUF 200 million next year. On the expenditure side, personal benefits are the largest, this is HUF 9.5 billion, with employers' contributions and tax incentives, with HUF 2 billion planned. The budget for personnel costs was planned with a total of 700 people, the expenditure in rem is HUF 12 billion, and the investment expenditure is HUF 2.5 billion with VAT. Most of this will go to investments and IT developments to ensure a smooth process of measuring services. The five members of the Media Council have a personal allowance of HUF 199 million, with contributions and a framework for professional supporters. The Media Council's operating budget has to show the media service fee and tender fee, which totals HUF 482 million, thus totaling HUF 681 million. The total revenue and expenditure of the budget managed by the Media Council is HUF 1.8 billion. It is important to point out that the media service fee will increase next year in view of the revenue generated by the use of national commercial frequencies. MTVA has a total revenue and expenditure of HUF 92.7 billion. Of this, the media service fee amounts to HUF 73 billion, MTVA's business revenue HUF 9.5 billion, operating aid provided by NMHH is included in the budget with HUF 8.4 billion, which should be calculated in conjunction with the aforementioned HUF 1.8 billion media council revenue. Dear House, In view of all of this, I believe that the proposed legislation contains all the budget items of the four organisations in 2019 that have been laid down for them by law, which is why I ask this House to discuss the proposal and then to adopt it in legal order. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-18-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The Government indicated that it did not wish to present a position during the debate. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mrs Mónika Dunai. Here you go, Congresswoman. You have the floor.
u2018-10-18-101	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group supports the draft budget of the media authority for the year 2019, because it is adapted to the legislation and the tasks set out in the legislation, and therefore proposes that the Parliament adopt it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-10-18-102	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-10-18-103	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, My fellow Member, Mr Lajos Szűcs, as the Commission's rapporteur, indicated that these two proposals had fallen apart and that the closing accounts and next year's budget would be discussed one day by the Parliament, so in the previous item there was a lot of contributions from the opposition side to the budget for next year, the media authority or MTVA budget. Here it must be said that the President of the NMHH acted according to the legal order and sent the Parliament's proposal by 15 September, which was therefore negotiated by the Committee on Budgets and submitted to the House. We believe that in the four separate budgets in the proposal before us, the media authority, the Media Council, the appropriations in the management of the Media Council, and the budgets of MTVA are in proportion to the objectives and the allocated budgetary resources. This is included in the budget adopted by the Parliament, so the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party supports the proposal and asks everyone else to do so. Thank you very much. [[13.50]]
u2018-10-18-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. The first independent Member to apply may now speak to him. I give the floor to Congressman Szabó Szabolcs. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-10-18-105	Thank you very much. Indeed, as the speakers before me have said, it is a little peculiar, because we are talking about the very same subject, only one is a closed budget year and the other is the debate on the budget year for next year. That's why I promise I'll be very brief. I would just like to say that if we look at the figures for the budget, we see the same magnitude as in the previous agenda. For example, if you look at the most important figures: NMHH 34.6 billion, this is 34.6 billion on the expenditure side, Media Council 681 million, MTVA 92.7. In parentheses: of which budget resources are only 83, and the Media Council's appropriations are 1.8, if I recall correctly. By the way, if I add it up and deduct MTVA's own revenue, it's still 119.5 billion, so the number I've been talking about before comes out. Facts and numbers are stubborn things, so maybe we shouldn't discuss them. It's all public money to avoid misunderstandings. So either direct budget support or simplified fine, concession revenue and so on. It's all public money, but it doesn't come into the central budget, because the law says we're using it for a different purpose; it's the same as the tao. Tao is public money, because it is a tax, only by virtue of the law it is not paid into the central budget of companies, but to a sports association or cultural institution approved by the Ministry. But it's still public money. That is why I say that it is about HUF 119.5 billion, so it is the same magnitude as it was in 2017, with a few billion forints more. My point of view is that, as we are apparently not going to come to terms with such debates, the NMHH, the Media Council and MTVA will do exactly the same, I will not vote in favour of this budget proposal. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-18-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask my fellow Member, Mr Lajos Szűcs, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs: No, thank you.]] He doesn't want to. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. We have reached the end of today's agenda. The speeches after the agenda would now follow, but those who have applied for a speech will not be present in the Chamber, and speaking will only be possible if the Member is in the Chamber. Accordingly, today will be closed. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will meet on Wednesday 24 October at 11 a.m. next week. I wish you all a dignified celebration. Goodbye.
