u2018-12-11-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good morning, everyone. The 28th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Attila Gelencsér and László Varga will help me. Welcome to our guests and everyone who's watching our work. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the declarations, information materials and the envelope relating to the family member's declaration of property will be received by the representatives at the reception desk at the entrance of the Chamber, with the name of the minority advocates at the secretariat of the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary. Dear Parliament, We begin our work with speeches before the agenda. Speaking before the agenda, MEP László Varga, notary of the National Assembly, MSZP:, withdraw the anti-worker proposal! It's an address. Here you go.
u2018-12-11-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Two weeks ago, the general debate on Lajos Kósa's proposal as a slave law began here in the House. The contents are well known to many. It then included the following: from 250 hours to 400 hours, this proposal plans to increase the number of hours that can be ordered, extending the working time limit from one year to three years, with up to 48 hours a week. So this proposal, let us say it roundly, can lead back to a week's work week or even 10-12 hours a day to permanent work. The question is what this means in certain sectors; what it means to say, if one member of a married couple works in catering, the other member is a factory worker in the automotive industry. Who's going to pick up the kid in kindergarten or who's going to pick up the kid from school? What kind of family-friendly governance is this? It is also an important aspect, which was obviously added to the table in the general debate, that a significant part of the companies are not even worth the age of three, so it can be concluded from this proposal that in many cases they will receive overtime money in three years' time, or there is a risk that the company will cease, which should be paid, thus placing an extremely outrageous anti-worker proposal on the table. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Shame!]] [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Shame!]] Lajos Kósa after you practically abolished the right to strike in Hungary and after adopting a code of work that made it flexible to exploit (Agnes Kunhalmi: Shame!) Hungarian workers. After that, the debate lasted four and a half hours, a Fidesz Member spoke to him in a few minutes, and Lajos Kósa and the Secretary of State spoke to him in a few minutes. They listened here for four and a half hours; Lajos Kósa fell into his laptop, without saying a word, and had the courage, by the way, to take his opinion in front of the Parliament and the public of the country. Otherwise, the meeting was closed completely out of order by the president, as several opposition representatives would have spoken and put further points on the table in the debate. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Cheaters!]] You have closed this general debate illegally and illegally, but since then the Justice Committee has not discussed this issue. Kósa later admitted that he had not even agreed with the unions, although he did not have much to thank; then he made a proposal to the Legislative Committee that actually introduced voluntary overwork and bound this 400 hours to the employee's written consent. According to your labor code, who do you think can object to such a proposal from the employer? Obviously, a point will be added to the employment contract in such cases, or a supplement will be used, and the employee has no choice but to sign it. No wonder there was a ten thousand demonstration on Saturday on the street of the Constitution in Jászai Square, it is true that you did not allow this demonstration into Kossuth Square. The trade union demands are clear: restore the former cafeteria rules, withdraw this slave law, and the trade unions expect a serious minimum wage and a guaranteed minimum wage increase. They're also planning roadblocks, and they've made their position very clear. Yesterday we had 2925 amendments to the agenda and to remove some of the proposals from the agenda. In this connection, this issue was discussed at the scheduled meeting of the Judicial Committee at 12:45 p.m., which was notified to the members by text at 12:42 p.m. It is fortunate that some of the opposition representatives, among other things, were in the House and were able to get there; e-mail arrived at 12:46 p.m., one minute after the planned start. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Shame!]] In this session, in an outrageous, illegal manner, [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Cheaters!]] You have agreed to vote on all the motions, but they weren't coherent. [[Interview from the lines of the MSZP: Where is László Fat?]] The fact is that you have decided on this in an outrageous, house-irregular way and have swept away the proposals that we have put on the table and are planning to adopt this legislation on Wednesday. It is no wonder, then, that we have used hard tools, we have used all the means to protest against the outrageous procedure here; I have also been excluded, I can be disqualified, punished, and my fellow Members can do this, and we are doing this for the benefit of the Hungarian workers, what we have done. In any case, since then, it has been clear that the Speaker in the Chamber at that time has made rather insufferable manifestations of this. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The question is, who will punish the Speaker in this regard? [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: The Fidesz! Shame on you.]] Who will rule him out of Parliament's meeting. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-12-11-2	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Sándor Bodó responds. Here you go.
u2018-12-11-3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! The Member requests the withdrawal of a draft amendment to the current rules on the organisation of working time and temporary agency [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] and, in this situation, he accuses us of being exploiters of Hungarian workers in connection with the amendment of the law. [[Bence of Turda: That's the fact they're recording!]] Honourable Congressman, I suggest that you look at government measures in the previous years, even in terms of minimum wages, and I recommend that you consider how and how employment data have evolved in Hungary. Obviously, you are also well-known, because you were on the government when you could see the number of employment opportunities, how many people were working at the time and how many are working now. Please remember that there are more than 800,000 workers in Hungary today [[Agnes Kunhalmi: London!]] Therefore, it provides security for so many families, and now more than 4 million 500 thousand are actively working. [[Lajos Korózs: That's not true either, you know?!]] The number of people who work in public employment is constantly decreasing, and more and more people are able to return to the competition sector, so this will certainly give the Hungarian economy stability. In any case, I would also like to advise you on how and how average wages have evolved, but also the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage over the past period. If you say that this government deals with the exploitation of workers, it will lead the labour market in a completely wrong direction. [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] Then I would ask you to review these data again in any case, because it is likely that you have either not done so or you have drawn incorrect conclusions. But of course, we can't just sit back. [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] The labour market is a colorful world and challenges are constantly changing. I think that we all agree in this Chamber that working conditions can always be improved, and that clearly must be done by employers, workers, in a settlement. [[8.10]] The government supports the proposal to regulate working time because it is for the purpose of stressing that those who want to work more: those who want to work more voluntarily want to earn more should be removed from bureaucratic obstacles. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: It will be paid in three years!]] With this regulatory instrument, employers and workers can agree to agree on a larger amount of extraordinary working hours, so that workers can earn more money at their own workplaces, and from then on, obviously, the family has more income. [[Szabó Timea: Why would they want to work more? Why don't you raise the basic wage? You'll have to pay a normal wage.]] I would also like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that overtime cannot be included in the working time schedule, in particular in view of its exceptional nature. Obviously, it has escaped the attention of my honourable fellow Member that it follows from the proper exercise of the law that, in fact, overwork can only be ordered in exceptional cases, the employer has no opportunity to regularly include overtime in the working hours for each day, as you do in your vision. [[Szabó Timea: It will always be an extraordinary case somehow.]] In examining the government's employment policy, I therefore ask the Member to review the results of recent years in any case and to read the proposal carefully. It is not about exploitation, and it is not about breaking down workers' rights. It contains opportunities, it brings new elements at the level of opportunity, and I stress that this should be based on the agreement of the parties. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-11-4	Dear Parliament, Mr Tamás Meller, representative of the Dialogue, asked to speak before the agenda, with the title: "On Current Affairs." Here you go.
u2018-12-11-5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Last week, I was preparing to talk about the extraordinary meeting at the Academy last Thursday, that Minister Palkovics did not dare to attend this meeting; that more than 90 percent of academics rejected the Minister's blackmail; that more than 90 percent confirmed President Lovász and authorised the Presidency to continue negotiations. And that according to academic Tamás Freund, the withdrawal of resources from the research institute will result in the loss of all talent from here. Tamás Freund said this, a world-famous brain researcher who is difficult to say that he is left-wing or liberal. Unfortunately, I can't talk about this in the light of yesterday's events, because yesterday there were extraordinary things going on here in Parliament, the prelude to the outrageous amendment of the law that was tabled by two Fidesz MEPs, which we quite rightly call the slave law, but the man on the street also calls it a slave law. Sándor Lezsák was the one Sándor Lezsák who had even sent me an invitation to the meeting in Lakitelek to conclude this debate in an illegal manner for the sake of democracy. Fidesz then, yesterday, in violation of its own Fundamental Law, voted against in the Judicial Committee to vote individually on the 2925 amendments. After that, it was what happened: there were tough arguments, and then the opposition whistled and left Parliament. I'm reporting, I'm out of Parliament, and I've been whistling. Why did I do that? When I was elected as a Member, I came into Parliament a little afraid that, oh, my God, what I will do here, I would be prepared professionally enough to carry out this task. Then months passed, and as for my comments, it turned out that the secretary of state did not pay any attention to what I said, that they did not have a professional opinion about it, but that they were personalised, looked into the past, provided incorrect statistical data, and did such things. I did not agree with my fellow Member from Turda at the beginning that he spoke so hard and did such attractive things, but today I realize that there is no other option. You have brought this Parliament to the level that a peaceful professor like me has to whistle, because otherwise you don't give a damn about me. What's gonna happen next? I'm asking you. What can we expect? That, in February, two Members will pass another law, say, the law of the ius primae noctis, the right of the first night, because if you have created serfdom with the slave law, then this also comes with the ius primae noctis. [[István Szilárd Németh: What are you dreaming about? Moraj on the opposition side.]] You have oligarchs, not me. You have a very serious historical responsibility, and I think that you cannot hide from this historical responsibility. In fact, by a three-thirds majority, they were able to create only such a poor half-feudal system in Hungary, which is more like Eastern despotical systems than Western democracy. From double Marshall's aid to the European Union, they could only create a colonial economy that can only function by creating laws to deprive workers of their fundamental rights, of the right to strike, and by ensuring that the capital is eviscerated and exploited by the working class. You will have to answer before the court of history. And I am sure that not only our grandchildren, but also your grandchildren, will be ashamed of your activities, because this country deserved more than that. Thank you very much.
u2018-12-11-6	Thank you very much. I suggest that your imagination be moved not only by the ius primae noctis, but also by the Secretary of State Dömötör, who wishes to reflect. Here you go.
u2018-12-11-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Everything about this bill has already been said about us, which is the point. But I would also like to repeat to you: the goal is that everyone in Hungary who wants and can can work, and that is worth it. The problem is that there are bureaucratic obstacles, and we want to make sure that those who want to work more willingly want to work more so that they can make more money can do so. [[Noise on the opposition side. Szabó Timea: Nobody wants to work anymore! Pay me more basic wages.]] This is why the government supports the possibility for workers to work voluntarily. [[Szabó Timea: You will receive the money for it in three years!]] But it always requires the employee's consent. I will also give you respect when you do not only give it to me, but not to any of our constituents. [[Dr. László Varga will take his place in the notary seat.]] And one more thing struck my ears, Professor, is that he practically painted Hungary as a feudal country. And that's what you do week after week. They talk about the state of the country from week to week, and if anyone were to start from your angry speeches, you might think that Hungary is a dying place, with only blood, sweat and bitterness. [[Szabó Timea: That's right.]] Allow me to bring here nine facts that fundamentally contradict their Armageddon-like description, such as the creation of more than 700 thousand new jobs during civil governance. You never talk about it. With this, we have the third lowest unemployment rate in the EU. This in itself reduces the vulnerability, honourable Member. According to KSH data, the number of people exposed to poverty has decreased by 800,000 since 2012. In the meantime, it is more worthwhile to work because wages, net wages, real wages have increased since 2010 [[Moraj on the opposition side. Agnes Kunhalmi: That's not true! You're cheats!]] And the minimum wage for skilled workers has doubled. And if the negotiations lead to success, the minimum wage will continue to increase, and you do not have a valid proposal. But not only have we preserved the value of pensions, but we have also increased it by 10 percent. This year, the elderly also received a pension premium and a voucher for Elizabeth. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Before the election!]] As far as young people are concerned, we spend twice as much on family support as we did in 2010, and even if you attack, we will continue to expand the programme. [[8.20]] In January, the tax relief of two children is expanding. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that one million children receive free textbooks in Hungary [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Pay! Szabó Timea: Raise wages!]] over 600,000 free meals. You have not even thought about such measures, Mrs Bangón. I'm only saying this because you joined the MSZP. [[Szabó Timea: The minimum wage is 82,000 HUF! How much do you live on?]] If education and health matters are important to you, because they often refer to this: we spend 606 billion more on education and 505 billion more on health care. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: That's not true either! Szabó Timea: That's not true...!]] Compared to your government. And you're gonna keep this quiet, but I'd also like to record here that the government announced a few days ago that it's 72 percent. [[Szabó Timea: Health promotion was only for EU money!]] conducts a raise-up programme [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: Orbán denied this in Kossuth Radio! Szabó Timea: Disproved!]] For health professionals, 72 percent. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Everything... I like it, Mr. President. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: I can see that!]]
u2018-12-11-8	Relax. I like it, too. I suggest everyone likes it. Now the Secretary of State is speaking, and you are reflecting. Here you go.
u2018-12-11-9	I don't envy you or this party. All that, ladies and gentlemen of the House...
u2018-12-11-10	Stop, stop, stop! We're not criticizing the president anywhere he belongs. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: We do not envy your party because of you.]] Wait a minute. Dear fellow Members, As weird as it is, I'm talking now. With all due respect to the Secretary of State, since I am here as Vice-President of the Parliament, I would not be qualified in any way. Tell me your reflection, and I'll do my job. You do the same. Here you go. [[Szabó Timea applauds.]]
u2018-12-11-11	I will, thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, All these measures are backed up by a growing economy. [[András Tállai to the presidential pulpit:...are you not ashamed?]] According to the last quarterly figures, the Hungarian economy grew by 5.2 percent, and that is not little. We want more, but it's not enough. So, it's a lot, but it's not a dying country. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Not for you, that's for sure!]] and, above all, it is not a feudal country, as you insult our country; rather, it is a place where you have to fight for a better life every day, but which is going in the right direction, with small steps. [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] We're sorry that you can only add such yellings and raising the volume here in Parliament and causing a lot of trouble. That's all you can add to that. [[Szabó Timea: No! You're wrong.]] This is the top performance of the left-wing parties. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You bought all the psychics! Dr. János Fónagy: Quack, quack, quack!]] Honourable Congressman, It takes a lot from your stand, from your credibility, to join the MSZP for the hope of a single EP mandate that has already hit this country; we do not want to see it again. We wish you every success in your work. Thank you for listening. [[Szabó Timea: The EP mandate has ruined the country? You're the one who's tearing this country apart. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-11-12	Dear Parliament, Representative László Varju, representative of the Democratic Coalition, applied for a pre-meeting speech: Why can't it be tolerated if there's something for the poor? It's an address. Here you go.
u2018-12-11-13	Thank you very much. Mr President, I am pleased that you have met me, and I am honored that you are one of those who know your fellow Members, and not asking about their names, who is the one who is asking for their comments. Honourable Secretary of State. Now, try to listen to me for a second... Secretary of State Dömötör, please try to listen to me for a moment. [[István Szilárd Németh: Don't listen! It doesn't matter.]] Because I'm trying to tell you, quietly and quietly, and so that you're aware of the policy that you're doing. That list of propaganda you just told me. [[Csaba Dömötör: Fact!]] For example, we're missing the little story you've done this year. Though it may seem a little lengthy, the story is that you are the most vulnerable people, and what you have mentioned, the most vulnerable people you do not deal with, for example, as a marketing business, you quickly pushed in to get firewood support for people. During the spring election campaign, they promised them this, and when it came to it, they were willing to meet our demand, otherwise, to go on the road to giving something to the most vulnerable. Why is it difficult for you to help the poor? Why is it that when you made this decision, you were not able to count the 800 thousand affected, the family who was entitled to this allowance... This decision was made by 200 people freezing in their own home last winter without heating. You set up a support system, and this summer, when the decision was finally made, instead of giving everyone the money to heat this winter, you didn't do that. And what did they give them? 12 thousand forints of funding. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Like the others. That's all the others got!]] Mr. Secretary. Do you know how much this costs in a house? How much does heating with firewood cost? Three hundred thousand forints. You guys gave people two taels of wood. [[Szabó Timea: That's the reduction of the rent.]] That's their shitty lie, that's Szilárd Németh's shitty lie! When he stands there! The gas bills? It's been approved for everyone. Mr. Secretary. It's been credited to you in the spring. They just didn't give it to people who, by the way, need it the most. [[Dr. Pál Völner: You have tripled the price of gas!]] They have made the decision to receive them by December 2019. And you're telling me that, by the way, there are bureaucratic obstacles to what you have to remove? [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] When they create opportunities that exploit not only the most vulnerable, but also workers and workers. You have put here a law that creates exactly the same vulnerability that you are talking about. This is the Pharisee attitude for which you must be expelled from this House. They don't belong here! They don't belong here! And there is no place for those who, by the way, did not allow us to discuss this law, nor did they allow the slave law to be discussed in this Chamber, and for us to represent the people who sent us here before Parliament. What are you waiting for? Beg you? [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Why?]] Why? [[Agnes Kunhalmi: That they should not be humiliated in their own country?]] These are citizens who, by the way, voted for these people, it is true, in the benches, for those on this side. And you're incapable of taking this into account. Then comes a leading president, who won't let the debate go through, and then comes his boss, who, by the way, talks about MEPs in an invaluable way. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Has he resigned yet? Dr. Pál Völner: How do you talk?]] Well, then it's time for Lezszak to leave after Sándor Fat László! You have no right to sit on that bench. You can talk high up there. You can turn the microphone off, but otherwise, we have the right to whistle. We have the right to speak against him and yell at him because there's no other way you can understand him. They'll only hear us if we raise our voices anyway. All they hear is people standing in front of the house, even though they're trying to hide it, and in their own media, they're acting like this story didn't exist. [[Lajos Varju Korózs is photographing László Varju with his phone. Dr. János Fónagy: Smile because they're taking pictures!]] It is time for the law to be revoked, and those who have prevented and tabled all this, to leave this Parliament. Thank you very much.
u2018-12-11-14	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, the Secretary of State Rétvári reflects. Here you go. [[Lajos Korózs: Let's get out of here! Several MSZP representatives are leaving the room.]]
u2018-12-11-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, On behalf of that party, we heard a lecture on how to speak to politicians, whose boss and a kind of spiritual leader is Ferenc Gyurcsány, who told ten million Hungarians that they could leave. [[László Varju intervenes.-...don't put it in your mouth. István Szilárd Németh: Take your medicine and go! Agnes Kunhalmi: Well, you drove him away! László Varju: You must go!]] Who said that they lied in the morning, at night and at night, and that everyone wanted to replace their old wives with younger ones. What did you say to Ferenc Gyurcsány after he said these sentences, honourable Member? Did he still have such passionate outbursts at the faction meeting? Did you still say that anyone who speaks like that has no place in Parliament and no place in politics, honourable Member? I think it would have been nice if they'd still faced themselves. You spoke as a representative of a party whose politicians, when they sat in the government of Hungary and when they gave the parliamentary majority, privatized public utility suppliers in the mid-1990s, on the one hand, that the Hungarian people were buying their own water, their own gas and their own electricity, not from a Hungarian state company, but from foreigners, on the infrastructure that was built by Hungarian people and was part of the public property previously [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: Now they're getting it from Lőrinc Ripper!]] In the 1990s, this public wealth was privatised, and in the 2000s, when they were re-led, the price of gas was tripled and the price of electricity doubled. [[8.30]] This is what you did when you were on the government, and now you're criticizing the fact that those who heat gas, for example, immediately received the overhead support, and those who heat with wood, through the municipalities, receive this premium through a longer procedure. Honourable Congressman, When we said after 2010 that we were going to cut your rent, you doubted, they said that the system would collapse. You were on the side of foreign-owned companies, by the way, protecting the profits of foreign-owned companies guaranteed by law during the Horn-government against being on the side of the Hungarian people for one second. You had the energy to collect signatures for migration, for quotas, and to stand for the dismantling of the fence at the southern border. But they didn't have a second to stand up for the rent cuts. In fact, they opposed it at all Hungarian and European forums, because the interests of the multinationals were more important to you than before. [[Agnes Kunhalmi keeps interrupting.]] We can also remember that when you were in the government, honourable Member, unemployment was not reduced, but that the number of unemployed people in Hungary was doubled. And obviously, paying the bills is also the biggest problem for people who do not have a job, but only live on some kind of temporary support. And you have doubled the proportion of these people. In the meantime, the price of electricity has been doubled for the unemployed, and the price of gas has been tripled for the unemployed, honourable Member. [[László Varju: How about you tell the truth for once?]] After that, there is no slightest credibility, no matter how much you whistle, no matter how much you drum, no matter how much you shout, whether you stand up, whether you sit down, or you move in, the slightest credibility of what you have said in the interests of the poor, needy people. After all, you took a month's pension from pensioners. They also took a month's pension from pensioners with the smallest pension; because you were instructed from Brussels to save money on poor people. You saved money on poor people, but the profits of the utility companies that were guaranteed during the Horn government were not taken for a penny. They kept it at the same level, they were able to get those billions out of the country, only a few tens of thousands of HUF pensioners took a month's pension, including a few tens of thousands of forints that were still at their disposal. In addition, regular child protection support has been taken away from many families, one and two children's children's tax benefits. In the three and more children, the family tax relief was reduced to a fraction, and the child's time was reduced by one year. Honourable Congressman, On the other hand, what is happening now in Hungary is a positive change for people. When you look at why there are so few in the opposition benches, you might want to look at the figures on how both the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage have radically increased, how Eurostat, Eurostat, non-Hungarian data have decreased, with almost 1.5 million people who are at risk of poverty based on Eurostat data; how Eurostat said that the financial difference between households with children and without children has decreased to the greatest extent by 2017 and 12. In English: Childbearing no longer means so much the commitment of poverty, in fact, it is constantly decreasing. The number of people living in extreme poverty has fallen by 386 thousand, according to Eurostat data. These are our achievements, which is why we are in the government, and that is why you are in the opposition. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-12-11-16	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, representative of Jobbik, applied for a pre-meeting speech: It's an address. Here you go.
u2018-12-11-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We are nearing the end of 2018 and I feel it is worth giving an account of the gifts the Orbán government has given to the citizens of Hungary this year; I must say, you too, my fellow members of the Government, because we are all members of the Hungarian nation. For example, the unprecedented increase in public debt: a baby born today is born with a burden of HUF 3.5 million, and this is what falls from the government debt. Then the unprecedented general government deficit, because EU funds have been treated without paying the tenders they have won. Then let health care rot with an inhuman human minister. Then there is an unprecedented shortage of teachers in education, and on the PISA test there is a depth of inefficiencies that could never be imagined in Hungary. Early school leavers under 18 are now 12.4 percent. It's horrible. Student protest students are being harassed, but there is no decent education in schools. It's a great luck for a child to end up in a school and a school for educators who might be able to turn him into a human being. During the election campaign, fear raising was peaked, even though more than 25,000 migrants were admitted secretly and with settlement bonds. Then let's move on: there are evictions of unprecedented size, and they watch it so renegade and uninterestingly as if it were a natural form of a democratic rule of law. Or let us look at the fact that the price of basic foods is increasing to a degree that clearly leads to real wage growth. It is in vain that every day they brag about it in the walls of this House. Then the public rule of Viktor Orbán and his circles: please, this is devastating to all societies and makes every society disagree. Or I will go further: the elimination of State aid for housing savings by lying about the burden on the budget, even though every year spending on it generated three times as much budget revenue from taxes, taxes and contributions as the amount of State aid itself. Or should we move on: will the media empire be set up so that it can't be controlled by the Competition Authority and see how public funds are squandered through them? Or let's move on: an amazing solution to the fate of the homeless, even though they know that homelessness is the common sin of left- and right-wing governments. So, 80 percent of homeless people are victims of the state's operation. Compared to this, he's being punished, and they're not trying to solve it in a humane way. Come to me, I'll be happy to give you the program to do this. Hiding and receiving international criminals: in the international space today, if a Hungarian person is known to be Hungarian abroad, he will be the object of contempt because they have sunk our international judgment so deeply. Total supervision of Hungarian science, taking away the freedom of Hungarian science. It will cause incredible damage to the 21st century. At the dawn of roboticization, it is in this way that they want to rid science, science and science of their freedom with exactly Gerő Ernő-style advice. Or, for example, what will the Hungarian people be given tomorrow? With 400 hours of overwork, and tomorrow, the legal framework for the total state dictatorship will be completed. In the vote over 40 tomorrow, there are several laws that will actually enable Viktor Orbán to operate a total dictatorship in Hungary. What does Jobbik want compared to that? A decent country where every man can develop according to his abilities. A country where sick people are cured, and children are raised to be educated heads of people. A country where solidarity, responsibility for each other, love for each other... because, under their own rule, even love dies out, and only fear dominates Hungarian society and does everything out of this fear. Jobbik wants a country for the citizens of Hungary where it is good to live and where to develop. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-12-11-18	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Mr. Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, reflects. Here you go.
u2018-12-11-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As far as the country's international judgment is concerned, well, we thanked you, but it is strange from a party that sent a representative to Brussels to spy on a foreign country. [[Németh Szilárd István: That's true.]] Then, as far as fear is concerned, we're a few days after one of your representatives turned out to be openly bragging about hitting a woman of Jewish origin, and after that, you're referring to the atmosphere of fear. Let me ask you, this congressman has already quit Jobbik. Has he been discharged yet? if you're referring to fear. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea keeps interrupting.]] Then the other topics, because they affected a lot: as far as sovereign debt is concerned, the socialists raised it from around 50 percent to more than 80 percent, this government reduces this. Please check the numbers. As far as health is concerned, more than 70 hospitals have been renewed or built in the past, thanks to a hundreds of billion-dollar development programme, the government has decided on new hospital centres in Budapest, and doctors' wages have increased on average by 82 percent compared to 2012. [[8.40]] I would also like to say to you here, reminding you that a few days ago the government announced that it was launching a major wage-raising programme for health professionals. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Take your parents to a hospital.]] As far as education is concerned, this is what you've been talking about, and we're spending 606 billion more than 2010. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] By the way, I would urge you that if you have the energy between two yellings and the time to make suggestions for the National Basics, this is the debate. We want not only the frames to be fine, but also what students receive as knowledge. We would like to have XXI. Give them centuries of knowledge. As far as food prices are concerned, if food prices are so important to you, why are they not in favour of reducing VAT on food? You've done what you've done to qualify our political community, so allow me to say a few words about Jobbik's career in recent times. It's not a nice story. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: I look forward to your words.]] We can observe three basic phenomena. The first is a prolonged identity disorder, the second is the flow of corruption cases [[Dr. Brenner Koloman intervenes.]] The third is that instead of facing them, Hungarian voters are constantly systematically insulted. As far as identity disorder is concerned, it's enough to look at your speech there. We've been listening to this for weeks, months, there hasn't been one speech that would have been a little different from any one of the left-wing parties' speeches. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: You have text understanding problems! Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] Any one of your speeches. While it is also typical that while you were evacuating from the Union a few years ago, you were burning an EU flag, you would now give the determination of wages to Brussels. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: No, it's not true! Bullshit!]] and, typically, the Tavares report was still opposed, then they already abstained on the Sargentini report, thus joining the left. [[Interventions from Jobbik: European Public Prosecutor's Office?]] And then, as far as corruption is concerned, we don't have to tell you this because the party members who run away from you are telling us enough about these things. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] But it's a typical story, and it was hard for them to shove it down the throats of the rightful supporters, so that the donations to the SAO's fine were finally spent on something else. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: That's what we spent it on. You will give it back if Strasbourg judges your illegal fine, you!]] What can you expect from those who lead their own supporters? Then the third thing is insulting voters. Let me get this straight now that we're at the end of the year. According to Jobbik's president, Hungarians are servitude, that's what he said. According to Congressman Mirkóczki, they vote on the basis of whom they receive three forints more. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Yeah, that's how you do it.]] And what Gábor Vona, who temporarily vloggered his daily life, thinks that some Hungarians do not think at all, says Gábor Vona. In a recently recorded video that resembles the movie "Listen to the Lambs" [[Defiance from the pro-government ranks.]] he said directly that the person who considered the issue of immigration important in the April election did not think. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: He's smarter than you!]] That's what he said. That's what your former president said. And he also said that those who thought like that ate the pacifier, those were his words. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Answer my question, answer my question.]] These are not our words, but the words of Gábor Vona. We don't have much to add because they tell us everything. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Talk about the homeless.]] About the last few days of Jobbik. So, 2018 goes into Jobbik's story as a year when you cut your own roots, gave up anti-communism and volunteered to sign up. [[Uproar and Interrogation from Jobbik: You have become Communists! Dr. Brenner Koloman: You've become communists, my friend, and for that, we're against you. Cut! When your boss was a Soros student and a communist, I was already an anti-communist, my friend!]] of those who hold themselves as national parties. And it wasn't forced, it was premeditated. It was the result: a soulless, disintegrating couple, where Gergely Pongráz's image could hardly be on the wall. [[Grumbles and interrogations from Jobbik's ranks:]] Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-12-11-20	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn, representative of the LMP, applied for a pre-meeting speech. Tell me the truth, will your head be broken? ! It's an address. Here you go.
u2018-12-11-21	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. I was deeply shocked to learn that Besence, which is a small village in Baranya, is only a village of more than a hundred people, although it meets all the conditions, did not receive extraordinary support. As mayor, I know that we used to call this "fucking money," he used to have the same self-hiving name. It was interesting to look at their submission, which the mayor showed, and also showed the submission of the neighboring settlement, which is a common office settlement with similar characteristics, with perhaps eight more, almost the same numbers, with a small difference. They got 'em, Besence didn't get 'em. I wonder how many other settlements there are in this country that are grounded like this. I know some mayors who will report on this, but in order to answer that question, we need to clarify a few questions. What's the mayor's job? It is to represent the best interests of your settlement within the legal framework, as optimally as possible. I hope there's no partying yet to speak out on his head. We're not gonna make it this far, are we? Why is it that some Members of an independent mayor are trying to figure out whether they are pro-government or opposition, whether they are friends or enemies? You know the mayors have been elected as well as you, right? You have the right to give your opinion, even if it's not your taste. Maybe it's a lot better than the ones who keep quiet. It is a shame that many mayors dare not speak for their settlements because they fear that the population will suffer a disadvantage. But why is that? There are government officials who put the mayors on the edge of the carpet and threaten them in a shell, and we're not gonna get along! And with similar terms. I also have to ask you, since I've asked you about the mayors, what is the job of a congressman. I don't recall a list of jurisdictions in which the MP's chief of staff in his district. How is it, ladies and gentlemen, that these Members hold the mayors to the brink of the exception? What kind of country is this? How is it that Members refuse to help a mayor or a settlement, as appropriate, because they do not sympathize with that mayor or because they believe he is opposition-minded or perhaps committed the main crime of being a member of a opposition party? Do only people who are pro-government or unconditionally sympathetic to the government have the right to express their opinion in this country? Let's not get this far. Or is there going to be retaliation, one way or another? Or bang him in the ground? Maybe a character murder? But why is that? Do these people remember what democracy is? After all, many of them were mayors. What is freedom of speech? Many may also have forgotten that they were once political in opposition; they were not always on the Fidesz government. I hope that these abuses are purely a self-reliance of a few Members. In any case, it is disappointing that such a thing can happen in Hungary. The fact that mayors are simply silenced, strangled, some of them, I stress, are not all MPs, but there are those who consider the mayor to be their subordinate, and either you shut up or you get nothing. So don't have to live in a country where you have to be afraid of your own Member. It's horrible to even say it. Thank you for the floor. Merry Christmas.
u2018-12-11-22	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Mr. Secretary of State Pogács will reflect. Here you go.
u2018-12-11-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In Hungary, the municipalities perform a very important task, and I think [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Take a deep breath before you say it.]] and I say this many times that the Hungarian municipal system is one of the success stories of the change of regime. The Hungarian authorities are in direct contact with the citizens, through the operation of the Hungarian municipalities a number of public services reach the citizens, and as partners of the Hungarian government, I think they can work well with both the government and the representatives and Parliament, so in the democratic order in which we operate, the system is working perfectly and there is the necessary harmony. Obviously, interests vary from time to time, obviously there are cases that are in the interest of local interest, local interest and a larger territorial unit, or even not necessarily in line with the interests of the country, but overall, I think it can be said that the municipal system is working well. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Comrade Kádár envious!]] What you said happened after 2006. We heard the then Minister of the Interior who told us that he knew what he was doing, that he knew exactly how to supervise local governments through sub-regional agents, that he knew exactly where to transfer EU funds. There has been a left-wing local government community, which has been difficult for me to understand since then, because a local government cannot be left-wing, because the municipality represents the interests of the citizens of the municipality and is elected by the citizens of the municipality. [[8.50]] Accordingly, they cannot be classified as couples. That is why one of our greatest tasks after 2010 was to give back to the municipalities their freedom in economic terms, give back the opportunity for the municipalities to make real decisions and really work for the interests of the municipality. It is very important that the debt transfer took place, and in contrast to exactly what you say, one of the important aspects of the debt transfer in the government was that, not considering the composition of the debt, the debt transfer was made by all Hungarian municipalities. Obviously, we have also seen that there are serious anomalies in funding and that the division of tasks has also had to be changed, they have happened, and in the new funding system that has been established, essentially the operational capacity of municipalities is ensured. Today, there is a possibility for local authorities to operate on the one hand in terms of public task financing and partly in terms of normative support, on the other hand in terms of local revenues and, thirdly, in terms of the type of support that you are talking about, exceptional support, exceptional operating aid in the case of an economic burden on the municipality during the year when compared to its agreed budget objectives, which makes it impossible to implement its budget, it may apply for exceptional aid. Special grants are subject to professional criticism. In the very first stage, a professional screening is carried out by the Treasury, when the Treasury examines that the conditions for the granting of extraordinary operating aid are met by the tender submitted, and after that a detailed verification is carried out. The small settlement you mentioned has, by the way, applied for such support almost every year since 2010, and has received support every year in line with its task. Every year we look at how the settlement can function. In this year's first round or in the first option, the professional opinion was that the budgetary situation of the municipality did not directly threaten the functioning of the municipality, so this settlement was rejected in the first round, but you may also know that the municipality submitted a tender in the second round, and this proposal is under consideration. So if you want to put pressure on me, I have to tell you that the previous criticism has been done on a professional basis, and this is the basis of the second criticism, and I can also tell you that we do not distinguish between the municipalities of Hungary [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the type of management you have. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-12-11-24	Thank you. Dear Parliament, János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament, representative of the KDNP, has applied for a pre-meeting address with the title of the current challenges facing the World Trade Organisation. Mr. Vice President.
u2018-12-11-25	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Lords of the Secretary of State and Minister of State! Last week, on 6 and 7 December, the World Trade Organisation held its parliamentary conference on the regulation of world trade jointly with the Interparlamental Union. Since the conclusion of GATT 1947 and then the WTO in 1995, the World Trade Organisation has played a central role in regulating, strengthening multilateral trade agreements, shaping the world economic order and building an open, non-discriminatory multilateral trade system. The Hungarian government is convinced that an international trade system based on free, fair and equitable trade is conducive to global economic growth and sustainable economic development. However, the trade system based on established rules and multilateral international treaties has been facing a serious crisis in recent years. The negotiations are almost completely stalled. According to some experts, trade wars are already under threat. The situation is aggravated by the fact that the dispute settlement mechanism, which can be considered as the core function of the World Trade Organisation, is also beginning to deteriorate as the mandate of the members of the current Board of Appeal expires next December. The appointment of new members is hampered by the US policy. This stalemate could soon lead to the fact that the rules of today's multilateral international trade system will become inexorable. This neural situation must be resolved as soon as possible in the interests of all of us, so that the independence and legitimacy of the Board of Appeal can continue to be ensured. In addition to the organisational problems, we must also see the systemic challenges accumulated in previous years arising from the proposals of the 2001 Doha Development Agenda, which was not yet resolved 17 years ago. The conference agreed that the World Trade Organisation, as it stands, is not prepared for the 21st EDF. The challenges of the 20th century and therefore the modernisation of the WTO urgently needs to be started. In the framework of this process, it is vital that the global organisation is able to develop more flexible, new negotiating processes than in recent years, because it is the only way to respond effectively to ever-increasing changes in production and thus in trade, the effects of which need to be prepared for the world trade system, and even policies that are in the interests of societies and wider groups of people, both individually and at Community level. Of course, as stated in the final statement, the same is true of environmental issues. There is also a need to take more concrete steps to implement the agreement agreed at the Paris Climate Summit and to promote sustainable economic development. The final statement also states that the achievement of the SDGs and the fight against poverty are unthinkable without a global increase in women's involvement, and that the organisation must therefore be more effective than at present in removing barriers to participation in the economy by women. Ladies and gentlemen, In order to achieve these goals, the global organisation can only succeed if it is able to increase its democratic legitimacy beyond the aforementioned organisational solutions and to establish an official working relationship with the Parliamentary Conference of the Interparlamental Union, which is not only in the interests of the governments of each country, but also of the economic companies of each country and the citizens of the world themselves. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-12-11-26	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the government, Mr Péter Sztáray, State Secretary, gives his opinion. Here you go.
u2018-12-11-27	Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, As an export-oriented economy, Hungary considers it essential to protect an open, predictable and transparent multilateral trading system based on rules. Efforts to modernise the WTO should be focused on solving the most pressing problem, such as the crisis of the dispute resolution pillar. Reform initiatives should involve key WTO members, such as the United States and China, and the largest members should contribute to the modernisation of the WTO. While maintaining freedom of trade, we are interested in creating a level playing field and combating unfair commercial practices. In the latter framework, we support the European Union's efforts to negotiate in the framework of tripartite cooperation between the United States, the EU and Japan with a view to reviewing and strengthening the relevant WTO rules. Hungary's interests are at odds with the ongoing trade war, and we hope that it can be resolved in the short term and in a reassuring way. [[9.00]] An effective conclusion to the WTO trade negotiations is a prerequisite for the organisation to face the fundamental changes in the world economy over the past two decades and for the emerging members to make their contribution to the commitments, reflecting their increased competitiveness. We support the European Commission's efforts to ensure that developing countries receive only special and differentiated treatment in relation to the application of WTO rules, in proportion to their level of development, along with real and verifiable needs. In addition to updating the international set of rules, emphasis should also be placed on the proper implementation of existing obligations. At all forums, we are committed to supporting efforts to address the challenges facing the organisation and, as an EU Member State, as an export-oriented economy, it is important for Hungary to be properly represented in favour of the WTO. It is therefore in Hungary's fundamental interest that world trade and the WTO, which provides a regulatory framework, can operate without tension and problems. Mr President, thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-11-28	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr László Böröcz, representative of Fidesz, applied for a pre-meeting address with the title of our current questions. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-12-11-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The threads are connected: it is now clear that Brussels and the United Nations want the same thing, because what is currently happening in the United Nations and Brussels is legalising illegal immigration. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Why didn't you quit?! Why didn't they both quit?!]] We must not doubt that illegal immigration in Europe has been organised and managed since 2015. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Why don't you speak up?! Why are you speaking in the Hungarian Parliament?!]] For more than three years there has been a struggle to stop or organise migration. The Hungarian government's position is clear and unchanged from the outset: migration carries dangers, can and must be stopped. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] The preparatory negotiations of the UN Global Migration Package and the Asylum Package were nothing more than betraying the people of Europe. [[Dr. Varga Damm Andrea: You have the double speech!]] Its official name is a global agreement, and the documents on safe, orderly and regulated migration do not represent European values at all. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Why don't you give this speech at the UN?! Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea is leaving the meeting room.]] Hungary wants a European Union where Christmas stays with Bethlehem and Christmas trees in the future. Europe must stick to its own traditions and heritage, and today it is necessary to resist any attempt to change the composition of the EU's population fatally. According to the Hungarian position, Europe is not a refugee issue, but a migration issue, and migration processes must be stopped. Hungary considers illegal immigrants to be illegal immigrants and not refugees. Some needy people in their homes are at war, forced by terrorist organizations to leave their homes. These people must be helped locally or in the nearest safe place to their country. Hungary will continue with its increased resources and help those in need stay at the nearest safe place to their home. The representatives of the Union could not say anything on behalf of the Union either in Marrakesh or in New York, given that a quarter of the Member States, seven countries, have decided not to support the Global Pact on Migration. It is therefore clear that the more EU Member States have recognised the importance of the package, the more people have decided not to support it. This way, at least seven EU countries will vote 'no' or stay in New York next week at the vote on the package. Europe is still in danger. Contrary to the expectations and claims of many, the migratory pressure from Turkey is not decreasing, but is increasing. Data from the Turkish authorities also confirm that more and more migrants are coming to Turkey. By November of this year, 40 percent more people arrived, 240 thousand more than last year. There is a clear new migration wave, with the number of migrants arriving in Turkey increasing from month to month. The number of migrants in Turkey is already around 5 million and is expected to continue to increase due to uncertain developments in the region. So far, Turkey has been able to keep them around within its territory, but now there are new phenomena: more and more migrants do not want to stay in Turkey, but are heading towards Europe through Greece. This year, 50,000 illegal migrants have already reached the Greek islands, which are already full of migrants, and they can go to the European Union, and from there through the Balkan route to Western Europe and even to the Hungarian border. This process also indicates that Europe is still in danger, not decreasing, but increasing and increasing migratory pressure, not only tens of millions of people from Africa to Europe, but also a new wave of migrants from the east. If this pro-immigration leadership in Brussels and the majority of the European Parliament, which, instead of working to protect Europe, denies migration threats, wants to help migration with a migrant visa, a migrant card, a migrant agency and a migrant financial fund, then Europe can become an immigrant continent. This is the stake of the European Parliament elections: Europe will either replace its leaders and defend itself or lose itself. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-11-30	On behalf of the government, Secretary Dömötör will answer. Here you go.
u2018-12-11-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The Member has also said that the debate in which we have been involved for practically three years has not calmed down, and this is not only because of the migratory pressure on the European Union, the European borders, but also because Brussels leaders, as if nothing had happened in recent years, are still working on the establishment of an institutional system that would streamline it, facilitate it, not prevent immigration. The fact is that this plan has no social support, and this has led directly to a huge gap between the elites in Brussels and European citizens. That is why the issue of security in the European elections will be a subject that will override everything next May. Well, the fact that we can maintain our security determines fundamentally that Hungary can continue to remain on a growing path. Now we're in a growing orbit, we're in a growing orbit, and we'd like to keep it that way. Allow me, in addition to the subject mentioned by the Member, to talk about some of the current changes that support this, even because these changes should be taken into account at the end of the parliamentary season. It is an essential circumstance when we talk about results and changes that Hungarian GDP continues to grow significantly, by 5.2 percent, which is a very high result in EU comparison, it creates the potential for progress in a number of strategic areas, such as the expansion of the family support system. From January this year, the two children will be entitled to a tax reduction of HUF 40,000 a month. As early as December 1, the home creation system has been extended, already two children can receive a discount loan of HUF 10 million and the three children can receive a discount loan of 15 million. Pensions are rising, with an additional 2.7 percent after the premium paid in the autumn, with the elderly receiving the Elisabeth voucher this year. The increase in wages of law enforcement workers is continuing by 5 percent in January, which fits into a total 50 percent wage increase programme between 2016 and 2019. There's a significant increase in care fees. Those who care for their children because of a serious disability or long-term illness will receive a gross allowance of HUF 100,000, the non-child carer's fee will increase by 15 percent from January to 2022 and gradually by 30 percent. As far as other changes are concerned, all references up to HUF 20,000 are exempt from transaction duty, the VAT on long-term and semi-preserved milk is reduced, which complements previous VAT reductions. There will be tax reductions elsewhere: tax exemptions for the smallest companies will increase to 12 million, with 600 thousand taxpayers paying better, which will be complemented by the fact that they will not have to make VAT returns. [[9.10]] More people will be able to choose the form of small business taxation, which has increased from 500 million to 1 billion from 1 December. So these are measures that show the image of a country that is moving in the right direction, not necessarily a country that is able to take the most important decisions on its own and which is becoming less and less dependent on others. The goal is not to depend at all on others in our finances, nor on our own decisions. Overall, our main goals remain growth and security, and the government will continue to work to enforce these aspects together and count on the support of all those who contribute with their work, ideas and daily struggle to this country's growth. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-11-32	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, A consolidated debate on the proposal for a centenary for the recovery of independent Poland follows. The submission submitted by Members László Kövér, István Bajkai, Fidesz, and János Latorcai, KDNP, T/3975. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. I would like to inform you that according to the House Rules adopted, a total of 15 minutes for the opening speech and closing speech, 10 minutes for the speech of the Polish ethnic advocate, 10 minutes for the statement of the representative of the Government, 6 minutes for the statement of the Legislative Committee, 3 minutes for the presentation of the minority opinion, 5 minutes for the speeches of the political groups, 3 minutes for the speech of the independent Members. Dear Parliament, For the first time, I give the floor to Mr István Bajkai, the rapporteur on the agenda. Mr President, I must draw your attention to the fact that you have a total of 15 minutes to present the opening speech and the possible closing phrase in the debate. Here you go.
u2018-12-11-33	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the Polish minority spokeswoman with special respect. I am honoured and grateful, and it is important for all of us, and I trust that I would like to present to you now a draft legislation that can be agreed. Our draft law on the restoration of Poland's independence, I can assure you, is an example and an important message for all Central European peoples. The significance of 1918 is different for the Polish and Hungarian people. Hungary's tragedy peaked this year, and our country was pushed deeper and deeper by enemy powers and traitors through the loss of a significant part of our thousand-year territory, while Poland regained its territories and became an independent state. There were seemingly conflicting processes, but in fact, this centenary also shows a typical situation in Central Europe with its own contradictions. Our people have faced very similar issues in their history. Our recurring dilemma is who we use to drive the invaders, foreign powers, their lackeys, their agents out of our country. This grinding has created camps divided to the end in both us and in Polish society. But ultimately, attempts at national independence, which are not always free from internal disputes, have always been about freedom, human dignity and the right of a people to self-determination and the retention of their country. Polish independence faced the threat of Soviet-Russian occupation before Hungary, and two years after its creation, Piłsudski led the war until 1920 to repel the occupying Soviet-Russian army to spread communism throughout Europe. By doing so, he rejected the Soviet-type communist threat for all Central Europe by some 20 years, for which all Europeans should in fact be grateful. However, this includes the fact that the Polish patriots were partly assisted by Hungarian ammunition to protect their country. Our historical aspirations were not only similar to the processes in another country, but have always been intertwined. There are so many shocking, heroic scenes of this that it would take days, weeks. The spiritual cohesion of the two peoples has always been stronger than any political agreement. Our historical friendship has also sided with each other in situations where we have been best friends when we have been placed in conflicting federal systems by the intricate European political relations. At the level of mere mention, I would like to recall some specific events, since one of the aims of the law is to learn about each other's history and culture. During the 1848-49 Revolution and War of Independence, four thousand Polish soldiers participated in our independence struggle. At the beginning of World War II Hungary, Prime Minister Pál Teleki, refused Hitler's order, closed its borders before German shipments, and did not allow German troops to march against Poland through Hungary, but opened the border to Polish refugees. And if some revolutionaries in 1956 claim that Polish blood flows in their veins, it is not poetic because the Polish gave the most blood to Hungarians in 1956. These are the most important events of our history, when the great powers who have considered our region a protective zone or a parade area, the people who live here are, in good times, casual travelers, in worse cases, vulnerable to cannon fodder, yet, defying them, we have listened to humanity, our faith and our hearts, we have preserved our dignity, and we have not taken the necessary hostile action against each other. This is when the Polish-Hungarian alliance became successful. From this mutual love, respect and camaraderie, a Central European force can continue to grow today. The fact that independent Poland exists today is the result of a long historical process, which is due to the perseverance of the Poles, many sacrifices and no exaggeration to say this is also due to a divine miracle, and we are proud that we Hungarians could have a small share in this. However, not only have we fought in parallel for our independence, but we have also participated in each other's history in a mutually supportive way, it is not precisely in terms of international law or politics that it has raised our relationships, our commitment to each other and our difficult common destiny to a higher moral level. The purpose of the law is to declare this historic alliance on the one hand and to further strengthen it on the other. There is also a section on education in the proposal that allows Hungarian students to know our interlinked history and culture. But there is also a strong, modern-day Central European aspect of this law. In fact, it is about our right to sovereignty and about our mutual support in this. Central Europe is one of the most complex, complex, diverse regions in the world, and one of the most challenging parts of the world. We could also say that Central Europe has always been a mission area in its history, and we must always rephrase this mission. We need to find the common goal and task for today and for the future that will make us stronger, thereby bringing us the security of survival to all of us, as well as a vision of a future building our country, thus giving hope to our environment, bringing satisfaction and the happiness of living in the homeland to the people living here. Beyond the historical facts, therefore, this law is about our common future, in which we can build a strong Europe of strong nations, one of which Central Europe is a strong region. From the strength of the Polish-Hungarian past, from the moral order of standing for each other, from our common Christian roots we must continue to build on concrete goals, such as the construction of the Warsaw-Budapest express train line, which actually connects and develops this region. [[9.20]] The development includes honoring and commemorating, but it is the responsibility of our generation to use the historical friendship of the two peoples in the prosperity, forging, strengthening and rebuilding of the region. I therefore ask you to vote on this bill with regard to Polish-Hungarian friendship and our common destiny in Central Europe, our future. There are not many examples among other peoples of sayings and poems about centuries of mutual friendship, so let the words well-known to everyone be heard here in the Hungarian Parliament, which express the deep spiritual bonding of the Polish and Hungarian people, and the beating of our hearts together, and which says: "Polak, Węgier, dwa bratanki / I do szabli, i do szklanki / Oba zuchy, oba żwawi / Niech im Pan Bóg błogosławi. The two friends of Poland-Hungarian / Together they fight and drink their wine / Vitéz and their brave both / Bless them both. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-11-34	Thank you very much. I thank the rapporteur for his speech. I would like to inform you, Congressman, that at the end of the debate, you have six minutes to say the closing word. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Dr. Rónayné Slaba Ewa Maria, a Polish minority speaker, who will present the first sentences of her speech in her mother tongue and then translate them into Hungarian. I would like to draw your attention, Madam Speaker, to the maximum of ten minutes available. Here you go.
u2018-12-11-35	Szanowny Panie Marszalku dziekuje za udzielenie mi glosu. Panie Mardzalku, Poslowie in Sanown, rzecznicy in Sanown, witam wszystkich bardzo serdecznie. Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Honourable Members, Dear Speakers, Welcome, everyone. I am very pleased with the current bill. This sets out not only a gesture towards Poland, but also important guidelines for the future of Hungary. In my speech, I would like to talk about these guidelines, which I would like to further strengthen in my heart. Article 1 § salutation before regaining Polish independence. Several events have been connected to this in the last two months: last Saturday's conference in the House of Parliament, a conference on the hope of memory and identity for the future at Pázmány Péter University, the inauguration of the statue of Piłsudski in Csörsz Street, Popiełuszko Memorial Day, this Friday's name ceremony in the future Miczkiewicz Square. It could further strengthen this, make people more present in their daily lives, if we Poles and Hungarians could get to know each other even more, our countries, our culture, our history, our traditions. Poland took a big step forward in 2016 when it organised the year of Hungarian culture. Hungary can also do much for the cause through the recently established Waczław Felczak Foundation. Article 2 § 3 remembers the Hungarian people who are actively involved in the recovery and maintenance of Polish independence. Although the return of independence could have been achieved without Hungarian help, the continuation of it would no longer have been possible. In 1920 it was vital for the Hungarian ammunition shipment from the Weiss Manfréd Works in Csepel to be launched, as when the Polish troops protecting Warsaw arrived, only three bullets per soldier were left. In the absence of this, the Soviet army preparing to take the Polish capital could have easily destroyed the Polish army and the Polish state, which had been reorganized just two years ago. Article 3 The current Hungarian and Polish national interest in Europe has grown from the necessary continuation of the Polish-Hungarian community of friends, and it has also been complemented by a new patriot alliance that brings together Central European peoples. It is vital that the future Europe is based on patriotism instead of multiculturalism and chauvinism. The goal of Christian Europe, in the sense of Robert Schuman, which lies in the eyes of the founding fathers of the European Union, can now only be achieved by the Eastern European peoples, above all, by bringing together and fighting together Poles and Hungarians. The Poles and Hungarians have never fought against each other in their historical struggles, but for each other. For example, Father Bem came to Hungary. It occurred to me that yesterday was the anniversary of his death, which was commemorated by the Hungarian Radio. The Hungarians feel so much about themselves that they mentioned it in the show as a general of Polish origin, not even as Polish. Article 4 § 2 emphasizes the importance of education education. It is true that Poland and Hungary have been together, and are, the protective bastions of Christian Europe against external and internal threats for many centuries. It is also necessary to raise awareness in future generations, to which we need to make our education system fit. To this end, I urgently consider it necessary to publish a book, which would be able to process the history and traditions of the Polish-Hungarian fate community in a readable form, accompanied by excerpts, which could then be used in schools. Article 4 In addition to education, I would add research into the past. I think it is very important that history can re-evaluate Europe's history from a Polish and Hungarian perspective, including Polish history and Hungarian history, and the role of the two nations in medieval Europe, in the light of many new achievements and findings. For example, our historians cannot yet explain the new issue: how is it possible that the two ethnic groups that are genetically closest to Hungarians are Polish and Croatian. In the field of history research, close cooperation between Polish and Hungarian historical institutions would be a forward-looking approach to previous history not as dogma, but as a variable dependent on new scientific results, exceeding, for example, the unquestionable Finno-Ugric theory. The development of Slavic peoples and languages in connection with the ancient history of Hungarians and Poles can be a very exciting topic. I ask for the help and support of the Hungarian Government in order to launch all this. Finally, could it be better to celebrate the restoration of Polish independence than Hungary would place Polish culture, Polish history and Polish traditions at the heart of its interest for a year? And the best way to do that would be to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the battle and wonder of Vistula. It would be wonderful if the Hungarian Parliament declared the year 2020 to be a Polish year in Hungary! Dziękuję za uwagę. Thank you for your attention. [[9.30]]
u2018-12-11-36	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Starray will reflect. Here you go.
u2018-12-11-37	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Dear Speaker Woman, Honourable Members, On 11 November 1918, Poland regained its state status and independence after 123 years. The centenary of this is also a great celebration for the Hungarian nation. Article 19 shall apply from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. Hungarians have always played their part in the Polish uprisings of the century. The Hungarians fighting Russia in the First World War also felt the liberation of Poland as their mission. Hungary has been enslaved in several cases throughout its history, we have been in Ottoman for 150 years, under 45 years of Soviet occupation, so we particularly feel the euphoric joy of regaining the long-lost statehood. For us Hungarians, freedom, the fulfillment of the dream of national self-determination means a great deal. It is of symbolic importance that the uprising in Poznań and the revolution in Budapest struck the first gap in 1956 in the world order following World War II. At the moment of its birth, modern Poland had to face the expansionary aspirations of Soviet Russia, now announced in the spirit of internationalism. In order to perform the so-called vistula miracle, when the Polish army protected the capital from the advancing Soviet forces, the bled-out Hungary helped when it was weak itself, giving maximum support to the Polish people defending its independence compared to its potential. The last-minute ammunition supply contributed not only to the protection of Poland but also to the protection of all of Central Europe from the Bolshevik invasion for 20 years. After World War I, both countries fought for their existence, and at such critical moments, they truly show who the real friend is. Poland and Hungary really depended on each other during the collapse of old empires and then the rise of totalitarian regimes. After 123 years, Poland, reborn threefold in blood and at the cost of serious sacrifices, was able to preserve its independence, avert communism all over Central Europe, and not sink into anarchy. The Hungarians and Poles were part of European culture and the protection of Christian civilization, based on human dignity, sovereignty and freedom. Our nations have also undertaken to protect these universal values against increasing external pressure and hostile overpower over the centuries. In today's challenging times, it is important that Hungarian-Polish friendship and camaraderie be maintained and strengthened. With joint action and close cooperation on the European scene, we can create new opportunities for our countries that can contribute to the further success of Central Europe. Hungary will never leave Poland alone, one of the gestures of this is the draft law that has just been tabled, which not only shows the direction of developing our bilateral relations, but also shows that the idea of Hungarian-Polish friendship will be passed on to the future generation, because our task has not become less, no one will defend our shared values for us. The stand for these falls on us, Poles and Hungarians as it has in the past centuries. Central Europe can be the leading area of the European Union. This could not have been achieved without cooperation in Visegrád, and the success of the V4 would have been without Hungarian-Polish friendship, solidarity and mutual support. The proposed law further deepens the genuine friendship between our nations, thus strengthening the situation of the Visegrád Four in Europe. Long live the Hungarian-Polish friendship! Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-12-11-38	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented. I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Herczeg, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2018-12-11-39	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Speaker Woman, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee discussed T/3975 on the centenary for the restoration of independent Poland at its meeting held yesterday on 10 December 2018. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. It adopted it unanimously by 23 votes in favour. With regard to the presentation, I would like to recall that, over the centuries behind us, our history has been interlinked with the history of the Polish people on several points, as Dr. István Bajkai said, at least in substance, that is what he said, and our development in Central and Eastern Europe often moved together when this development was a dead end, and also when it was written on the most beautiful pages of history books. From the period between 1000 and 1301 the two peoples were connected and connected by a number of contacts. For example, the Transylvanian prince István Bathory was crowned king of Poland, King II. Ferenc Rákóczi, fleeing from the prison of Viennaújhely, lived in Warsaw and Krakow for two years, then Polish generals, led thousands of Polish soldiers, fought for Hungarian freedom in 1848-49, and I could give a long list of common points in our history. Of course, we also remember that the Polish noble republic was the 18th. In the 18th century, the neighbouring great powers territorially divided the single Polish state from the map of Europe for 123 years. We Hungarians have always supported our Polish comrades in their struggle to regain their national self-determination. This was no different during the First World War or after Hungarian troops provided support for the Polish people to succeed in the fight to restore national independence. The Hungarian and Polish people are the XX. Throughout the 20th century, he was mutually supportive of each other. An excellent example is the reception of Polish refugees during the second world burn, when hundreds of thousands of refugees found security in Hungary. The Polish people who came to us at the time were registered by the Hungarian authorities, they were provided with a certificate, which was also legal protection for them, and it may not be irrelevant that this admission work was then controlled by József Antall senior. It is important to note common XX. 1956 of our century history, since the demonstration on 23 October in Budapest was organized in the spirit of expressing sympathy to the Poles, and the Polish also responded positively to the Hungarian events: they gave blood to the Hungarian wounded, and launched supplies of medicines and food to Budapest. It can therefore be said that the struggle between the two nations against Soviet occupation and communism was a common struggle on several points, as our recent and present are in many respects common, since the two countries first joined NATO and later the European Union at the same time after the change of regime. Dear House, On 23 March, the Polish-Hungarian friendship was officially the day of both countries, which was voted by the Hungarian and Polish Parliaments in 2007. Many Hungarian settlements maintain this friendly relationship, so Békéscsaban is also a Hungarian-Polish Friendly Cultural Association, and there is a Polish minority self-government. Relationship and friendship also determine the future of the two nations, as we want to promote common interests on the international stage, in support of each other. Ladies and gentlemen, As an expression of a close relationship between the two nations, this bill also seeks to strengthen Parliament's respect for the 100-year-old free Poland and its national heroes in a legal act. That is why I ask you to support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-12-11-40	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have five to five minutes, and the independent Members have three minutes in total. First, I give the floor to Congressman Richard Hörcsik, representative of Fidesz. Here you go. [[9.40]]
u2018-12-11-41	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We are celebrating the idea and birth of an independent nation state today; the idea that has persisted among the Polish patriots for generations, who have preserved what is really important despite centuries of persecution of oppression and the cultivation of Polish national culture. What we see is that the extremely strong commitment from father to son is that everything must be done, all sacrifices must be made for independent Poland, for an independent nation state. What we see, ladies and gentlemen, is that this has been an obligation for the Polish patriots to make a lot of sacrifices, a lot of efforts, as they have been with us centuries ago in Europe, you might say, they have been reminded of the ideologies in which the nation states have been in the way, whose goal has always been to create an impersonal empire without any real common ideal, a violent empire without identity that the Polish people have been forced to endure for more than 120 years. Well, stopping this was largely due to the perseverance of a Polish patriot with exceptional abilities and the idea of a strong Polish nation. Ladies and gentlemen, The restoration of Poland's independence and Józef Piłsudski's name are inextricably linked. This historic event must be known to everyone, because it is an exceptional achievement that is not only for the Poles, but for us, I believe that it is exemplary for Hungarians as well. It is therefore our duty to remember this after a hundred years, in fact, to make known the name of this Polish hero, because he does set an example of patriotism for the whole world, not only by fighting independence, but also by establishing a stable Polish state. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to draw some short quotes from the contemporary press to illustrate this in a short and better way. According to the article of the National Newspaper of 14 May 1926 Piłsudski, I quote:. One of the greatest and finest statesmen, an excellent politician who has always done his work according to his patriotic commitment. In other words, the name of Marshal Piłsudski in front of all Poles. Or according to the Budapest Hírlap, I quote: He personalizes the post-war revived Polish free state, in which he had the lion's share. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, There is only one country in Europe whose history is so close to Hungary, the idea of Hungarian freedom. Perhaps that is also the basis of our friendship, the common denominator is that, above all, we consider it more important to work together as an independent nation state with other peoples for higher goals and things. This friendship going back to the old days, I believe, is a real community of fate with a long line of struggles for freedom, democracy, independence. Ladies and gentlemen, So it is not only right, but it is also very timely that one of the most beautiful manifestations of friendship, the victory of Polish freedom struggle, will be celebrated by the Hungarian Parliament and declared that Polish-Hungarian friendship should also be addressed to our successors, the younger generation. This bill, my fellow Members, can be not only a festive act, but also a law that sets out obligations, because it makes it clear to all future Hungarian governments that there is a value that we have to appreciate across generations, a heroism that we will continue to honor in the future. In view of this, this bill is supported by the Fidesz Group, and that is why we are asking our fellow Members to support it with their vote. Thank you for listening. [[Applause for the governing parties, sporadic applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2018-12-11-42	Thank you very much. The next speaker was Mr Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik. Here.
u2018-12-11-43	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We are living in a stormy day here in the Hungarian Parliament, so it is not easy to rise above these and to express patosic thoughts that this agenda would otherwise deserve, because it is absolutely close to my own person and to Jobbik's faction to make as many gestures as possible in the interests of Hungarian-Polish friendship, and, as has been said, not only to be gestures, but also to manifest themselves in as many practical actions as possible. It is therefore important to express patosic thoughts. It would also have been important, in our opinion, that if we considered Hungarian-Polish friendship to be so superior to Hungarian-Polish friendship, rightly so, we should not only be pro-government representatives on this proposal. I would like to remind you that in 2016, when we made a gesture in a similar way, in relation to the year of Hungarian-Polish solidarity, the House adopted a proposal for a resolution in full harmony, then each faction gave a petitioner. I would've been happy, and I'd still be happy to have a gesture like that. I believe that this would also show that it is not the privilege of the governing parties to cultivate this kind of friendship, but that we can think in a way that is above the parties. It is a small matter, but perhaps it would have been worth a good time to adopt this proposal on 11 November, but it is a hundred-year anniversary on the occasion of the independence of our Polish friends, and not in this way, away from house rules, in haste, discussing this proposal in a somewhat unworthy way. I think there was plenty of time to prepare for a 100-year anniversary, and it's not an unexpected thing for us. I would not like to repeat the historical facts on which we can demonstrate that this is not a symbolic friendship, but that it is based on facts; the historical personalities, rulers, generals, events on which the two peoples were able to express solidarity with each other. Mutual assistance and other mergers all support what kind of living relationship and past this friendship has. I would not like to repeat these, but I would just like to draw attention to the fact that we should not look at this relationship with nostalgia, but, as many of the speakers have referred to it before me, we should consider it as a living relationship that needs to be nurtured, passed on to the generation of the future, and everyone should try to contribute in their own way. In this respect, I am also very proud of my community, Jobbik, that we not only regard this as nostalgia, but also have living relationships with our Polish friends, we regularly organize excursions to Poland, or we attended the commemorations in Warsaw with a serious delegation on 11 November. More than once, Jobbik's youth department, for example, has issued a tender that has maintained Hungarian-Polish friendship and has strengthened this awareness in young people. So we also consider this friendship to be a living relationship, and we would like to urge that, through as many practical examples as possible, or even using the elements of the education system, we be able to make known to the future generation the facts that have been said here and which make this friendship important and which make it necessary to pass it on to the generation of the future. The Jobbik therefore supports this proposal, it is obviously close to our hearts, and we welcome all such gestures. We hope that many other similar gestures will be made to our Polish friends, and once again, practical actions will manifest themselves in the strengthening of this relationship, as much as possible to the Hungarian society, because this is how we can achieve our goal. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause for the Jobbik, sporadic applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-12-11-44	Thank you very much. Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the representative of KDNP is next. Here you go.
u2018-12-11-45	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Another milestone of Polish-Hungarian friendship lies ahead of us, an important bill that seeks to commemorate the centennial anniversary of Poland's independence, and it is very important, as has already been said, that this should not only be a memory, but also a living reality of everyday life. Before I begin to say this, let me express my regret that three opposition parties thought that this bill was not important enough, this issue is not important enough to be represented by a Member here in Parliament on this important agenda. [[9.50]] I think, and perhaps we can all see that the friendship between the Polish and Hungarian people is unique in European history. The stormy XX. 1st century and the 21st century ahead In the century, there is a great example for the surrounding peoples that there is an alliance that looks back on nearly a thousand years of history, an alliance that has been linked in many places and in many ways throughout history. These have been mentioned before, fellow Members, but I think that at these times, when many people are working to break down the national state framework, it is important to give an example that two nations can rely on each other as a strong nation, as an independent, independent nation, but still rely on each other, as they have done many times in their history. So I think that we value this alliance, this value, and that we should all be builders and messengers of this covenant. My fellow Members have already mentioned the historical perspectives and the events of the Middle Ages. I'm XX. I would like to talk a little bit about the century, since Hungary is XX. In the 20th century, he played a prominent role in Polish history three times, during the Russian attack in 1920, during the German invasion in 1939 and during the uprising in Warsaw in August 1944. In 1918, after the three-time division and after the last division, after 123 years, Marshal Piłsudski, who created the army of an independent Polish state, faced in 1920 that the Bolshevists dreaming of world revolution saw Poland as their main enemy. The Red Army has also launched an attack on the occupation of Warsaw, which would have been followed by the Bolsevization of Europe. Russian commander Tuhachevsky ordered Lenin to issue an order of war to lead the way to the world revolution through Poland's corpse. I think that the defeat of this was one of the great deeds of Marshal Piłsudski, before which we too wish to bow our heads. At that time, the Russians were moving forward quickly, and the Polish soldiers were exhausted from their six-seven-shot clips, and all that was left was to wait for the final attack in Warsaw. At the last moment Hungarian help came to the front, which, alongside the leadership of Marshal Piłsudski, was able to reverse the course of the war and then the outcome. They asked for help from other people in Poland, they asked for all kinds of paramilitary support, and besides France, our country was the only state that helped the Poles when we made all the country's spare war materials and ammunition available to the Poles. Thus, we have been able to contribute somewhat to the ability of Poland to stabilise its independence after 123 years on the map of Europe, to maintain its independence and then to move forward on the path of development. In the current bill, I consider it very important that the passage by which Parliament intends to authorise the government in education policy and cultural policy to take various measures and action plans that, in reality, can strengthen this everyday relationship at the level of young people, at the level of communities, at the level of ethnic communities, so that this law, the day of Polish-Hungarian friendship, and the parliamentary decisions adopted earlier, provide a solid basis for this friendship. But in addition to the words, beyond the laws, in addition to the laws, in practical actions, student exchange programmes, interpretation training, sports events, church events, community support, we can achieve the results that will strengthen the sense of Polish-Hungarian friendship and belonging in young people as well. As I began my speech, I conclude that this alliance is of great value, so it is important for us that it reaches everyone, and that friendship can be felt at the level of young communities. The KDNP fraction supports the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-11-46	Thank you very much. I'll ask if someone else would like to speak in the remaining time frame. [[There's no candidate.]] Dear Parliament, As a matter of fact, the consolidated debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Bajkai, that he wishes to respond on behalf of the authors. [[On Dr. István Bajkai's signal:]] Here you go. You have six minutes.
u2018-12-11-47	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, First of all, I would like to thank the speakers for their support, which has been shown in each of the comments. In short and in summary, I could say that this bill will accomplish what we have actually done in our history, that these two peoples are in such close friendship, in such quality and in such spirituality, and together they have fought through the centuries, which we can sanction with this bill, with the adoption of this law. We can also ask ourselves, although this obviously goes beyond the time frame and Parliament's options as to why this has happened. I was trying to give myself some kind of answer. Our faith, our struggles? The constant attempts to conquer from the east to the west, our history of suffering? Is it that there was a time when we lost our countries or that part of the country was constantly living under different jurisdictions? What was it? And I came to the conclusion that, of course, all of these played an important role, but perhaps, as I did in my presentation, in my expos, there is a level of international conventions, legal categories, political conventions, morality that cannot be derived simply and exclusively from historical events. Rather, we can put it that way, and perhaps even with the science of genetics, we may not always be able to identify ourselves by living our daily lives. This spiritual community, this spiritual and natural kinship and circumstance, I think, has made us an ally that, I think, is truly unprecedented here in Europe and is almost unprecedented in the history of the whole world. Accordingly, I thank you once again for the opportunity to speak, and for the fact that everyone who was here today in this House supported the bill, which will serve all of us, the whole Hungarians, the whole of Poland and the whole of Central Europe, and sets an example, as has been said here in the speeches to the peoples of Europe, and strengthens this region. Hopefully, Polish-Hungarian friendship will project us a century in which our peoples will develop, this region will be strengthened, and we will be able to live even more safely and happily in our homeland. Thank you very much.
u2018-12-11-48	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CCVI on the right of freedom of conscience and freedom of religion and the status of churches, religions and religious communities follows. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Government referral T/3618. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Herczeg, rapporteur of the committee. I will give the chair to Vice-President János Latorcai. Thank you very much for your cooperation. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2018-12-11-49	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 6 December 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed the right of freedom of conscience and freedom of religion and the CCVI 2011 on the status of churches, religious groups and religious communities. T/3618. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Parliament's resolution of 10/2014 on certain house rules. By 23 votes in favour, 5 against and 3 abstentions. [[10.00]] Ladies and gentlemen, Following the adoption of the Fundamental Law in 2011, the National Assembly had to establish laws which would bring the areas of law concerned into line with the provisions of the Fundamental Law. One of the first legislative proposals was the adoption of the 2011 CCVI on the right of freedom of conscience and religion and on the status of churches, religious religions and religious communities. Law. It is the new law of 1990 on freedom of conscience and religion and on churches. He wanted to replace the law. However, regarding certain provisions of the new law, the Constitutional Court and certain international organisations, such as the European Court of Human Rights, the Venice Commission, have made comments and raised criticisms. The purpose of the bill before us is to comply with the fifth amendment of the Fundamental Law and, as I mentioned above, to clarify the issues relating to the indications made by the Constitutional Court and international organisations. The bill clearly states that freedom of conscience and religion is a fundamental right for all, which cannot be linked to any legal form. The bill differentiates the different legal status of religious communities, which is necessary because not all religious communities have the same social support, and it is not enough to look at the current support in itself, but also to take into account its durability when extending or reducing the rights of organisations by crossing categories. One important guarantee change in the proposal is that churches are not registered with recognition, but within the framework of judicial proceedings, except for the establishment of established church status. The proposed legislation describes this as:. The religious community with legal personality, with the exception of established churches, is registered by the Metropolitan Tribunal. A cornerstone of the separation between the state and the church is declared by the sentence that the State cannot or may not operate a body for the management, supervision of religious communities, nor can it be created, or that the wording ensures independence that the decision of the religious community based on an internal rule cannot be amended or overruled by a public body, that it has no authority to deal with disputes arising from internal relations which are not governed by the law. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us is in line with the observations of the Constitutional Court and the relevant international organisations and provides a predictable, objective, clear set of criteria for religious communities, guaranteeing the separation of the state and the church, while providing cooperation and financial support in the context of public interest objectives. In view of what has been said, I respectfully ask you to support this proposal in the final vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-12-11-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The minority opinion cannot be expressed because there is no rapporteur in the Chamber. I am now asking Mr Miklós Soltész, State Secretary, as rapporteur, if you would like to take the opportunity to speak. Your budget is 10 minutes, and you know very well, Secretary of State, that what is being said now will come down from 10 minutes in terms of closing. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-12-11-51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Thank you very much to the Legislative Committee and the Committee of Nationalities for discussing both the amendments and the whole law. I also thank you for your positive feedback both at committee meetings and here in Parliament. If there is any further question as to how this law goes on, then, of course, in the end, I will respond. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-12-11-52	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll let you know how much time you have left in accordance with the time frame you've spent. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. I now give the floor to Dr. Rónayné Slaba Ewa Maria, rapporteur for the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary related to the debate. Here you are, Madam Speaker, the floor is yours.
u2018-12-11-53	Panie Marszałku, dziękuję za udzielenie mi głosu. Mr President, Thank you for the floor. As a spokesperson requested by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, I would like to inform you briefly that our committee is a nationality item on the right of freedom of conscience and freedom of religion and on the status of churches, religious groups and religious communities of 2011 CCVI. T/3618. At its meeting held on 4 December 2018, the Parliamentary Decision on certain house rules was put on the agenda and the Parliamentary Decision 44-45. It held a detailed discussion of the bill on the basis of Article 5 of the Act. The committee of the bill is the resolution house rule 32. In examining the provisions of its notification under paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act, i.e. the whole of the bill, it concluded that they comply with Article 44 of the HSZ. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. The Committee did not take a position on the amendments tabled to the bill and did not intend to make an amendment, so the Committee decided not to submit an amendment closing a detailed debate. At its meeting, the Committee decided by 12 votes in favour, no abstentions and no votes against, that the detailed discussion of the bill was closed on 4 December 2018. The committee proposes that the bill be adopted. Dziekuję za uwagę. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-12-11-54	Thank you very much, Madam Speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I will ask my fellow Members if someone would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Miklós Soltés, on behalf of the rapporteur, if he would like to respond to what has been said and what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-12-11-55	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. In conclusion, I would just like to say that after a long debate, we have reached a situation where we can implement the bill that we have been waiting for for for three years by a two-thirds vote. Three years ago, it failed in spite of previous opposition promises; I understand that now part of the opposition supports the bill. A bill that actually corrects, corrects the suggestion, the request that has been raised either by the Court of Justice of the European Union or by the Constitutional Court, and will certainly implement all kinds of practices of religious freedom in Hungary, ensures all its legal aspects. I would therefore like to thank you very much for your participation in both the general and the detailed debate, and I would also like to thank the committee on nationality for taking part in all of this, and thank you for the support proposals of Members who will support the law in the end, because it makes sense if we can think together on this. Thank you all for your work in this regard, too. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-12-11-56	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. The Commission's reports on the Hungary Helps programme and the final amendment proposal are now under discussion. Government referral T/3625. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available to all of them on the parliamentary IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, and I will give the floor to Tamás Herczeg, the rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[10.10]]
u2018-12-11-57	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting last Thursday on 6 December 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/3625. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment and the summary report were adopted by 23 votes to two, with six abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian government is convinced that the right way to manage migration is not to bring people from countries affected by humanitarian disasters to Hungary, but to bring help where it is needed. In other words, assistance in troubled areas in crisis regions can be much more effective and not only symptomatic. This is what Hungary's name is saying, so it is trying to answer one of the great global problems of modern-day migration. Hungary helps, with this programme, which is present on all continents except Australia, as I understand it. The program is not only about that, but it is a key part of helping persecuted Christian communities. This is due to the fact that Hungary is a country of Christian culture and, as such, it is primarily a duty to help Christian communities. Christianity is the most persecuted religion in the world today. Today, more than half of people who are discriminated against worldwide because of their religion are Christians. The main feature of the programme is that it does not provide assistance to those in need through large international agencies, which do not rarely cost 30-40 percent of the costs for administrative fees or programme costs, but in the most direct way possible, in such a way as to make the most of it. It is important to note that the Hungarian Helps programme is not established with the adoption of this bill, and has already included a number of successful projects: for example, the construction of schools in Kurdistan, Iraq, the restoration of homes destroyed in the war in the Province of Nineveh in Northern Iraq, education and humanitarian projects in Syria and Lebanon. These results demonstrate that the programme works well. The bill before us does not change the essential content of the programme. The main change is to create a new agency for the successful, visible and transparent implementation of Hungarian humanitarian programmes, accompanied by an economical donation method involving less administration. We are convinced that this is a structure that can serve as an example for other countries. Dear House, During both the original creation and the general debate of this bill, an exemplary unity was formed between the parliamentary parties. In the hope of maintaining this, I ask my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-11-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask Mr. Miklós Soltész, Secretary of State, if he would like to live with his national expo. [[Miklós Soltész: At the end.]] He doesn't want to, and then he wants to respond in the closet. I am now asking my fellow Members, because the appointed Committee on Foreign Affairs did not say that someone wished to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. On behalf of the author, I give the floor to State Secretary Miklós Soltész. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-12-11-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would just like to point out, very briefly, two things from this bill. One is indeed what Mr Herczeg mentioned, and that is that we know that there is a great deal of trouble in the world, and we know that they are living in very great difficulties and are living in very great poverty and poverty, some nations or parts of the continents, but we also know that the management of migration that has now started around the world does not solve this problem from a humanitarian or economic point of view. It is therefore the responsibility of countries or continents who, where appropriate, can or may want to help, and it is clear that local assistance should be implemented. The Hungarian Government, the vast majority of Hungarian people, has been on this path for three and a half years, and that is why it is important to implement this program. I would only add in parentheses that the Secretary of State, Azbej Tristan, who is responsible for this task, is still in an area where Christian believers were murdered a few weeks ago, and there they are helping and, where appropriate, trying to provide health assistance through Hungary or bringing survivors to Hungary. Hungary has provided a great deal of help over the last few years that the world's public opinion has been paying attention to, and now more and more countries are joining in and trying to implement their own assistance programme, either on the basis of the Hungarian model or together with Hungary. I think that this certainly raises Hungary from a diplomatic point of view, and the Hungarian people are not proud, but they can rightly say that we do help and help those in distress. In this programme, the work that has been done so far, I think it has been very difficult from one side to the other, but it must be continued. Thank you very much to all of the parliamentary parties who make this programme their own, help and support. Believe me, those sitting on the opposition side are much better than helping and supporting illegal migration. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-11-60	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. The Commission's reports for the 2021 census and the final amendment proposal are now under discussion. The government referral is T/3609. The Commission is available to all of us on the House's IT network together with the non-individual documents received. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Dávid Héyj, rapporteur of the committee. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-12-11-61	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 6 December 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/3609 on the 2021 census. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 24 votes in favour, 1 against and 6 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The 2016 CLV on official statistics. Law 8. In line with the Hungarian traditions, the Hungarian Central Statistical Office listed the implementation of the census among its mandatory tasks. A complete census is the only data source that ensures full coverage and territorial detail of the data, and that information on the smallest unit of society and economy can be combined in all respects to meet domestic and international research needs. This bill seeks to regulate the process of handling and using the data collected, based on and adapted to the European Union's legislation, in such a way that they are unable to identify a person, since the implementation of the census is not only a domestic obligation but also an EU obligation. These obligations are met by the bill. One example is that data on residence, marital status, economic activity will be collected on the basis of Regulation (EC) No 763/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill guarantees that the data collected should only be used for statistical purposes, which ensures that the individual data of the reporting agents cannot be disclosed in an identifiable manner and that they cannot be used for other purposes. The use of data for statistical purposes is guaranteed both by the bill and by the law on official statistics and by EU legislation on European statistics. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the details discussed at the plenary session of the House and at the committee meeting, the bill certainly deserves support. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-11-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, I now ask Mr. Miklós Soltész, Secretary of State, whether he wishes to speak now or at the end. [[Miklós Soltész: At the end.]] Just in the closet. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform this House that the designated Justice Committee has not presented a rapporteur. There are now speeches to be made by its spokespersons. First, I give the floor to Mr Félix Farkas, rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, who is involved in the debate. Here you go, Mr. Speaker. You have the floor. [[10.20]]
u2018-12-11-63	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary is responsible for the implementation of Article 10/2014 on certain house rules. Parliamentary resolution rules 44-45. In accordance with Article 4 of the Act of Accession, T/3609 on the 2021 census was carried out. Detailed discussion of bill No. 1. The committee for the bill is the house rule 32. In examining the provisions of the notification referred to in paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act, i.e. the whole of the bill, it concluded that it complied with the house rule 44. Paragraph 1 of this Article meets the requirements of the legal system as a whole, complies with the obligations arising from international law and European Union law and complies with the professional requirements of the legislation. The Committee did not comment on the amendments tabled to the bill, nor did it intend to make any further amendments, so it did not submit an amendment closing a detailed debate. An amendment was discussed before the in-depth discussion held by the Committee in the drafting of the Commission's opinion, but finally the Commission's proposal for an amendment was rejected. The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary, together with the Association of National National Governments, will establish its final position on the nationalities section of the 2021 Census Act, and, if necessary, the Committee will submit a separate amendment during the spring session. The committee decided, with 12 votes in favour, to close the detailed discussion of the bill on 4 December 2018, without abstention or opposition. On the basis of the above, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary is the T/3609 on the 2021 census. It agrees with and proposes the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-11-64	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Ritter, a representative of the nationality committee. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-12-11-65	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Mr President, Dear Parliament, On behalf of myself and of the Germans in Hungary, I applied to speak about the fact that I think it is clear and well-known to everyone today that the Hungarian government of the time decided on expulsion and expulsion on 22 December 1945. The regulation was published on 29 December. This was based on the principle of the collective responsibility of the German minority in Hungary, and it was considered as a reason for evacuation if, at the time of the 1941 census, a person declared himself to be a German national or a German native language. The banishment began on 19 January 1946, the first train started from Budaörs. In three years, between 220 and 250 thousand people were expelled from Hungary. According to estimated data, the number of residents remaining in Hungary was estimated to be at least 300,000 after the expulsion. It is typical that, due to the fears and trials of that time, only 22 450 German native speakers and 2617 German nationalities were admitted in the 1949 census. The Hungarian Parliament held the Memorial Day of Vertreibung in November 2007, here in Parliament, and in 2012 the 88/2012. In the parliamentary decision and in 2013 in the 103rd parliamentary decision, the Hungarian Parliament declared 19 January, the anniversary of the beginning of the expulsion in 1946, a memorial day for the removal and expulsion of the Germans in Hungary. In connection with the 70th anniversary, let me quote one sentence from Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's speech at the commemoration of 19 January in Budaörs:. The official designation was emancipation, but this word had nothing to do with reality. What was called evacuation was, in fact, the looting and chasing of Hungarian swabs. They were deprived of their homes and their country. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I thought it was important to quote and say this so that everyone could understand what is still a very painful wound in the German community in Hungary, and it is my duty to read the resolution No 151 of the National Government of Germans on Saturday 8 December 2018, according to which point 1 of the General Assembly of the National Government of Germans of Hungary T/3609. The adoption of the bill on the 2021 census is not supported. 2. The General Assembly of the National Government of Germans in Hungary asks Mr.Imre Ritter, a German Member of Parliament in Hungary, not to support the bill in its content submitted by the government, or to do everything to ensure that, during the 2021 census, the reporting agent does not have to give his family and first name in a mandatory manner, that the anonymousness of the reporting agent, the interconnection of individual state registers with the census data, or that the question of nationality should be raised. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In the last nearly a year and for about a decade before that, I did nothing but try to convince the Germans in Hungary that there was no evacuation and expulsion in 46 because there was a census of 41, but because it was an inhumane world where everything could be done. Nevertheless, a lot of people still have fear in them today, and it's a question that can't be decided based on mathematics, law and arguments, where most people decide based on their emotions, instincts, conscience; if they think about it and hurt, they don't accept it if they think about it and their stomach narrows down, they don't accept it. I'm asking everyone to take this into account. We did not have time, in spring we will make an opinion agreed by nationalities, and, if this is justified, I will present an amendment to this at the beginning of the spring session. For my part, I will abstain from voting tomorrow because of what has been said. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-11-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I now give the floor to Secretary of State, Miklós Soltész.
u2018-12-11-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I thank the speakers and the speakers of the various committees, Dávid Héjj, and even Félix Farkas, for their support, but I also thank Mr Imre Ritter for his comments and comments. Obviously, one understands personally, accepting emotional comments that cannot be rationally explained, and it is perfectly understandable what you have said. The expulsions and persecutions in 1946-47 and thereafter, I would add, have actually left deep wounds in Hungarian society, which are understandable, affecting other nationalities. However, this is also true, unfortunately, for the period before 1945, and thus during World War II, our Jewish compatriots. I think that we live in a completely different world, we can't live in fear, we can't live in the atmosphere that marked the 60-70 years ago. You know, unfortunately, when dictatorships come, they don't choose what kind of data is collected, what data is collected by a census law, then unfortunately, they find the people they consider responsible for their crime for some reason. [[10.30]] And for that reason, I must say that we have repeatedly apologized in hindsight, not by our own system, to the ethnic groups against which they have done so, but it must be said now. But this census law is independent of that. In 21 countries, the census is conducted in the same way as this bill will carry out its task. It is perfectly understandable what you have said, Congressman, that we are looking forward to your possible amendment, and I fully understand your abstention tomorrow. By the way, the government will continue to maintain all that has been presented so far, and thank you very much for both pro-government and opposition support in the implementation of the law. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-11-68	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. The Commission's reports on the day of Hungarian-Székely accession and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. Presentation submitted by István Szávay, Jobbik, László Keresztes, LMP, Zsolt Molnár, MSZP, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, Dialogue, László Szászfalvi, KDNP, and Károly Panczél and Tamás Herczeg, Fidesz, representatives H/2681. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are also available on the House's IT network for all of us. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mr Tamás Herczeg, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2018-12-11-69	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting last Thursday, 6 December 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed the H/2681 on the day of Hungarian-Székely accession. No... [[The sound system's clicking.]]
u2018-12-11-70	Excuse me, Congressman, could you move your phone, please? [[It's happening.]] Thank you very much. Here you go.
u2018-12-11-71	Excuse me. ... the committee adopted the summary report and the summary amendment by 30 votes in favour, with two abstentions, without voting against. Ladies and gentlemen, Article D of the Hungarian Fundamental Law states that:... Hungary bears responsibility for the fate of Hungarians living outside its borders, promotes the survival and development of their communities, supports their efforts to preserve their Hungarians, enforce their individual and community rights, establish their community self-governments, thrive in the homeland, and also promote their cooperation with each other and with Hungary. , and this text is significantly more committed and more powerful than the wording of the previous Constitution. The issue of Hungarians is a matter on which national agreement can be reached, such as this proposal for a resolution, which is supported not only by six parties outside the Democratic Coalition, but also by national representatives. Dear House, In recent years, the government has done much to support Hungarians beyond the borders, both politically and economically. In addition to funding economic development projects, it has expressed its support at international level for the Szekler autonomy issue. The resolution proposal not only strengthens the Hungarian-Szekler relationship, but also remembers a historical event: on 16 October 1848 the Szekler National Assembly of Clay Walls met with 60,000 Szeklers, in which the Szeklers stood up for the laws of April 1848, the Hungarian nation, and fought against the masses armed by the Habsburg Empire. So this is the day of the beginning of the Szekler People's Uprising, the day when the Szeklers joined the 1848-49 War of Independence. With the heroism and determination of the Szeklery, he expressed his love and loyalty to the Hungarian nation, for which he still deserves respect and leadership. The proposal for a resolution therefore plans to declare this day, the starting day of the Szekler National Assembly, the day of Hungarian-Szekler union. Dear House, The proposal for a decision states, among other things, that it supports and encourages the announcement of proposals relating to the event, the organisation of school commemorations, study trips, the holding of conferences related to the subject, the preparation of educational materials, audiovisual materials, publications for the dissemination of information, and the production of memorials related to the event. It also expresses, of course, what is evidentiary, that the Szeklery is an integral part of the Hungarian nation, and that we form a unity together. Ladies and gentlemen, As I mentioned earlier, in the context of the proposal for a resolution, a political unity has emerged which is not widely seen, as the better proposer has joined the proposal for a resolution, with KDNP, MSZP, dialogue, LMP and Fidesz representatives. I would ask my fellow Members to support the proposal for a resolution. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-11-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. Now, I'm gonna ask you, would you like to speak with one of the authors, or just at the end? [[For signal:]] [[For signal:]] In the end, thank you very much, in the closing. I'm going to ask you, on behalf of the government, if you'd like to speak with one of the Secretarys of State. (To sign:) Mr. Miklós Soltész Secretary of State. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-12-11-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The government supports it naturally, and it is not even a question of us, because since 2010 it has been clear in our Fundamental Law that all Hungarians, wherever they live in the world, are part of the Carpathian Basin or the whole world, a united Hungarian nation. And, as the Member said, the Szeklery lives its history as a united part of the Hungarian nation for a thousand years, and it is quite clear that when, in the midst of the difficult storms of history, they have stood up for the united Hungarian nation and all that they have done, whether in the past centuries or in the past decades or in the past years for survival, for the survival of Hungarians, we thank them in hindsight and give them a sign of this in some way together. I thank you very much for the unity of Parliament in this overall national case, and we will definitely continue to support this matter. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-11-74	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, No rapporteur was set up by the designated National Assembly Committee. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I'm going to ask the authors if someone wants to use the closing option. [[On the sign of Charles Panczél:]] I give the floor to Mr Károly Panczél as rapporteur. Here you go.
u2018-12-11-75	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the authors, I thank you very much for the support that has been expressed in recent weeks, whether in committee meetings, legislative committee meetings or here in Parliament on this matter. There must be, and national policy is an area where there must be national minimums. This has been the case in recent times when most of the Parliament stood up against the Ukrainian language law, for example, and we took a stand, so it was when the Minority SafePack initiative was supported by a large part of the Parliament and stood up for it in a resolution proposal. This is the case now that six out of the seven parties supported this proposal for a resolution, with two proposals for amendments. Both the Legislative Committee and the Committee on National Inclusion supported these two amendments, which further confirms that it is not just a simple union between Hungarians and Szeklers, but it is about the Hungarian-Szekler unity, which is what we want to emphasise in this regard. We also supported the amendment that stated that the Szekler people are an integral part of the Hungarian nation. And, of course, it is also important that what has already been mentioned here at today's meeting is that we would like to commemorate the Clay Wall Szekler National Assembly that stood up for the April acquis on 16 October 48, in favour of the Hungarian Revolution of 48. I would ask you to support this proposal for a resolution tomorrow as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-11-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws relating to the production and dissemination of films and the discussion of the summarised amendment are now in order. [[10.40]] The government referral is T/3376. The Commission is available to all of us on the House's IT network together with the non-individual documents received. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mr László Horváth, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-12-11-77	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I am informed that T/3376 on the amendment of certain laws relating to the production and distribution of films was discussed at the Legislative Committee meeting on 6 December 2018. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 23 votes in favour, 7 against and 1 abstention. Due to the welcome international success of Hungarian films, special attention is being paid to the Hungarian film industry. In order to maintain Hungary's positive position in the film industry, it is worth reviewing the relevant legislation from time to time. The current amendment to the film law adopted unanimously at the end of 2003 allows for a comprehensive fine-tuning of the film law based on the practical experience of the film industry and the application of the law. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments to the bill concern three laws: the motion picture law, the rules on broadcasting and the digital transition, and the law on media services and mass communication. On the one hand, the amendment of the Motion Picture Act clarifies what constitutes filmmaking and, on the other hand, clarifies the concept of national film wealth, so it will be clear in the case of film works which property rights fall within the scope of national film wealth. The proposal also amends the procedural charges for the use of public space for film shooting, both because of the additional costs and the follow-up to inflation. Dear House, The proposal establishes a television film mecenature and a TV film college to support film creations. The establishment of a mecenary tour requires a clear distinction between the tasks of the mecenature and the Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund and, in this context, clarification of the rules on the Fund's grants in accordance with the new function. The proposal also includes rules on the delegation, acquittal and termination of the mandate of the members of the TV Film College. To sum up, the amendments contained in this bill serve two main objectives: firstly, to ensure that the legal background of the film works is properly adapted to the needs of the motion picture industry, and secondly, to create and create works of high artistic value, thus strengthening not only the film industry but also the Hungarian culture as a whole. I think that these are objectives that are eligible for us all, so please support the adoption of the bill. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-11-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, whether he wishes to speak now or at the end. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much, and at the end of the day, the Secretary of State will respond as rapporteur. I would like to inform this House that the designated Committee on Culture has not presented a rapporteur. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. He's supposed to have the opportunity to make a closing statement to the Secretary of State, but there's no debate. [[For signal:]] you can keep the closing word accordingly. Do you want to live with it? [[Csaba Dömötör: Briefly.]] Your time frame is ten minutes. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-12-11-79	I feel the pressure not to take advantage of the ten-minute time frame, so I would just like to say briefly, Mr President. The purpose of the bill we are discussing is twofold. On the one hand, we want Hungarian film production to grow further, but at the same time high quality works that also strengthen national pride. We didn't start from scratch, because in recent years Hungarian films have achieved great success, and in recent years, works with the support of the film fund have won 310 international awards. To mention only the most outstanding things: the Oscar Prize, the Golden Globe, the Grand Prix of Cannes, the Golden Bear of Berlin and the Student-Oscar Prize. Last year only 70 festival awards, including 12 public awards, were awarded to Hungarian films. It is also a very important fact that the audience of Hungarian films in Hungarian cinemas exceeded 1.2 million, this is a ten-year peak and the beginning of an encouraging process. Another important fact is that film production costs in Hungary exceeded 100 billion forints in 2016 and 2017, and the fact that one world star post pictures of emerging Budapest is very good for Hungary's national image. The current bill aims to make regulation even more effective, the changes affect the concept of film wealth, trust rights, support rules, the use of minors and, inter alia, frequency recovery procedures. But what is perhaps most important, and I would like to emphasise this in particular, because the opposition has also partly raised this issue: a TV-film mecenature programme is being created, which will allow further quality works to be created, including works with historical themes. The amendments tabled since the first debate will clearly delineate the film fund and the TV cinema programme and clarify the relevant tasks of the Media Council. To sum up: these amendments can meet the needs of the film industry at the same time, while increasing and enriching Hungarian culture with further high-quality works, which is why, in our opinion, the bill we are discussing is suitable and worthy to support all parties with a good heart. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-11-80	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. The Commission's reports on the National Communications and Information Council and the summary amendment proposal are now under discussion. Presentation by our fellow Members Erik Bánki and László Salacz T/3632. The Commission is available to all on the Parliament's IT network with non-autonomous texts. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee.
u2018-12-11-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 6 December 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/3632 on the National Communications and Information Council. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 23 votes in favour, 7 against and 2 abstentions. The aim of the proposal is to extend the tasks of the Government's consulting and advisory body on IT and communications matters, the National Communications and Information Council, hereinafter referred to as the NHIT. In addition to what has been done so far, the appointment of the president, vice-president and members of the NHIT will be transferred to the Prime Minister. Detailed rules for operation will be laid down in a government decree in the future. Since NHIT is the government's advisory and opinion body and is not a decision-making body affecting the rights or obligations of third parties, it is therefore appropriate that its operation, members and financing be determined by the government and not by an independent body. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of what has been said, I ask you to support the bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-11-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Now I will ask László Salacz again whether he would like to speak now as the rapporteur, or at the end of the conversation he will give his comments. [[For signal:]] You're gonna take that opportunity in the closet. [[10.50]] I would like to ask the Secretary of State, Ákos Kara, on behalf of the government, if you would like to speak. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2018-12-11-83	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Digitalisation constantly and inevitably transforms everyday life, the functioning of economic life, the organisation of public administration. In recent years, the government has done much to make every Hungarian person, every Hungarian family, every Hungarian local community and every company operating in Hungary a winner of digitalization. This objective will not change in the future, for example through country-wide network development. From January, the chapter 2.0 of the., Super-fast internet programme begins, where the government primarily prefers optical networking, but at least 100 megabit/secundum bandwidth. The Student Network program continues. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sure you know that the aim here is to ensure that in Hungarian public schools, including vocational education and training schools, by the end of 2022 the broad band and wifi will continue in every room, in practical places where knowledge, knowledge, professional knowledge can be acquired, available, and, of course, other skills and skills development programmes will continue in the country. The bill we are discussing is also well suited to the government's measures to strengthen infocommunications and information society. In order to enable the State to keep pace with technological developments, it is necessary that experts examine the links and suitability of IT purchases to public IT systems, taking into account, of course, the latest digital technologies, trends and innovative tools. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, The National Communications and Informatics Council is an organization with sufficient experience and a comprehensive approach in the field of information technology, which has already effectively supported the government's work as an advisory body. In order to make the stated efforts a reality, the government considers it appropriate to play a more prominent role in supporting and preparing decision-making processes. In order to achieve this goal, it is necessary to reform and redefine the legal background of the National Communications and Information Council. In view of all this, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill when voting. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-12-11-84	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. I ask my fellow Members that someone would like to take part in the debate and speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed... or, I am sorry, the debate is closed, not the general debate; we are over that. I would like to ask the rapporteur if he would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. Thank you very much. I would like to inform the House that the decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. The Commission's reports on the amendment of Law I of 2004 on sport in relation to the Olympic allowance and the discussion of the summarised amendment are now taking place. T/3634 submitted by our Fidesz colleagues Máté Kocsis, Erik Bánki, Gergely Gulyás and Mónika Dunai. The Commission is available to all of us on the House's IT network, together with the Commission's non-individual documents received. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, rapporteur of the committee. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-12-11-85	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 6 December 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed the amendment of Act I of 2004 on Sport in relation to Olympic Benefits T/3634. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article T/2014 on certain house rules. Parliamentary resolution 46. By 23 votes in favour, with 3 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The current legislation contains adverse provisions for Olympic medalists who have won more than one medal for our country, regardless of whether it is gold, silver or bronze medals. According to the current rules, multiple gold medalists receive 20% of the Olympic prize for the first gold medal, the other gold medals and the silver and bronze medals of the champions are not taken into account at all. And our medalists with more silver and bronze medals will receive and receive only one medal. This situation is dealt with by this amendment, which fully appreciates each medal by giving our multiple Olympic medalists the full amount of the medal fee for each medal, recognising the exceptional performance of sportsmen behind all medals and proclaiming their positive impact on the nation. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill also settles the situation of the medalist paralympics before 1984 by making medal paralympics eligible from 1955 onwards. On the other hand, it clarifies the provisions governing the procedure for initiating the application, given that the Olympic allowance will be established on the basis of the data contained in the register on the basis of ex officio and not on the basis of an application, according to the bill. In addition, the draft also settles the situation of the coaches, since in their case we cannot say that the previous system was fair. According to the amendment, the coach is still entitled to an allowance, but the amount after the post is much higher, total, i.e. 100 percent. In football, team sports and individual sports, the federal captain would also receive this increased 100 percent allowance. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft deserves support because it creates a fairer regulation than the current legislation, in order to appreciate multiple Olympic, Paralympic, Deaflympian and chessloimpian medalists and professionals who prepare them, in return for their many years of superhuman work and efforts to make our country famous and aging through their sports success. Ladies and gentlemen, We warmly recommend this bill to this House for adoption. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-12-11-86	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I'm going to ask you whether you'd like to tell me now or just in the closet. [[For signal:]] [[For signal:]] Thank you very much. I will ask Mrs Tünde Szabó, State Secretary, if you would like to speak on behalf of the government. (To be indicated:) Here you go, Madam Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-12-11-87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The outstanding results and recognition of these sports results are important tasks, since the superhuman work of the athlete is a result of recognition and glory for all Hungarians, which we can all be very proud of. This is why we believe it is important that our athletes who bring glory receive merit and respect for their performances, the resignations and sacrifices invested in this. This is why, among other things, sports law regulates the right of Olympic champions and medalists, as well as professionals and training coaches to assist them, to receive an allowance. It is not only about the Olympics, but also about the paralympics, the chess club and the Olympics of the deaf, and the results achieved there are rewarded by the state. The purpose of the bill tabled by the MEPs' motion is to strengthen the recognition of the results of the Olympic allowance. On the basis of the bill, the total amount of each medal, which brings with it an increase in the amount of widow's allowance, will be counted for each medal. [[11.00]] The intention of the government is the same as the proposal for an amendment to raise the coach's allowance, since behind an outstanding sporting success there is not only the athlete, but also the coach's performance. Therefore, in the future, the coach will be entitled to the same amount as his medal allowance, which sometimes represents a 50% increase. It is worth mentioning that, in addition to the annuity of the nation's athlete, the rightholder will also be entitled to the Olympic allowance, while the adoption of the bill's annuity system will result in a worthy and competitive recognition of the performance of athletes at European level. It should also be pointed out that the new regulation will be put in place, as the Member said, the situation of the medal paralympics before 84, since the proposal also rewards the performance of the results achieved from 1955. In addition, the Olympic allowance will no longer be established on the basis of an application, but in the future in an ex officio procedure, which will also solve a long-standing issue and place a clear responsibility on the public side. At the same time, we need to see that the new system, the ex officio determination of entitlement and the conversion of the benefit of those already entitled to annuity starting in January raises significant expectations of the professional wallet implementing the measures, which also requires cooperation between public bodies in the field of sport and national sports associations. In order to ensure the smoothness of the administration at hand, there was a need for a number of amendments, which are included in the summarised amendment proposal. Dear Parliament, Mr President, The adoption of the motion by the summary amendment proposes a worthy recognition of outstanding sports results, so Hungary can be proud of the Hungarian athletes as well as its system of financial appreciation for our athletes. Accordingly, the Government of Hungary supports T/3634. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament to support it in the final vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-12-11-88	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the designated Cultural Committee has not presented a rapporteur. I am now asking my fellow Members if someone would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I will ask Mrs Mónika Dunai, as rapporteur, that she wishes to make use of the possibility of closing. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Here you go, Congresswoman. You have the floor.
u2018-12-11-89	Thank you very much. I would like to thank my fellow Members for their attitude in the debates and in the Legislative Committee, including comments and amendments. I think that this has made this proposal even more complete, and I would ask you to support the proposal with your votes in the final vote. I also have the hope of saying this because there was no vote in the debate on reports in the Legislative Committee at the final vote. Everyone supported or abstained. Please do the same in the final vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-12-11-90	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, The decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain domestic and other related laws and the summary amendment proposal are now under discussion. The government referral is T/2930. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available to all of them on the parliamentary information network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. The debate will be the first to hear the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, who will interpret the committee's position. I give the floor to Mr. László Vécsey. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-12-11-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 29 November 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/2930 amending certain domestic laws and other related laws. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 25 votes in favour, with 8 abstentions. The bill is a comprehensive package of proposals, which will result in a total of 32 amendments to legislation. I would just like to mention a few of the many major changes to you. One of the most important parts of the bill is perhaps the implementation of the central storage of images and audio recordings. As a result, the technical and technical conditions for the storage of recordings recorded by public area supervision, the passenger operator and the road operator need to be established at the first stage in the administrative area of the capital. This will be followed by the establishment of a national network, where the transmission of data to the central storage site is already involved by rural public area supervisors and road operators, image recorders and traffic police equipment installed by the police, tolling and toll control, as well as financial services companies. A further key part of the proposal is the amendment of the Water Management Act and the implementation of changes to the information security organisation system. The latter is also linked, for example, to the rationalisation of the existing cybersecurity structure. Ladies and gentlemen, Overall, therefore, it can be concluded that we will decide on a well-thought-out, well-prepared bill, and I therefore ask for its support when the bill is adopted. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2018-12-11-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. Now the minority opinion of the Legislative Committee will be given. I give the floor to Congressman László Varga, notary of the Parliament. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-12-11-93	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Member, who spoke before me, also said that this salad law contains amendments to 32 laws. In a way, it is a common technique, a wide variety of proposals being discussed together, and obviously there are proposals which are unacceptable to the opposition. It is therefore very difficult to talk about forward-looking elements and it is difficult to establish a clear and normal resolution. Of course, the whole package is unacceptable to us, but let me highlight one, which at least partly represents progress on a specific matter, which I have brought to this House many times. I have said many times that in connection with the authorisation of previously unauthorized wells, you are planning to throw an insufferable, enormous burden on hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families. Many families would have been affected by this authorisation obligation by the deadline of 31 December, and would have been well over 100 thousand forints. I have often drawn attention to the fact that this is unacceptable, that they should be exempted on a social basis, but most of all it should be given time for the Parliament to discuss this in the framework of a comprehensive regulation, in particular in accordance with the Fundamental Law. After all, you have already made a presentation in this House on this matter, the Water Management Act, at the end of the spring session, sent back by the President of the Republic, more specifically to the Constitutional Court, and the Constitutional Court found it to be against the law. Now we're practically on one of the last sittings. Tomorrow is the final vote for this salad bill. This is what you have included in the amendment of the Water Management Act to push up to 31 December 2020 this original moratorium until 31 December 2020. It is possible to agree with this, because the situation is inadequate for Hungarian citizens to authorise their own types of wells, but at the same time I would point out that the Committee on Agriculture voted off a comprehensive proposal for a resolution last week, which would have regulated this issue in accordance with the requirements of water base protection and the interests of the Hungarian rural population, and would have given the government such obligations. [[11.10]] It should have been accepted that it would have been possible to go further on this issue and find real solutions, but they did not. I would like to say that, in order to avoid being in the same position in two years' time, it is necessary, at the beginning of the spring session, to adopt a comprehensive amendment to the Water Management Act, in order to provide healthy drinking water to the population in the Hungarian countryside and to provide adequate water for their home watering, so that they can do so free of charge for their own welfare, this water is at their disposal. To this end, a proposal should be adopted. Take into account the words of hundreds of thousands of Hungarians! Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the lines of DK and LMP.]]
u2018-12-11-94	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Now I'm going to ask Secretary Charles Kontra if he would like to speak now, or just in the closing. [[Károly Kontrát: In closing, Mr President.]] Just in the closet. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone would like to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary of State Károly Kontra to keep the closing. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-12-11-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, 15 amendments were tabled to the proposed legislation, one of which was withdrawn by the rapporteur, and 6 out of the remaining 14 amendments, which were either fully or with minor clarifications, were supported. The amendments were also discussed by the Defence and Police Committee and the Judicial Committee. In particular, I would like to highlight György Balla's amendment, which will make it free to carry out chimney sweeping work even in municipal apartments, so the free chimney sweep has been extended with additional personnel. The chimney sweeping work will also be free of charge for the tenants of local government-owned apartments for the first and second time. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that in the general debate I have already said that the data protection proposals made by the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information have been taken into account in the submitted bill, and this proposal has been prepared in such a way, so it is not true that the previous attack, which was initiated unfoundedly, has been claimed that these proposals have not been taken into account. The bill ensures that the progress made so far in the area of law enforcement and the fight against terrorism is maintained and adapted to the changed situation that has arisen in Europe as a result of illegal migration. Security will be the first in 2019, and the government will provide the necessary support in terms of resources and technical and legal instruments. I highlight the proposal on the development of salaries in relation to the career model of professional stock, which ensures the rate of 2019, and the Government will thus deliver on its promise of the new Service Act, which entered into force on 1 July 2015. I think it is very important for the professional stock. As regards the situation with regard to wells, I am confident that the adoption of the bill will give us the opportunity to adopt, in the period until 31 December 2020, a law that serves the interests of the Hungarian people and meets the expectations of both the Constitutional Court, the Fundamental Law and the President of the Republic, and best meets the interests of the Hungarian people. I would like to say that the Ministry of Interior is ready to launch discussions with all parliamentary parties to resolve this issue. I trust that together we will find the right solution for the interests of the Hungarian people. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you once again for the comments made in the debate, thank you for the amendments tabled, and I ask the Honourable Parliament to adopt the bill in the final vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-11-96	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain migration and related legislation and the summary amendment proposal are followed by a debate. The government referral is T/3366. The Commission is available to all of us on the Parliament's IT network with non-autonomous texts. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to our fellow Member, Mr Fazekas, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-12-11-97	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 29 November 2018, T/3366 on the amendment of certain laws relating to migration and related matters was discussed. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 25 votes in favour, with 7 abstentions. Allow me to briefly address the main elements of the bill before us. It will mean a major change in the legislation that third-country family members of Hungarian citizens no longer have the right to move and reside freely, but instead they will be subject to the general rules applicable to third-country nationals in accordance with the provisions of other EU Member States. Another important element is that, if the bill is adopted, the powers of control of the foreign police and asylum authorities can be increased, in order to prevent, detect and make control more effective. The bill contains a number of provisions in the field of foreign police licensing and expands the possibility of electronic administration, as the application will be submitted electronically after the amendment has been adopted. However, biometric data will continue to be recorded by the authorities, so that stakeholders will continue to appear in person. The package of proposals, including a number of clarification and codification clarification provisions, concerns, among others, citizenship law, pension law or consular protection legislation. It provides the consular service with the latter access to the asylum register. According to the bill, legislation on legal assistance, the law on entry and residence of persons with the right of free movement and residence, the legislation on asylum and criminal record, and the law on the register of civil status still changes. If the proposal is adopted, most of the changes will enter into force on 1 January 2019, while some parts will only enter into force on July 2019. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of what has been said above, we can conclude that we can talk about a series of legislative proposals involving a number of positive changes, and I would therefore ask for your support for the adoption of the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-11-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State, as rapporteur, if he would like to make his comments in the closing remarks. [[Károly Kontra: In the closing word.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I now give the floor to György Hubay, rapporteur of the designated Defence and Police Committee. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-12-11-99	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, Please allow me to inform you that T/3366 was discussed and discussed at the meeting of the Defence and Police Committee on 22 November 2018. Proposal for a Law amending certain laws on migration and related matters. The proposed amendment to the bill was unanimously supported by the Committee and the Committee presented the Commission's proposal to close the in-depth debate. In view of this, I ask this House to support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-11-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. I respectfully ask my fellow Members that someone wishes to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary of State Károly Kontra to keep the closing. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor. [[11.20]]
u2018-12-11-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before this House will ensure that the new challenges are met with alien police and asylum procedures. To this end, the proposal contains a number of provisions extending the powers of control of the Alien Police and Asylum Authority in order to enable authorities to comply more effectively and effectively with their existing control obligations under the law. Four amendments have been tabled to the bill, which have been examined and amended to take account of the text of the draft. The amendments were discussed by the Defence and Police Committee. Our wallet agreed with the opposition amendment proposal that the legislation on residence permits for other purposes should be deleted from the bill. If it is adopted, a law can be adopted to help increase the security of Hungarian citizens and Hungary by ensuring effective action against illegal immigration, and I therefore call on this House to support the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-11-102	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Next up is the 2015 XLII on the service relationship of professional staff of law enforcement bodies. Discussion of the Commission's reports on the amendment of law and other related laws and the summary amendment proposal. Government referral T/3615. The Commission is available to all of us on the Parliament's IT network, together with the non-autonomous texts received. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to our colleague László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-12-11-103	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee discussed at its meeting on 6 December 2018 the 2015 XLII on the service relationship of the professional staff of law enforcement bodies. T/3615 on the amendment of Act T/3615 and other related laws Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 23 votes in favour, 5 votes against and no abstentions. The aim of the bill is to establish a new statute for civil servants and government officials in the law enforcement sector, which can ensure that the staff concerned have a stable, predictable career and that the employers' organisations have a sufficiently flexible employment framework adapted to both the characteristics and the tasks performed. It is clear from the legislation that it is based on balanced regulation of rights and obligations, provides a substantial salary increase and allows for a predictable system of progress for those concerned. The law enforcement administrative service relationship will be a special relationship between the law enforcement body acting on behalf of the State and the law enforcement staff by appointment and acceptance. The further aim of the regulation is to introduce a uniform career with stable, predictable careers, and to ensure consistency, in addition to salary arrangements. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the interests of civil servants and government officials in the law enforcement sector, I ask you to support the bill when voting. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-11-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás informed me that he would like to make his comments in the closing remarks. I would like to inform my fellow Members that the designated Defence and Police Committee has not issued a rapporteur. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone would like to speak in the time frame on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás, as rapporteur, to keep the closing word. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-12-11-105	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr President, The bill includes a regulation that actually improves the wage position of around 12,000 law enforcement employees and stabilises their employment relationship. Before the adoption of the bill, I would like to emphasise once again that in the process of preparation, the Internal Affairs Stakeholder Council, the Police Sectoral Stakeholder Council, the Civil Service Stakeholder Forum and the National Civil Service Stakeholder Council were actively involved, and several of their proposals were incorporated into the norm. The bill will allow civil servants and government officials employed in the law enforcement sector, such as the police, the National Defence Service, the Counter-Terrorism Centre, national security services, professional disaster management organisations and prison enforcement organisations to establish a predictable system of advancement based on balanced regulation of rights and obligations, ensuring a substantial salary increase. Referring back to the parliamentary debate on the bill, I would like to reiterate that the proposal sets out general and specific conditions of application linked to the establishment of a legal relationship, which are stricter than before, in line with the law and national security interests in line with the bodies' responsibilities. At the same time, it is necessary to emphasise that the contribution to an impeccable lifestyle, to national security control, will only be a specific condition of application, but will only have to be enforced in a specific personal circle. I would also like to point out that there is no substantial change in working time, mandatory working time or working time rules compared to what has already been done, but a number of positive provisions, particularly concerning the eligibility of families, have been included in the law. In this connection, I would like to point out that, in the absence of the opposition amendment to the bill, only the pro-government amendments were incorporated into the norm. Overall, I believe that the proposal provides an appropriate framework for ensuring that civil society law enforcement personnel who have been left out of various sectoral careers and wage measures are placed in a situation that can be expected, planned and financially estimated with a new status. In view of the above, I ask that Parliament support the bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-11-106	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. The debate now follows on from the Commission's reports on the presentation of government administration and the summary amendment proposal. Government referral T/3610. The Commission is available to all of us on the Parliament's IT network, together with the non-autonomous texts received. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-12-11-107	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee discussed the T/3610 on Government Administration at its meeting on 6 December 2018. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be adopted by the Committee on 7 December 2018 in accordance with Article 46 of the House Rules. By 24 votes in favour, 7 votes against and 4 abstentions. Ensuring efficient and competitive government performance requires systemic coordination, regulation and development of personnel activities. The bill on the House's table aims to regulate the bodies and officials of government administration, as well as the leaders responsible for the management of their activities, with a code character. With this regulation, both the central and territorial structures of the public administration would have a single legal framework. For realistic reasons, the draft would require that all government administrations only employ as many government officials as are necessary for the performance of their tasks in a reasonable and economical manner. The establishment of the staff base is also intended to serve to make government operations more economical. The planned job-based staff management will allow the employer to carry out a more predictable job-based establishment plan with the relevant body. By eliminating the senior development system, the system would give real importance to benchmarking and would better encourage younger generation members, in particular through the possibility of achieving higher salaries. [[11.30]] Another positive point is that higher public sector salaries are increasingly closer to the wage levels of the competitive sector, resulting in substantial wage increases in a short period of time with good performance. It is also a point to support the proposal that, in addition to the other special benefits and benefits of government officials who have raised and found a family, the government intends to introduce support for the family formation of government officials. Dear Parliament, The proposal submitted should also be supported for reasons of rationality, professional and family policy. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-12-11-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, The minority opinion of the Legislative Committee is presented by Mr Gergely Arató. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-12-11-109	Mr President, Dear House, According to opposition members of the Legislative Committee, this bill represents a violation of the law similar to that of the slave law to be negotiated later today for those working in government and state administration. As the trade unions pointed out, among other things, during the trade union protest on Saturday, this bill has a number of adverse effects on government administration workers and makes them vulnerable. And since it is our view that it will make government officials vulnerable, it will also cause serious damage to citizens who expect this government to deal with their case professionally, fairly and quickly. Let me highlight a few of these points, let me start with the wage management right away. The wage-mass management that is proposed, along with the introduction of the Seniority principle, leads to the fact that, in essence, the wage increase of all government officials will depend exclusively on the favor of the bosses. It's not the performance, it's the gibberish, it's the gibberish, it's the way his boss thinks about it and, of course, the bosses of the bosses, the political leaders you put in charge of the government. From this point on, they will become vulnerable. Even though it is said that a 30-percent wage increase is linked to this law, it only means an increase in the wage weight; who gets it, then it is decided by the support of party loyalty and government policy, and not by professional achievement. While talking about family friendship in this bill, they reduce the basic freedom, so they reduce the time that civil servants or government officials can spend with their families and compensate for it only in the case of children. But even for the founders of the family with one child, this will be a loss, so they will have less freedom than before. The family of many children, my fellow Members, begins with the first child. If you don't support this, there won't be any later children. Similarly, the regulation that makes government officials completely vulnerable to overwork and, more specifically, labour organisation is unfair from now on. And I could go on for a long time. Perhaps it is also important to mention, and this is also a very important point, that, while introducing uniform, code-like legislation, the unfairness, the injustice that government officials directing the affairs of citizens in government offices receive much less wages and have much less rights than those working in the central administration, they do not remedy this unfairness, but, on the contrary, they are cemented. On the initiative and on the basis of a proposal from public sector trade unions, the opposition members of the Legislative Committee initiated amendments to the bill in 33 points to remedy the most serious injustices. Unfortunately, however, neither the government nor the Fidesz majority supported these proposals. We must therefore say that, although the government has allegedly allowed trade unions something at some point in its own amendment proposal, these are irrelevant points which do not concern important issues. I have to say, I can't even consider myself a beauty patch on the very ugly face of this law. Overall, we have to say that this is a law which is debauching, which undermines government officials as party servants, does not serve the interests of citizens, does not serve effective public administration, but destroys it, and these amendments, which are supported by the government, do not help. Neither the amendments nor the bill itself can be supported by opposition representatives. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-12-11-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Mr Balázs Orbán, State Secretary, has informed me that he wishes to respond to what has been said in the closing remarks. I would also like to inform you that the designated Justice Committee has not presented a rapporteur. I would like to ask you now that someone wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State to keep the closing. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-12-11-111	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, We believe that by submitting a proposal for a law on government administration, the government is taking another step towards improving Hungary's competitiveness, cutting red tape and more effective government work. We would also like to work to improve the financial appreciation of those working in the public administration and, in particular, in the central administration, and to give priority to government officials who have children and have a family. The bill, as we understand it, facilitates the establishment of a more efficient system of government administration, the establishment of a system of relations for the high-quality government officials of the nation, and also provides greater financial recognition for the service. I would like to inform you that, in order to ensure administrative reforms and reduction of bureaucracy, the current bill is both the majority and not the last process of what the government has been trying to do since 2010. One of the important goals of the government is to have only as many people and jobs as are needed in the central administration, but they can do this with such material and other appreciation that they have not, in fact, been able to do since the change of regime. If I may, I would like to give you a few thoughts on what Mr Arató has raised. On the one hand, I would like to deny the myth that there has been no consultation between trade unions and representatives of the government. Such negotiations have taken place, and at many points I think the government has been open to the proposal of the trade unions. In addition to that, I think that the operation of the previous government has made the administration vulnerable and deprived of rights. The neoliberal social and economic policy, or the related philosophy of the state, which meant wage cuts, which meant outsourcings, which meant management contracts, and which actually undermined the state's capacity to act, while at the same time contributing to the spread of bureaucracy, is the practice that we have wanted to reverse since 2010 and we did not want to continue. Indeed, I think that this may be a philosophical difference between us, but it is in order to protect bureaucracy and the financial resources used by taxpayers to operate the Hungarian state that it makes sense to link benchmarking with salary. This is a sad deficiency that has not taken place since the change of regime. This bill creates the objective conditions for this. In the course of the debate, most of the Commission's amendments included technical and substantive codification and substantive proposals relating to the opinions of trade unions. In addition, we can talk about a TAB-enlarged amendment proposal, which translates the necessary new legal institutions into sectoral law and the changing legal references. We think these amendments should be supported, and we ask all of the honourable Members and gentlemen to support this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-12-11-112	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Before I go any further, allow me to warmly welcome the delegation and members of the minority council of the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is in the diplomatic box, who are present here, wishing them a successful trial. Thank you very much. [[11.40]] Next up is the 2011 LXVI on the State Audit Office. Act 1 and Act CXCIX of 2011 on Public Service Officers. Discussion of the Commission's report on the amendment of the Act and of the draft amending proposal. The government referral is T/3633. The Commission is available to all of us on the IT network of the House, together with the related and received documents. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-12-11-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, [[His mic's creaking.]]
u2018-12-11-114	I'm sorry. I would also ask Congressman to move his phone outside a meter's distance. Thank you very much. You have the floor, please.
u2018-12-11-115	One more time. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 6 December 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2011 LXVI on the State Audit Office. Act 1 and Act CXCIX of 2011 on Public Service Officers. T/3633. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 23 votes in favour, 6 against and 3 abstentions. The amendment of the law before Parliament represents progress on several points. It manages the problems of coherence between the Law of the Court of Auditors and the Law of Public Service Officers, gives assurance of the independence of the State Audit Office of the organisation, contributes to the reduction of public bureaucracy, further increases the efficiency and effectiveness of public financial control and strengthens the role of the State Audit Office as exemplary. The Fundamental Law and Hungarian legislation guarantee the independence of the State Audit Office at international level. However, in the course of the time since the creation of the State Court of Auditors Act, the regulation that a number of issues relating to the relationship of the State Court of Auditors staff are not covered by the State Court of Auditors Act, but by the Public Service Officers Act has raised a number of problems due to the constitutional position of the State Court of Auditors. In the system of powers, the State Audit Office is part of the legislative branch, its audit experience is used directly in the work of the Parliament. One of the most important items of the democratically functioning rule of law is the doctrine of popular sovereignty, and the principle of popular representation is an equal guarantee of the rule of law, and therefore it is considered in principle that the appropriate provisions on the staff of the Parliament's audit body should be incorporated into the State Court of Auditors Act. Therefore, T/3633. Legislative bill No. 1 not only increases the independence of the State Audit Office, but also essentially ensures the coherence of the legal system. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of what has been said, I would like to ask you to support the bill in the vote. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-12-11-116	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Balázs Orbán also informed me that he would like to respond to what was said in the closing remarks. I would also like to inform you that the designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur. I would like to ask if someone would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. Now I ask Mr. Balázs Orbán Secretary of State to keep the closing. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-12-11-117	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The entry into force of the Fundamental Law and the new fundamental statutory regime related to the Fundamental Law have substantially strengthened the public financial audit and analysis activities of the State Audit Office. With the appreciation of public finances, in so far as this occurred in the Fundamental Law, as the State Audit Office also increased its weight, it was therefore necessary to adopt a cardinal law for the independence of the State Audit Office as the main public financial audit body of the Parliament and for strengthening the powers of the Court of Auditors. Each organisation is expected to carry out public tasks not only through the public funds entrusted to it, but also by continuously reviewing its performance, assigning efficiency and quality criteria. The State Court of Auditors has a key role to play in this. In addition, as a member of the Fiscal Council, the State Audit Office has a key role to play in ensuring the balance of public finances and budgets, and this also justifies the availability of both independence guarantees and resources. As has already been said here, the bill aims to strengthen these guarantees and these resources. Basically, during the negotiation of the bill, there have been proposals of a codification, text-focusing and bureaucracy-related nature from both the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Legislative Committee, which we can support from the national side, and I would like to ask you to support the bill overall. Thank you very much for the word and attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-12-11-118	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. We now have the debate on the Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws to the copyright legislation on architectural works, technical installations and their plans and the summary amendment proposal. The government referral is T/3293. The Commission is available to all of us on the Parliament's IT network, together with its non-autonomous texts. In the debate, I will be the first to address Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, who will present the opinion of the Legislative Committee. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-12-11-119	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 29 November 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/3293 on the modification of certain laws in relation to copyright legislation on architectural works, technical installations and their plans. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 25 votes in favour, not without a vote, with 8 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to highlight the very important and forward-looking step on the plan that the proposal clearly defines the concept of national plan assets and, as a normal host, the state collects and manages these plans uniformly through the Lechner Knowledge Centre. In addition, the knowledge centre is empowered not only to collect and manage the above-mentioned plans as proposed, but also to keep architectural copyright records. I believe that the State will make up for an old deficiency in the interests of both the public authority and citizens. Often, the reconstruction, static reinforcement or aesthetic restoration of certain buildings is delayed or not achieved because the copyright holder does not give its consent or would do so only in return for disproportionate compensation. The draft before us also has a solution to address this problem, which can make a significant contribution to ensuring that the reconstruction of the buildings in the country, which need to be restored, is carried out as soon as possible in the event of intention. Ladies and gentlemen, Knowing the proposal, it can be concluded that the draft submitted for adoption takes account of the needs of the state, owners and designers, creates a balance of interests and improves the framework for responsible public asset management. In view of what has been said, I ask you to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-12-11-120	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, State Secretary Balázs Orbán informed me that he would respond to what was said in the debate in the closing words. I would like to inform you that the designated Justice Committee has not presented a rapporteur, and so I would like to ask you now that someone wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. [[11.50]] I would like to ask Mr. Balázs Orbán Secretary of State to keep the closing. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-12-11-121	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the trial of the bill before you was rarely consensual, which I thank you for. This is no wonder, since the bill, as Mr President pointed out, has yet to propose answers to unsolved questions regarding the regulation of copyright relating to architectural works. It is also important to point out that there is no element in the proposal that would change the current ownership situation or that our country's obligations in the field of copyright arising from international EU law are contrary to. In addition to the elements mentioned by the Member, I would like to highlight one more thing: the proposal provides for the possibility of creating a copyright register for architectural works. This would include information on the copyright holders and the holders of the right to dispose of certain works of architecture. In our view, this is a very big step forward for practice, because many disputes can be prevented by doing so, more precisely by clearly identifying who is entitled. During the parliamentary hearing, no amendments were received from Members, the amendments made by the Judicial Committee and the Legislative Committee were essentially codification and coherence, balancing. Overall, we see that the public interest, the interests of the owners of the works and their designers are also sufficiently reflected in this bill, while the legal uncertainty that results from the disorder of the copyright relationship with the plans produced in the framework of former state planning companies is also being resolved, and this leads to serious problems in practical work. I would therefore like to ask you to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-11-122	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. I would like to inform you that the author initiated the 2016 LXXIV on the protection of the settlement image. adjourned the Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amending proposal. In accordance with our adopted decision, the debate on the proposal will not take place at this meeting. The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws relating to the entry into force of the law on sanctions for administrative infringements and the summary amendment proposal are now under discussion. The government referral is T/3370. The Commission is available to all of us on the IT network of the House, together with the non-individual documents received. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman László Salacz. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-12-11-123	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 29 November 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed the amendment of certain laws relating to the entry into force of the law on sanctions for administrative infringements T/3370. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 25 votes in favour, 2 against and 7 abstentions. The purpose of the bill before us is to establish coherence in the legislation in the area of administrative infringements by proposing amendments to the general administrative statute and amending the date of entry into force of the sanction law by 1 January 2020 and, lastly, extending the scope of the law on transitional sanctions for administrative infringements until 1 January 2020. The fundamental function of the proposal is to provide as much clarity as possible in Hungarian law in the event that a particular case also provides the basis for criminal proceedings and the conduct of an infringement procedure. It is also an important issue concerning the constitutional rights of citizens to regulate the outcome of proceedings in parallel, according to the standards of two different jurisdictions. The reasoned amendment of the General Administrative Regulation and the Sanctions Act contained in the bill would allow the supervisory body to change, destroy, and, if necessary, to require the authority involved in the case to proceed with a new procedure in accordance with the provision of the judgment in criminal proceedings. In this way, it will be possible to eliminate the same person from the same act as a result of proceedings under the rules of two different jurisdictions with the same negative consequences. The proposal submitted pays particular attention to the fact that the number of unlawful conducts that may be subject to administrative sanctions is much higher than that of acts with relevance to criminal law. Therefore, a person's actions do not exempt him from the legal consequences which are contrary to administrative law, even if the criminal court has decided that the offence has not been committed or has not proven to have been committed. Therefore, if an unlawful action constitutes an infringement in accordance with the standards of administrative law, the authority competent and competent in the case must take the necessary measures and carry out the infringement procedure within the framework of the law. The amendments also do not provide for an exemption from the application of the adverse consequences of administrative law where there is a reason for the accused's criminality or for the criminality of the act, which results in a judgment of the Court of Justice being acquitted. This is an important provision because the law-abiding person must clearly see that the procedural capacity governed by administrative law is essentially different from the procedural capacity in the criminal sense. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Ladies and gentlemen, In any event, the bill should be supported, as the amendments envisaged in it will eliminate any legal uncertainty and, in the interests of clarity, a clear distinction can be made between the rules of the two areas of law. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-11-124	Thank you, Congressman Salacz. I salute my fellow Members. The author indicates that he would like to speak later. The designated Judicial Committee did not draft a rapporteur, and now the speakers will be taking part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact on the monitor. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed and I give the floor on behalf of the rapporteurs to Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary.
u2018-12-11-125	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The proposal before us relating to the entry into force of the law on sanctions for administrative infringements aims to bring into force at a later date the rules for implementing the future reform of the sanctioning system into force; as has been said, the Government proposes that the new sanctioning system and the related registration system should enter into force on 1 January 2020. This would obviously require an extension of the scope of the so-called transitional sanction law, which contains the current rules at the same time. This temporary amendment bill includes, in the context of the sanction law, the subsequent implementation of policy needs, i.e. after the adoption of the law, and also serves to supplement the sanction law with specific sanctions rules, which are the Constitutional Court 8/2017. it is closely linked to the prohibition of double proceedings and penalties laid down in the Constitutional Court's decision. [[12.00]] The new rules will therefore be avoided in the future, as the Member mentioned, that an act should be subject to administrative and criminal penalties. In relation to the avoidance of double sanctions, the amendment of the General Administrative Rules Act is also part of this proposal, which contains specific rules on the time limit for amending and withdrawing the administrative decision and the necessary supervisory organ powers. During the discussion of the bill, the Judicial Committee proposed an amendment, which is, in our view, necessary and justified in order to facilitate the uniform application of the law. The Legislative Committee also proposed that, in parallel, in the context of the establishment of a system of registration and the subsequent entry into force of the rules on registration, the chapter on the registration of civil servants of the Houses Act should enter into force at the same time as the sanction law. From the point of view of the rapporteur, we also support this proposal, and I would like to ask the ladies and gentlemen of the House to vote in favour of the bill as a whole. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-11-126	Thank you, Mr. Balázs Orbán State Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. We now have the Commission's reports for the presentation of a spatial planning plan for Hungary and certain priority areas and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal. Government referral T/3613. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee.
u2018-12-11-127	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 6 December 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/3613 on the spatial planning of Hungary and certain priority regions. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. He discussed and adopted the summary report and the amendment proposal by 23 votes in favour, 6 against and 4 abstentions. The aim of spatial planning is to define the long-term, harmonious spatial structure of Hungary and its regions by preserving Hungary's outstanding natural and cultural values, yet in line with the interests of the economy, with a view to sustainable development. The objectives of spatial planning are pursued through the hierarchy of spatial planning plans and settlement planning instruments. The priority regional and county spatial planning plans complement the framework regulation of the national spatial planning plan. Together, they convey national and regional land use decisions to municipalities, of course not distracting local authorities from the right to implement the final land use requirements and construction conditions. Although the bill is a new law, it will in fact organise a spatial planning plan adopted by three laws in force as a law, i.e. the national spatial planning plan, the spatial planning plan of the Budapest agglomeration and the Balaton Featured Resort. During the preparation of the bill, the government made sure that the levels of protection were not reduced and that the building rights acquired were not withdrawn. During the preparation, the government also consulted almost 500 partners, including the relevant municipalities, professional and civil society organisations and, of course, the sectors. Accordingly, the country's land use system, its defence zones and related rules have been updated. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of what has been said, I would ask you to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-11-128	Thank you, Congressman László Vécsey. Dear Parliament, [[On Dr. Balázs Orbán's signal:]] The rapporteur indicated that he would like to comment later. No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. I give the floor to Mr Ferenc Koncz, rapporteur for the Committee on Sustainable Development for the debate [[Ferenc Koncz is not in the Chamber. Intercoms: He's not here!]] But he's not in the room. Two speakers presented the minority opinion in the committee, Erzsébet Schmuck and Lajos Kepli... [[Erzsébet Schmuck and Lajos Kepli are not in the Chamber.]] They're not in the room either. Dear Parliament, I'm going to ask you if you'd like to speak with some of your representatives. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see anyone on the screen. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed and I will give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary.
u2018-12-11-129	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, With your permission, I would like to speak a little longer, because this bill is extremely important to me, and I am sorry to hear that we cannot listen to the other opinions here. This bill is another milestone in the government's bureaucracy reduction measures for construction. Back in 2015, the government appointed the tasks that contribute to simplifying the bureaucracy of construction and improving quality architecture. One of the most important points of the bill is that instead of the spatial planning plan previously adopted by three laws, the national, Balaton's Most High Resort and the agglomeration plan, a present design law is created, so consistency will always be ensured between the different spatial planning concepts. The 43 Waterfront Rehabilitation Ministerial Decrees in Balaton will be issued following the adoption of this Act, and instead a ministerial decree will be issued, specifying the public use of areas necessary for tourism and recreation. This will also help to ensure simplification, transparency and clarity, more specifically legal certainty. The most important regulatory elements of the bill are that the rules relating to the placement of certain infrastructure elements become more flexible, thus strengthening the dialogue between the plan makers and the sectors, thus making it easier to prepare urban plans, which are one of the foundations of the investment, including the elements of the Modern Cities programme, which is of particular importance to us. It is important that the protection of nature conservation, environmental protection and built environmental values is not weakened or even strengthened in most cases, as the protection rules will be clearer. In less valuable areas, however, support for improvements is a priority. Some of the technical details that have been removed from the bill will appear at regulation level, which will continue to be binding on all law enforcement agencies, including municipalities. We believe that this is in balance and that this complies with the provisions of the Fundamental Law and the Law on Legislation. We also want to strengthen the role of county municipalities in coordinating settlements with the potential to designate development zones, as the use of development resources will also become more effective. In the case of agglomeration, we still provide a moderate development option in the former closed garden areas compared to the current legislation. In the case of Lake Balaton, the preservation of traditional landscape use remains a priority, and in the case of the shore, the preservation of recreational functions for public purposes. In this respect, the proposal would also strengthen the reclassification and integration of campsites and beaches. We want to represent environmental and nature conservation and built environmental interests as fully and strictly as possible, and we want to deal with them in full balance with development opportunities; and, as the Member mentioned above, we do not wish to withdraw acquired rights or property rights, as this would violate constitutional interests, and this is not proposed by the bill. [[12.10]] Since this spatial planning plan can define the territorial vision of our country in advance for a large time horizon of up to 20-25 years, the environment in which our children and grandchildren will live, it is important, in our view, to reach consensus over party interests on the main issues. I feel that my fellow Members have made constructive proposals in the general debate and in the Commission negotiations, on which I would also like to thank you. The amendments were incorporated in the bill by way of Commission amendments. For example, in order to avoid falling levels of protection, the so-called percentage rules for the quantitative protection of agricultural land, forests, have been restored. In the same way, the basic rule about sewage treatment has been restored, which is otherwise clarified by the legal system, but there is no problem if it is stated here that waste water cannot be released to Balaton. By amending the Construction Act, we want to address the issue of the construction of roof spaces and the resolution of inconsistencies between real estate registers and other public-credit registers. During the negotiation of the bill, we have always sought from the government to establish an agreed law which complies with the construction rules and regional development and spatial planning rules and is acceptable to everyone, which also complies with the constitutional principles of environmental protection. I believe that these target systems have been met. Therefore, I would like to ask you to vote in favour of the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-11-130	Thank you, Mr. Balázs Orbán State Secretary. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Next up is the 2011 CXCV on public finances. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposal to amend law and other laws. Government referral T/3620. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, I ask the author, Mr Secretary of State, whether he wishes now or at the end of the debate... [[Péter Banai Benő: End of discussion.]] Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We would now like to present the minority opinion of the designated Committee on Budgets, but Mr László Varju is not in the Chamber. I therefore give the floor to the Bulgarian ethnic advocate Varga Simeon, rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary related to the debate.
u2018-12-11-131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Уважаеми господин Председател, Уважаеми Народно Събрание! Позволете ми да ви приздравяот името на Малцинствената комисия в Унгария и involving моето име. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary and myself, to welcome you. As the spokesperson requested by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, I would like to inform the Parliament that our committee is the T/3620, which has been declared a national agenda item. CXCV 2011 on public finances. At its meeting held at 3 a.m. on 4 December 2018, the bill amending law and other laws was put on the agenda and discussed. The Committee shall adopt its Rules of Procedure in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 10/2014. Parliamentary resolution, i.e. the House Rule 44-45. In accordance with Article 4 of the Act, the bill has been discussed in detail throughout. The committee of the bill is the resolution house rule 32. Having examined the provisions of its notification pursuant to paragraph 2 of Article 44 of the Rules of Procedure, it concluded that they were in conformity with the rules of the House of Decisions. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. The Committee did not take a position on the amendments tabled to the bill and did not intend to make any further amendments, so it did not submit the amendment closing the detailed debate. The committee decided to close the detailed discussion of the bill on 4 December 2018 with 12 votes in favour, with no abstentions and no opposition. The 2011 CXCV on public finances. the preparation of a bill amending laws and other laws, a detailed discussion of the committee and a report by the Commission on the detailed debate have been drawn up in accordance with the legislation. Once again, I take this opportunity to express my thanks to the Government of Hungary for providing nationalities with the resources necessary for their operation. The Hungarian Parliament is also grateful for its support for the resources submitted by the nationalities. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Ensuring the necessary resources for the balanced and stable functioning of the ethnic institutions contributes to the survival of the Hungarian nationalities in Hungary. Our committee proposes the adoption of the bill to the Parliament. Благодаря завашето внимание! Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-11-132	Thank you, Mr Varga Simeon. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I would like to ask that someone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Péter Benő Banai, State Secretary, to give his opinion on behalf of the authors.
u2018-12-11-133	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I believe that during the general debate and during the Commission's debate, the representatives of pro-government or opposition groups found the majority of the bill submitted eligible. The reason why I am starting with this is because the bill before you consists of ten paragraphs and a number of provisions, of which practically only one paragraph has triggered a debate, namely the amendment of the Law on simplified public liability contributions, where it would be possible for employees of professional sports organisations to be subject to a higher amount of taxation. In addition, all the other proposals have been supported, so I think that if the Parliament adopts the proposal submitted, a simplification of the general government rules will be achieved which will affect the reduction of administration, if you will like, the reduction of bureaucracy. This will, for example, simplify the transfer of appropriations between so-called budget headings in the implementation of the budget, clarify the rules for amending the budget and simplify it; there are rules that will need to be simplified in the future. In the event of the adoption of the proposed amendment to the Public Finance Act, civil society organisations may receive budgetary support in the future even if the mayor of the municipality is involved in the management of the organisation. I think that a positive change to the local authorities may be that they can use their aid for development not within two years, but after the deadline, with an additional one-year extension, i.e. within three years. It also affects local governments and makes their lives simpler, I think, by amending the law on Hungary's economic stability. As further opportunities are opened to you by the provision of the bill that allows for a description of the losses incurred in amending the corporate tax law between 2025 and 30 in respect of losses before 2014. This provision improves the financial and accounting situation of companies in the period between 2020 and 30. We believe that this will give rise to new investments, thus increasing the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy. On this basis, I warmly recommend to the Honourable Parliament the adoption of the bill tabled. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[12.20]]
u2018-12-11-134	Thank you, Secretary of State Banai. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. There is a debate on the Commission's reports on the amendment of certain agricultural legislation and the summary amendment proposal. The government referral is T/3630. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Fazekas, rapporteur of the committee.
u2018-12-11-135	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 6 December 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/3630 on the amendment of certain agricultural legislation. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 26 votes in favour, 3 votes against and 3 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The primary objective of the proposal before us is to make technical changes by law enforcement and, on the basis of the experience of the past years, to ensure regulatory consistency with other laws. The aim of the package of proposals is also to promote uniform application of the law and to better fulfil public tasks. The amendments to the laws contained in the bill are justified by the professional experience and the changes in legislation that have taken place in the meantime. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, You have learned the content of the bill, you have been convinced that the amendments are indeed intended to serve a more effective public service, to enforce useful and meaningful professional experience, and I therefore ask you to support the bill. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-11-136	Thank you, Congressman Sándor Fazekas. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Sándor Farkas, Secretary of State, if he wishes to speak now or at the end of the debate. [[On behalf of Sándor Farkas:]] Thank you very much, you will want to comment at the end of the debate. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Agriculture Committee. Gábor Varga, rapporteur for the Committee on Sustainable Development, is not in the room. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I'll ask if anyone wants to comment. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Farkas, who wishes to express his thoughts on behalf of the authors.
u2018-12-11-137	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, During the parliamentary hearing of the bill amending certain agricultural legislation, a small number of amendments were proposed, with a significant number of these being addressed in textual clarification. The intention to change the importance of carrying out controls in the context of the Law on Vine and Wine Management in the breeding period; extending IT systems in relation to the Food Chain and Official Surveillance Act and extending them to a wider range than those eligible for periodic inspection of plant protection machinery; and thirdly establishing and operating rules for the sectoral depositories of ministers responsible for each sector in relation to the Law on Hungaricum; setting up and operating wine regional councils in relation to the Law on Mountain Villages, and laying down more detailed penalties for shore discipline in relation to the Law on Fish Management. The Government has thanked for these amendments, which coincide with our intentions, as they can serve both the modernisation of the administration and the improvement of economic competitiveness for law-abiding citizens. In view of this, I ask you to support the amendments supported by the government and the bill with your vote tomorrow. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-11-138	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Farkas. Dear Parliament, After the debate is closed, decisions will take place on tomorrow's sitting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the revision of certain laws in relation to the turnover of agricultural and forestry land and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow up. T/3636 submitted by the representatives of Balázs Győrffy, Sándor Font and István Jakab Fidesz. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in a 15-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Fazekas, rapporteur of the committee.
u2018-12-11-139	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 6 December 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/3636 on the modification of certain laws in relation to the circulation of agricultural and forestry land. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules after a serious debate. By 23 votes in favour, 9 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Following the expiry of the 10-year moratorium period of our country's accession to the European Union, new land traffic regulations entered into force. With regard to the provisions that have entered into force, based on the practical experience of recent years, it is justified to amend the Land Traffic Act in a spirit that continues to ensure the protection of the Hungarian land as a national treasure and non-replaceable value. The aim of the proposal is to strengthen the role of the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy and thus local farmers in the control of land traffic, thereby helping to achieve the objectives of land policy and to keep the agricultural land in Hungarian hands. It is particularly important to point out here that we know the concept of local farmers, and we are well aware of the fact that it concerns farmers and farmers living in a given settlement, Karcagon or Kisújszállás, or in other settlements, or within a 20-mile radius, who have applied to the list of farmers. They have the opportunity to buy land and to exercise control on the land market through their organisations, including the National Agricultural Chamber. This is a practical and useful solution that has been proven by the practice of recent years. The amendment makes a number of proposals in order to prevent abuses and pocket contracts, thereby making land traffic regulation fairer. Dear Parliament, The amendments are particularly important for domestic agriculture and farming, which is why I ask you to support the bill. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-11-140	Thank you very much, Congressman Sándor Fazekas. The minority opinion will now be presented within a seven-minute timeframe. I give the floor to Congressman László Varga MSZP.
u2018-12-11-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I also took part in the committee debate personally and, in part, tabled amendments to the specific legislation on the basis of the experience of the general debate. We remember the political debate that was triggered, among other things, by the fact that Gábor Harangozó, director of agriculture and rural development at a press conference at MSZP, considered several points to be partly against the law, and in some cases to be contrary to the interests of hundreds of thousands of Hungarians in rural areas. Here is a specific point, which I would like to quote quickly, which was mentioned in the original proposal in relation to the determination of the value of the land:. The valuation of the value of the land on the basis of market comparative data is not applicable. I also made it very clear during the general debate, and Gábor Harangozó made it very clear at his press conference that this situation threatens to devalue land in certain parts of the country to a very large extent and with its mass. [[12.30]] Obviously, if productivity alone is an opportunity to compare and market comparative data cannot be taken into account in this sense, then this will cause huge problems. Lands in the more difficult areas of the country, such as lands in the center of the country, will be of about the same value. Many things can determine the value of a land, for example its accessibility, proximity to asphalt roads, many of these aspects are placed on the table. Partial changes have been made. So what I am saying is that, of course, there has been a partial withdrawal from the proposal, but I think it is quite correct in my view that this proposal is also building a kind of new feudalism, and also the next proposal, and your policy in general is pointing in this direction. By the way, I tabled the amendments which I spoke about in the general debate. In part, these proposals were related to data protection issues relating to the rights of the Chamber of Agriculture, as not only the data of the farmers can be accessed by the Chamber in our view, but also the data relating to the conditions of farming and the data of the relatives, which is in any event contrary to Ptk. With regard to the application of the already mentioned estimate of turnover, we have presented a specific technical solution, which we believe would have been beneficial in this sense. And I think that it is also very right that the proposal that we originally tabled for the original proposal was included as a third proposal. The proposal sought to end the appeal against the decisions of the agricultural administration in view of the fact that the Chamber of Agriculture today is unable to comply with its legal requirements to base its decision in discretion on certain conditions. In this context, there is a proposal in the original proposal, and we do not consider this to be a good thing either. Our proposals have not been adopted; let us say, we are not so surprised at this, but once again, we will take all the amendments and instruments to ensure that this kind of new feudalism does not take place in Hungary, which you have imagined. Besides, I think that there is a proposal that stands before us today, I think of Lajos Kósa's famous proposal, which establishes a new wildlife capitalism, and this is his rural equivalent, a wild new feudalism. I don't think any of them are relevant, none of them are lucky. There may have been less talk of this proposal than of the other one, but the only proper attitude in this regard would be to withdraw their proposal. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-12-11-142	Thank you, Mr. László Varga, Congressman. I'll ask the author whether it's now or at the end of the debate... [[Balázs Győrffy: At the end.]] Thank you, Congressman Balázs Győrffy. Dear Parliament, I'll ask him if he wants to speak on behalf of the government... [[For signal:]] Yes, I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Farkas. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2018-12-11-143	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In my opinion, the changes contained in the summarised amendment proposal to the bill on the modification of certain laws in relation to the circulation of agricultural and forestry land have a positive impact on the incorporation into the law of the amendments intended by the authors. I particularly welcome the fact that its old debt is met by legislation, by establishing a pre-emptive and pre-lease right for the gardening sector, which is one of the driving sectors of agriculture, as well as for seed producers. I am also pleased that there will be an appropriate compromise amendment on the aspects to be addressed by the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy, in particular the examination of excessive land prices, which will be able to serve the interests of the local economic community in the practical application of the law. Finally, I also consider it important to highlight the amendments that facilitate the integration of the newly introduced legal institution of the right to receive sanctions into the system of the Land Trafficking Law. I ask you to pass the law on this basis. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-12-11-144	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I welcome once again my fellow Members. We'll get back to work. I now give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Magyar, who... [[Hungarian Zoltán: Thank you, I would not take advantage of this opportunity.]] You're not using it, thank you very much. Then the speeches of the Members will follow. I ask my fellow Members that someone would like to take advantage of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no such signal.]] He doesn't want to. The debate is closed. I'm going to ask you, who among the authors would like to say no. [[For signal:]] Congressman Balázs Győrffy. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-12-11-145	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, As already stated in the general debate, the bill contains amendments to three laws relating to the circulation of land. These are CXXII of 2013 on the turnover of agricultural and forestry land. Act CXXII of 13 on the circulation of agricultural and forestry land. CCXII of 2013 on certain provisions and transitional arrangements related to the Law. Act and Act LXXXVII of 2010 on the National Land Fund Law. In the last two weeks, the bill also attended the meeting of the Committee on Lawmaking, but the Legislative Committee made an amendment. I would like to highlight the most important of these in the following areas. The concept of the local neighbour has been clarified. A common problem was the situation where the owner of a really neighbouring local map number could not exercise his pre-emptive right to pre-lease, only because another administrative unit belonged to the local map number. We believe that this right will continue to be exercised by landowners or land users separated from neighbouring areas. Improving our competitiveness is also our priority in the field of agriculture. To this end, the amendment also includes an addition that pre-purchase and pre-lease rights are granted to livestock owners in the same place as seed growers, gardens, grapes or fruit, and gardening activities in the case of ploughers. A common feature of these forms of activity, like livestock farming, is that they produce high added value, and it is therefore appropriate to ensure the same high ranking. With regard to local land committees, customer status is clearly stated and the fact that the position of the Land Committee must be assessed as a customer statement, so it is not an indestructible statement, as my opposition colleagues are trying to set it up. With regard to the application of the right to buy, it is proposed as a guarantee rule that, in the event of the exercise of the right of purchase, the recipient of the right be paid the purchase price within 30 days of the exercise of the right. The order of the purchasing right shall be drawn up by the agricultural administration among those supported by the local land committee on the basis of their former pre-purchase ranking. The provisions on the purchase price have also become clear. It's not an official price. The consideration of the land is determined by the bargaining process of the parties. However, the consideration resulting in a very long period of return cannot be accepted. Therefore, the law designates a period of 20 years as a payback period, taking into account the ability of the land to generate income, which, if justified, the parties can, of course, deviate from. This provision protects the interests of farmers against speculators. Everyone who claims otherwise is against the Hungarian countryside. I would ask my fellow Members to vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-12-11-146	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. We now have the Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws to the competitiveness of the agricultural economy and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal. T/3637 submitted by our Fidesz colleagues Balázs Győrffy, Sándor Font and István Jakab. The Commission's non-autonomous proposals on Parliament's IT network are available to all of us. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to our fellow Member, Mr Fazekas, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[12.40]]
u2018-12-11-147	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 6 December 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/3637 amendment of certain laws in relation to the competitiveness of the agricultural economy. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 23 votes in favour, 6 votes against and 3 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of this bill before Parliament is to improve the competitiveness of the actors of agriculture by amending the five laws it contains. For all laws, the aim is to provide answers to the questions that have been published in practice since the date of its entry into force, to refine and modify the procedures based on our experience. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments therefore promote the development of domestic agriculture, which is why I ask you to support the bill. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-11-148	Thank you very much, Congressman. The minority opinion of the Legislative Committee is presented by our colleague László Varga, the notary of the Parliament. Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2018-12-11-149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In the general debate, I made it very clear what our problem is with this proposal. It obviously concerns five laws, so the usual salad law problem also applies here, which is eligible, but there is a lot of things that are not, and we also called this proposal lex Ripper in part during the general debate. I have also lived with an amendment motion in this respect, which would have partly addressed the problems that I raised there, but, as we were accustomed to, none of this was accepted and incorporated into the proposal. However, I would like to make one point, in any case, that is to say that, especially in the situation in which this House has come to pass, that we saw a Justice Committee on the basis of a late invitation sent by e-mail after the beginning of the meeting yesterday, which makes it very strange that you will issue an amendment to the proposal on the spot, which does not include an explanation. This has been the case here in particular with regard to the Chamber Renewer, in the context of a proposal with retroactive regulations which subsequently legitimizes it. This and many other things, in our view, are against the law, and we will act accordingly if this proposal is adopted. So much for that. By the way, maybe a few more sentences from the title of the proposal, because we also spoke about it. When we talk about changes related to the competitiveness of the agricultural economy, people, the average user or the reader of the proposal must expect something else. There are very serious obstacles to the competitiveness of the agricultural economy. The most serious obstacle to this is, in our view, your policy, but it is also a very serious obstacle to the fact that the number of irrigated areas, their size, has been significantly reduced in recent years, we have also talked about this during the general debate, below 100,000 hectares. This figure was 200,000 hectares not so long ago, and even in a very effective policy, 500 000 hectares would not be impossible, although it is obviously an ambitious number. [[Sándor Wolf is shaking his head.]] I see that you also believe that, in any case, you have given some encouragement in the general debate that you have indicated that there will be permanent fixed resources in the budget to increase the number and size of irrigated areas. We'd like to see these, we'd like to catch you in the act, we'd like to see that there are actually resources for that. I think that if we could cooperate in something, or if we could support it regardless of party standing, it would be to target at least 200,000 hectares in the first place, so many irrigated areas in Hungary. Instead of pushing everything under the humbug and the Chamber, we believe that this is in itself, this one question would serve the competitiveness of the Hungarian agricultural economy much better. Obviously, we do not consider the proposal to be eligible in this form, which I myself have expressed on the Legislative Committee, and perhaps I have not caused such a very big surprise on the basis of these preliminary events. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-12-11-150	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask Mr Balázs Győrffy, as rapporteur, whether he would like to speak now or in the closing section. [[Balázs Győrffy: At the end.]] Thank you. You want me in the closet. I would like to ask Mr. Secretary of State on behalf of the government, Mr. Sándor Farkas, if you would like to speak. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-12-11-151	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The draft amendment prepared for the proposed amendment on the amendment of individual laws to the competitiveness of the agricultural economy aims to bring about positive changes to the text of the bill for law enforcement. Such an amendment is to exempt those who wish to hunt with a hunting bow, a bird of prey or a Hungarian greyhound from shooting practice, and to ensure that they have the right to participate in the hunting on-site inspection during the game survey procedure. It is also the right direction to amend the possible misunderstandings and misinterpretations of the Chamber of Agriculture elections, which will ensure that the membership of the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy applies a rapid and effective system of conduct; and, of course, the points raised by my fellow Member, Mr Varga, on the subject of irrigation, I think the government will give you an appropriate answer in time. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-11-152	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, I would like to inform you that the designated Agriculture Committee has not presented a rapporteur. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I ask my fellow Members that someone would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Balázs Győrffy that he wishes to make a closing statement. [[For signal:]] Yeah. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-12-11-153	Yes, Mr. President. Thank you very much. Dear House, As discussed in the general debate, the legislative proposal contains a number of amendments to the legislation in order to promote the competitiveness of the agricultural economy. For the sake of order, I would like to say these things: the 1996 LIII on the protection of nature. Law 6; the 1996 LV on the protection of wild game, game management and hunting Act No CXLIV of 2009 on Water Companies Act CLXXXVII of 2011 on Vocational Training Act CXXVI of 2012 on the Hungarian Chamber of Agriculture, Food Economics and Rural Development. Law. The bill has been on the agenda of the Committee on Agriculture for the last two weeks, and then the Committee on Legislative Affairs. In fact, the general debate and the Commission debate conducted have one conclusion for all of us: that the complete Hungarian left does not have a single agricultural politician, there is no single agricultural politician in the Hungarian Parliament, because we have to keep listening to the comments of people who say that they do not understand what they are talking about, but we are still patiently listening to them. [[Moraj, interruptors from the ranks of the MSZP.]] I would like to present to you the amendments adopted during the procedure. The Wildlife Management Act is supplemented by the provision that hunters with exclusively hunting bows, predatory birds or Hungarian greyhounds are exempted from the practical shooting test, since there is no reason to require a practical shooting test from a person who wishes to hunt only without a firearm. In the case of hunting with a hunting bow, the hunting ticket already includes a reference to hunting with a bow. A different procedure is unified by the amendment that, even if initiated by the notary, the person entitled to hunt should be notified of the survey in the course of the survey of wild game damage, it will be in line with the procedure initiated by the court or the notary. [[12.50]] The amendment also changes with regard to agricultural chamber changes. This amendment was necessary because, by creating the text currently in force, there was no legislative purpose for, say, 50,000 people to meet at a certain time and hold a debate with a specific agenda. This would be contrary to both legislative intent and common sense, which the court must examine, especially in cases where a law is interpreted. In addition, during the Chamber elections, we saw that the common good was not damaged, as nearly 50,000 chamber members declared their will quite unanimously. The above points are supported by both the Committee on Agriculture and the Legislative Committee. I urge my fellow Members to do the same and to support it with their vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-11-154	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. It follows now that the 2006 LIII on speeding up and simplifying the implementation of investments of major importance for the national economy will follow. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. T/3629 submitted by our fellow Members Lajos Kósa and Gábor Riz Fidesz. The Commission is available to all of us on the House's IT network, together with the Commission's non-individual documents received. I'll ask Lajos Kósa, as rapporteur, if you'd like to speak now. [[Lajos Kósa: We'll do it in the closing.]] He doesn't want to, he'll do it in the closet. You'll have ten minutes in the closet. I ask that on the part of the government, Mr Sándor Bodó wishes to speak. [[Sándor Bodó: Yes, Mr President.]] Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-12-11-155	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal for an amendment to the law before us aims at supplementing the rules relating to the implementation of investments of major importance for the national economy, which facilitates the possibility of submitting building permit applications as soon as possible, obtaining building permits, obviously contributing to the faster implementation of the investment. In many cases, the land sections of the investments are not orderly, they are not designed, they are translated into the real estate register. The acquisition of land ownership and the transfer of land conversion through the real estate register are in many cases a more lengthy process. At the same time, the design of buildings and buildings is obviously taking place, and the architectural and technical documentation required for authorisation is being prepared, which in many cases may be completed before the real estate is transferred to the real estate register. The construction authority can only issue a construction permit for an orderly plot, clearly. The land is considered to be settled if it is designed in accordance with the relevant rules and is registered in the real estate register. The proposed amendment of the law provides for the possibility of granting a building permit to land with a permanent land conversion permit, but not already transferred to the real estate register in this capacity, by allowing it to take place at the latest until the permit for entry into service is issued. The delay in obtaining a building permit can cause very serious damage in major cases and, therefore, according to the bill, it is appropriate to supplement the 2006 Act on Accelerating and simplifying the implementation of investments of major importance for the national economy. The Government therefore agrees with the provisions of the bill and recommends that this House also support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-11-156	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. I ask my fellow Members that someone would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. Among the authors, Mr Lajos Kósa will conclude. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-12-11-157	Mr. President. Dear House, The proposal that I have submitted allows investment to be carried out in the case of investments that are considered as a priority for the national economy, while, for example, the various official procedures can be carried out, while, at the same time, the transfer to the land register takes place, for example, after land formation or the land formation decision has become legally binding. It is very important that we gain time here by allowing different regulatory acts to take place in parallel with each other, while at the same time guaranteeing legal guarantees for the construction authority, as well as guaranteeing the investor and the landowner that there is no lack of an official licence or official act. Registration in a public-credit register after the final construction of the plot is a condition for the authorisation of entry into service. This means that if a person wishes to proceed quickly or in parallel with various official procedures for the construction of land, for the increase in legal force, for the registration of real estate, while lodging a building permit, do not give it to God, for the start of the investment, he can do so at his own risk, because if the public office does not ensure entry in the land register until the procedure for granting the permit to use it, he cannot use the investment he has made. In very many cases, the length of the land formations can provide these procedures for a longer period than a year, and I therefore believe that this proposal, with these guarantees, will help to achieve these investments. I need your support. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-11-158	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws relating to the organisation of working time and the minimum rental fee for temporary agency work and the summary amendment proposal are now under discussion. T/3628 submitted by our fellow Members Kristóf Szatmáry, Lajos Kósa and Gábor Bányai Fidesz. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available to all of us on the Parliament's IT network. Ladies and gentlemen, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and then the opinion of the minority expressed will be presented in the debate. The rapporteur for the committee is Mr László Vécsey. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-12-11-159	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee, at its meeting on 6 December 2018, discussed the amendment of certain laws relating to the organisation of working time and the minimum rental fee for temporary agency workers T/3628. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. 46th parliamentary decision of the year 2004 By 23 votes in favour, 9 votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, In connection with the amendment of the Hungarian labour law legislation, domestic companies have announced their problems related to the organisation of working time at a number of forums and have expressed their need to establish working time arrangements according to the production cycles. The work organisation problem on the side of businesses has a negative impact on their operation. The instruments to ensure their competitiveness include the development of labour law legislation, such as the proposal containing this amendment. The present proposal has several important guarantees to protect the interests of the worker. For example, in addition to 250 hours, the employer can only order an additional 150 hours of extraordinary working time if he enters into a written contract with the employee. Furthermore, in the case of collective agreements, an additional 100 hours extra than 300 hours of extraordinary working time may be ordered by the employer only if a written agreement has been concluded with the employee. The collective agreement may differ from this rule only for the benefit of the worker. [[13.00]] However, the termination of this agreement by an employee should not serve as a basis for the termination of the employment relationship by the employer. As an additional guarantee rule, the proposal provides that an agreement concluded by the employer and the employee on the extent of the extraordinary working time which can be ordered must be recorded separately by the employer. In view of the general principle of written communication and the protection of the interests of the parties, it is clarified that a change in the working time schedule can only be initiated by the worker in writing. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposed draft law aims to create working conditions which, on the basis of an agreement between directly interested parties in a given workplace, will ensure a secure livelihood for workers, while ensuring an adequate production environment for employers' businesses in the long term; creating a regulatory environment that will create flexible working time arrangements with a view to protecting workers' rights; creating and supporting stable businesses. In the light of all this, I would ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-12-11-160	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As I have indicated, the minority opinion in the committee will be presented by two Members. First I give the floor to Congressman László Varga, notary of the Parliament. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-12-11-161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, He came out of the nail bag again, listening to the majority position here. Employers have asked, if I understand correctly, for flexible labour markets, timeframes, flexible exploitation. This was also what the Code of Work was about in your interpretation, which was accepted, and this was also what it was about, that the right to strike is basically limited to Hungarian workers. In the general debate, which took place for 4.5 hours here two weeks ago, we could not really learn your views. Lajos Kósa spent 4.5 hours staring at his monitor, and he did not tell us what justified this amendment, who asked for it at all. Well, we've been waiting, waiting for you to negotiate with the unions, and since you've failed before, there wasn't much to thank. The Legislative Committee has already been put forward with new proposals, which actually contained one single innovation, an outrageous clause: the concept of voluntary overwork has been arbitraryly introduced by this proposal. In other words, the worker has to agree in writing to apply 400 hours of overtime to him up to every year. Now, based on that, Mt. on the basis of what you have accepted in this House, which makes the Hungarian worker flexible and exploitable, which worker would raise his voice in a situation where he is completely vulnerable? Which one? For a married couple, say, one of whom works in catering and the other is a automotive factory worker, who will go after this proposal to pick up the child in kindergarten and school? Answer that, Mr. Kósa. He couldn't answer that anyway, either in the general debate or in the Committee on Legislative Affairs. But let me briefly comment on what happened here yesterday. After all, I was shocked at the fact that three minutes before a Justice Committee we were invited by text, and this is how we are trying to make our proposals for a change of agenda that we have already submitted. But the biggest scandal is that the invitation arrived by e-mail at 12.46pm for a 12.45pm start. I can say that the illegal conclusion of the general debate, because it was very clear that more people wanted to speak here and that new elements had been introduced into the debate, makes this proposal, in itself, illegal and against the basic law, invalid if adopted. But by the way, what happened to the Justice Committee yesterday just strengthens what they said. Obviously, you can run as fast as you can in three minutes. The unprecedented fact is that Mr Tamás Harangozó, Deputy Head of the Group, does not speak here, but that four Fidesz Members are sitting in the Chamber of the Judicial Committee when I get there. How is that possible? I was in the house by accident, and we were really in a hurry. There are some cases; they may have teleported, maybe they drank a lot of energy drinks and got there, or they came on Santa's wind sled, or maybe they knew about the meeting earlier. Maybe we should put this fourth on the table. It's possible that you're doing an act here, against the law, you're trying to push through a proposal that is called a slave law only by employees. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of MSZP, DK, LMP and Dialogue.]]
u2018-12-11-162	Mr Péter Jakab describes another form of minority opinion. Here you go.
u2018-12-11-163	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and Gentlemen, The Fidesz majority of the Legislative Committee gladly voted in favour of the Slave Act, and the minority opposition representatives rejected it. I think it tells us everything about the system of Hungarian representation, that I must say here today the views of the remaining representatives in the minority, while 83 percent of the workers agree with us. In other words, now the minority opinion is the overwhelming opinion of the majority. And the opinion of the majority is that you and your fellow Members, Lajos Kósa, will go to hell with your slave law. How do you think a nation can be enslaved just so that your strategic partners, the multinationals, can eviscerate Hungarian workers even more? ! Who and how much did they get for this proposal? Tell me, will you? Which company will fly a luxury plane to Viktor Orbán for this proposal? Help us understand the motivation of what motivated Lajos Kósa to put this proposal on the table! Because not common sense, that's for sure. Anyone who has a common sense here, and who knows how much Hungarian workers work, cannot say that a slave law is needed so that anyone who wants to work more can work even more. Colleagues! Do you know how many teachers, how many nurses, how many social workers, how many two-handed workers take second and third jobs to make a living? Hungarian people don't want to work anymore because they can't work anymore. Hungarian people want quality wages for quality work, and they want it now, not three years from now, because the bill has to be paid now, and not three years from now. You say that young people should have children. Where? Next to the line? A young couple, a husband and a wife won't even meet at home. If you're lucky, one of the two rest days a month will probably be a day, and then you can have a baby. Tragedy! What you're doing to this country is a tragedy! Do you know where this slave law is going to lead? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] It will lead to the fact that a significant part of the workers who do not want to die from work will go to the West, because there they will earn twice as much for those who stay here, they will be able to heal in damaged hospitals, because they will rot in the fold. This is not the future we want for this country and neither do the workers. That is the opinion of the majority, Lajos Kósa. In the opinion of the majority, no worker can be humiliated by having them slaved for free for three years. So, with all due respect, here you are, Lajos Kósa, your slave law, I've already shown you what to do with it once before, but for the record, I'll show you one more time. [[James Peter goes to Lajos Kósa.]]
u2018-12-11-164	Congressman! Stay where you are, so for the unnotified illustration you're about to do, I'm forced to... [[Peter James is tearing up the bill. Applause for the opposition.]] Congressman! You gave a committee opinion. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] There is no debate here, ladies and gentlemen, there is no debate here. The debate will open in a few minutes. Now I ask Lajos Kósa, as rapporteur, if you would like to speak. [[For signal:]] I would like to inform the Member that there is a total of 10 minutes of house rules for speaking and closing. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-12-11-165	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Members, Thank you all very much for participating in this debate. Everyone brought what they could best give of themselves. Péter Jakab's statement of exceptional preparedness and culture showed that, moreover, opposition representatives simply did not read the proposal, and that, on the other hand, there was a great deal of lies on the proposal, ignoring the changes that I had applied in the text itself after consulting employers and employees. Everyone's style tells us of their innermost reality; the opposition has demonstrated very well why it is in fact so deep in public judgment and public confidence. [[Uproar in opposition benches]] It has been tabled on this proposal that my proposal abolishes Saturday and introduces the six-day working week. That's a lie! That's a lie! [[13.10]] It was claimed that employees [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] they will be vulnerable in this situation. This is not true either, because my bill provides a double guarantee to the employees, because, on the one hand, they have to do their work voluntarily in writing, but it is not enough in itself, because the 36-month time frame clearance is subject to the permission of the Works Council or the collective contract, so if one of them is missing, then it will not work. [[Lajos Rig: No collective agreement? Or is the collective agreement suspended?]] And I consider Hungarian workers sufficiently prepared and adult to be able to protect their interests individually. [[Tamás Sneider: All right, Louis, well done! That's what 30 years was about! They can protect themselves, of course.]] [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] they will be vulnerable in this situation. This is not true either, because my bill provides a double guarantee to the employees, because, on the one hand, they have to do their work voluntarily in writing, but it is not enough in itself, because the 36-month time frame clearance is subject to the permission of the Works Council or the collective contract, so if one of them is missing, then it will not work. (Lajos Rig: No collective agreement? Or is the collective agreement suspended?) And I consider Hungarian workers sufficiently prepared and adult to be able to protect their interests individually (Tamás Sneider: All right, Lajos, well done! That's what 30 years was about! They can protect themselves, of course!) In part, in the second stage, organised workers can protect them. (Continuous noise. The president's ringing. And there is no need for any kind of strike, no need for any kind of rebellion, no need to go out on the street, simply to say that thank you very much, in the collective agreement I do not allow for the resolution of the 36-month timeframe, and from that point on, no one is overemployed, because at that time they are governed by the European Union's labour policy directives, namely a one-year time frame clearance. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: Expertise and warranty!]] There is also an obligation against overemployment in the EU, which is what I proposed in the one-year reference period is the definition that no one can otherwise be employed for more than 48 hours per week. Of course, they always get paid for extraordinary work at the end of the month. That wild bullshit everyone said they were working for free for three years, it's impossible, I don't know where they got it. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Have you read it, Lajos?]] Of course, 95 percent of the opposition's actions against my proposal are simple lies. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Then why they think it's good to have everyone fooled, by the way. After all, there is something to hide at least part of the opposition. Let's not forget that they were the ones who basically put a million people on the streets, brought this country into disaster. [[An uproar in the ranks of MSZP and DK.]] In return, they took away the 13th month's pension and the wages. Now they are trying to protect Hungarian workers. [[Gergely Harvesto: You're lying again!]] I think that Hungarian workers, if we give them tools, can defend themselves. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Everyone wants to work on Saturday!]] This law has a double instrument in it, which is why I think that it does not make them vulnerable, opens up an opportunity for a small segment of the Hungarian economy, I add, who work in a campaign, who work alongside uneven work organisation. This proposal is not generally about the world of work, it is only about workers with uneven workload, there are no more than 400 usque 600 000. I would also like to draw attention briefly to a few points, Mr House. This proposal also includes the obligation to give the minimum wage or minimum wage to everyone at temporary agency level, in Hungarian: the world of temporary agency workers employs roughly 500,000 people, and roughly 20 percent of employees are not paid according to the law. It's a complicated atypical employment. The minimum service fee I have initiated will eliminate this anomaly. Furthermore, in some very specific cases, it proposes to increase the number of days off to be paid to workers, or at one point it is more favourable for workers, namely that it allows the worker to initiate a change in the shift schedule, and if he does so in writing, this should be taken into account. For the employer, this is a life-like situation, which has not been possible until now, and now it is possible. Overall, this creates an opportunity for people who want to take advantage of it, including protection and a double system. I think all that nonsense about the slave law and the collapse and the exploitation mostly happened because Marx was probably all over the opposition's head and woke up one morning at the "execution" chapter. [[Loránt Violin: We feel sorry for you, Louis!]] While we believe that rather than exploitation, it would be better to approach that the employee owns his human capital, otherwise, if he makes good use of it, his salary will increase, his income will be higher than, by the way, the Orbán government's economic policy has shown, in recent years, a two-digit increase in real wages, as opposed to the socialist's economic policy, which has resulted in bankruptcy, collapse, debt and unemployment. [[Zsolt Gréczy: You have just brought together the greatest lack of all time.]] Thank you very much for your attention. I look forward to your arguments in the debate. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-11-166	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'd like to inform you that you have a three-minute deadline for closing. On behalf of the government, I would like to ask Mr Sándor Bodó, State Secretary, if you would like to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give you the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-12-11-167	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In recent days, the large number of speeches made in the Parliament and beyond in the context of the Labour Law on the agenda has clearly demonstrated that the amendments contained in the proposal are of paramount importance to all my fellow Members, regardless of their party standing. Indeed, the rules of the world of work are very different, very colourful, directly affecting a wide range of citizens and indirectly affecting everyone. Most of the comments contained criticism, which could essentially result from the misunderstanding of the draft law. It is also apparent from the speeches that part of the draft legislation, the regulation of temporary agency work, has less attention, although the proposal is very important in this regard and introduces guarantee rules in support of the interests of workers. To me, the silence of fellow Members in this regard can mean consent, which can only be welcomed on behalf of workers. Rental of workers is an atypical form of employment compared to general employment. In addition to the production trends of our time, there is an increasing demand for it in the labour market, which is what we see, as it allows employers to quickly expand their workforce in order to meet the sudden challenges they face. However, we also need to draw attention to the fact that renters can sometimes abuse the situation of workers. In many cases, the company that lent the loan collected the fee for the service, but the employees who contracted it did not obtain the right wage. We cannot, therefore, accept this situation and the established practice must be curbed, and this requires an amendment to the existing legislation. The proposal therefore aims to improve the legality of the operation of temporary agency workers. In order to guarantee workers' wages, it empowers the government to provide for the lowest amount to be paid for the hire of workers in a regulation. In addition, Honourable Parliament, the Government therefore supports the amendment of the law on the rules on temporary agency work, which clearly serves the interests of both workers and the state. Ladies and gentlemen, The debate on the bill clearly focuses on working time rules. We agree that working time is one of the most important working conditions. Anyone who doesn't work in his own business, in his own economy, from the days of his life, hand over a certain number of hours to the company, office, organization that employs him. It is therefore important for all workers to spend time at work. The organisation of working time is therefore a law for all countries and is regulated by international organisations. These rules are not for the benefit of employers, but for the protection of workers around the world. Ladies and gentlemen, Over the last few days, they have addressed the proposal with signs of slavery, which we have heard from you, but in addition to their own speeches, they did not want to hear the answers to the questions. Allow me to respond once again to some specific points in relation to the draft law. The bill before you raises the number of hours that can be ordered and the length of the working time limit that can be set by collective agreement; once again, I would stress the length of the working time limit that can be set by collective agreement. [[13.20]] The proposal provides for two options under the Code rules; however the text of the draft law is translated, this does not impose any obligations. The basic rules of the Labour Code on regular working hours are not changed; in principle, working time is divided into five days a week from Monday to Friday. One element of the proposal is the length of extraordinary working hours. In this context, we could conclude that, in addition to normal working hours, the employer has already had the opportunity to impose extraordinary working hours, but that he can only do so under certain conditions, for example, the weekly working time should not exceed 48 hours. This has been the case, and it will not change. So what changes? That's a fair question. The possibility of ordering the worker to overwork several times, but this can be done not without limits, but by complying with the existing weekly maximum. Hearing the proposals made during the discussions, the rapporteur added guarantees to the original draft protecting workers. The amending proposal, which has been submitted, states that the employer can only impose extraordinary work on excess work already covered by the law with the written consent of the worker. By means of voluntary overtime, an additional source of income will be offered to workers. If you need more money, you'd rather stay at your own job than maybe after your full-time job. [[Interruption from the ranks of the MSZP.]] line up at a second job. If this amended text of the proposal is accepted by the Honourable Parliament, it will give each employee such an opportunity. According to the proposal supplemented by the amendment, if the worker no longer needs additional earnings, the agreement on this matter can be terminated, for which he cannot be put at a disadvantage. In such a system, the employer, if he legally employs workers, will not hide this, keep a record of it and pay overtime with allowances. The amended proposal therefore creates a clear situation, giving both parties an opportunity. Please reconsider this whole system before you vote on it. Let me now turn to another group of working time rules, which include amendments to the bill. The longer working time frame outlined in the proposal can also be established only on the basis of an agreement between workers and employers. Working time schemes other than general are adapted to the operation of larger plants, so workers enter into agreements with employers through collective agreements instead of individual agreements. It is not true, therefore, that the establishment of a system for long production periods is an unlimited means for employers to have this law, i.e. a collective agreement. Nor is it true that, after the adoption of the proposal, the working time limit will be increased to 36 months, as it will be fixed in a collective agreement with the trade union at the workplace. The law also provides an opportunity for agreement between the parties, but limits its possible duration by deadlines in order to protect workers. On the basis of the proposal, it is not possible to impose unlimited overtime during a working period of up to 36 months. The rules on rest periods must be complied with and the employee's contribution will always be necessary to order overtime on extraordinary work under the law in force. In addition, no matter how long the collective agreement sets out, the working time arrangements should be reviewed every 12 months, and this reference period should be governed by the principle that weekly working time should not exceed 48 hours on average. Finally, let me also disprove their claim that workers in the 36-month system will not receive the allowances due to them. The shift allowance, the night allowance and the special working time charge imposed in addition to the working time schedule shall be cleared at the end of that month. The employer must pay the remuneration of any excess work that may accumulate throughout the entire duration of the framework when the framework is closed. Here again, I draw attention to the rule of the 12-month reference period, which the employer is obliged to observe. It can be seen that, at the end of the third year, only the maximum applicable for that year can be ordered and that the calculation of the unpaid overtime will be made at the end of the overall framework. On the government's side, we still believe that the regulation on temporary agency work and working time arrangements will contribute to the government's efforts to ensure that the labour needs in production can be met as flexibly as possible. The bill also contributes to allowing workers to do more work in their own workplaces according to their own needs, but legally, for which they receive higher remuneration under the law. Dear Parliament, I therefore request your support for the bill supported by the government. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[Attila Gelencsér will be replaced by Dr. Winner Vinnai in the notary seat.]]
u2018-12-11-168	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the designated Enterprise Development Committee has not presented a rapporteur. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. The timeframes are on the billboard. I would also like to inform you that there is no possibility of two-minute speeches under house rules. I would like to take the floor first from the Jobbik Group to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2018-12-11-169	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I felt like we were living in a completely different world during the Secretary of State's presentation. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Exactly! That's right!]] The Secretary of State began to explain... [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] The Secretary of State began to explain that the fee would not be paid in 36 months, but that when the 36-month framework was closed, it would be accounted for. Mr. Secretary, that's exactly the same. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] Not saying 36 months doesn't make sense. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] I'm just saying that working hours or overtime are the same thing, please. I believe that these speeches are necessary to reassure society that it is not what we know what it is, but I would like to quote to both the rapporteur, as the secretary of state, the statement of the reasons for your proposal, the sentence of the statement of the reasons for your proposal, on the one hand, that the amendment of the regulation on the organisation of working time is justified by the withdrawal effect on the supply side of the labour market, which is due to the economic recovery of recent years, and that there is a need for a more flexible solution. Well, I'm sorry. You say that there is little workforce, so you have to overwork it. Cut! You don't have to wrap this up in such a wonderful, scientific-looking text. This is simply about the lack of workforce, the needs of their oligarchs and some multinationals, and then I eviscerate the existing workforce by making 400 hours of work mandatory. And what's there where there's no service council, what's there where there's no collective agreement? What's there? They're exposed there! By the way, you were talking about social groups that are virtually 70% on the Hungarian labour market, because about 30 percent have any operating councils or collective agreements at all. I would like to say one more thing: when I call this the employment code because I call it a code for employers, it should be called a code for employers, it was already felt that there was nothing else to do but put economic organisations in a position against workers. It's a process, I hope, of the end, but it may not be the end, it's just a stage. And, by the way, in the rule of law, the democratic rule of law where a government allows temporary agency companies to run their activities in this way, there is a system of temporary employment of this amazing size, and they serve them, it in itself calls into question the good intentions of any government. If it's up to me, and I hope it's up to me or us one day, we're gonna eliminate the temporary agency the way it is, because it's nothing but trafficking in human beings. This is trafficking in human beings, trafficking in man's labour force. They thank you, they are well, they live well, and the worker is at your mercy. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-12-11-170	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr Tamás Harangozó. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-12-11-171	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, I could say that it's very entertaining when the Kósa Lajos who almost graduated from the Marx Károly University of Design Management, and then finally he didn't. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] He's been educating us about anything in this Chamber. It's an old riddle for us that Mr. Kósa can lie without blinking his eyes, that he believes what he's saying, or that he's so clueless. [[Márius Révész intervenes.]] and the things you just told me here. [[Márius Révész: You didn't even read the law!]] , that's...
u2018-12-11-172	Congressman! Honourable Congressman, I'm asking you to use the rating markers... [[Márius Révész intervenes.]] [[13.30]]
u2018-12-11-173	There hasn't been a rating, Mr. President. It doesn't matter to the Hungarian workers, Mr. Kósa. We have one last warning: withdraw this slave law!
u2018-12-11-174	Thank you very much. The next speaker was Mr Csárdi Antal from the LMP Group.
u2018-12-11-175	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Mr. Kósa, I note in the Commission's opinion that it is in the interests of employers and businesses. Yes, you represent this, which in itself would not be a problem, but that is all you represent, and I think that there is a very important worldview difference between us, not only with Mr Kósa, but also clearly with the entire Fidesz-KDNP fraction pair. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: That's why we won! Intruders from Fidesz: Thank God!]] 'Cause we say so, and technically... [[It's an interrogation from the ruling parties. Intercoms from the opposition, among them: Oh, stop it! Stop it!]] Mr. President, can I have my speech, please? [[Lajos Kósa intervenes. Interventions from the opposition, including Mr President. The president's ringing the bell.]] So, here's the thing, you're saying that the answer to the shortage of labour is that you have to make it possible to do the extra work you call flexible and, I think, overtime by employers. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Volunteer! A statement from the opposition: Hahaha! The president's ringing the bell. Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]]
u2018-12-11-176	Congressman Nacsa, when you press the button, I will speak to you. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: We can wait for that! Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2018-12-11-177	Ladies and gentlemen, In the year of the families, I submit such a proposal, facial toaster, and I think that you should be able to look into the mirror in the morning when you go to work, and I don't know how you can do that in the year of the families, when you submit a bill that allows you to be ordered, and then I will explain it, because I know that the Bullshit will be a very drastic increase in the number of overtime hours that can be ordered by mutual agreement. And I think that we have reached the point where it is worth talking for a minute about whether you are serious about a simple worker on the machine line in a bargaining position with Audi, BMV or any major multinational company. Ladies and gentlemen, At least once in a while, get on the street, get on tram two, take subway two, or if you can get to Deák tér, get on line three and talk to people. The reality, the reality, which, in fact, is not due to this bill; the most outrageous thing is that you claim that when the employer says that, dear worker, we would need the extra 150 overtimes, which, by the way, gives us the opportunity to do, I think that if you think that this is really lifelike, then I would like to tell you, perhaps, first, that as a number, that this is not the case. I am not talking about the fact that this law itself is so stupid I can't say anything else, that it has a disorder of coherence, which will result in the fact that since the interpretation of the law is not easy for a simple ordinary citizen, it will be easy to abuse it, logically, by the employer. 'Cause let's count a little. So for every beginner, it's the least 20 days of freedom, 20 days of freedom, that's four weeks. If I take the four weeks off of 52 weeks, I hope Mr. Kósa can follow me, then he'll be 48. If the excess overtime is maxed out eight hours a week, it's eight times 48, take out a calculator, 384, so it won't come out 400 hours. At the same time, the bill is so stupidly formulated that today everyone has 400 hours in their brains, but as a result, employers will be able to eviscerate and force workers to work for 400 hours, 400 hours. It's completely insufferable, unacceptable. I think, with which I began my speech, that there is a philosophical, values-based difference between us, Lajos Kósa, honourable Members of the Fidesz: the work must be paid, and the extra wages of the work can be facilitated by your decision, for example, by a multi-key tax system, where the lower wage can bring more home. We have also proposed this in the course of the budget negotiations, and I think that if you thought a little more about the wealthy, with the head of the majority of society besides the capitalists, then this bill would not have come here now, and otherwise, in your tax policy, you would be much more supportive of the smaller earners, which, by the way, would be very good for the Hungarian economy by increasing domestic demand. Ladies and gentlemen, In closing, I would like to say that Lajos Kósa has given his opinion on government minorities, because this law is a minority against the majority of society. Thank you very much.
u2018-12-11-178	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the DK Group is Mr Gergely Arató. Here you go.
u2018-12-11-179	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, First of all, I am pleased to say that President Lezsák was replaced before this debate, because it would have been a serious provocation if this debate had been put into his hands by the party, the House... the leadership of the party, that is accurate, because it is not the housekeeping, but the leadership of the party, it is the party's party. This bill was scandalous and outrageous in all its elements, and it was also scandalous in the way it was done in the committees. Congressman Kósa has drawn up a bill in his infinite wisdom, presented it to the House, and the government agreed with him in the general debate. Then he went into the Enterprise Development Committee, and there was another suggestion that there would be something with the collective agreement and the operating council, and the government agreed with him. Two days later, the pro-government representatives wrote a proposal to the Legislative Committee, and Mr Kósa also agreed, but at 5 p.m. he remembered four more oral amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, This is not a legislative act, it is an assassination by law. Your only goal is to eviscerate and destroy workers because they have destroyed education because they have driven young people away and cannot maintain the labour needs of foreign and domestic businesses that are close to you in friendship and business. Your economic policy has failed, and the burden of that is being paid by the working people, the workers. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the lines of DK, LMP, MSZP and Dialogue.]]
u2018-12-11-180	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Dialogue Group is Mr Bence Tordai. Feel free to put the microphone on, Congressman, I'll wait for you. [[It's happening.]] Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-12-11-181	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, The slave law is an anti-popular crime, and Lajos Kósa is now trying to pretend that it's some kind of harmless little amendment, like he doesn't even understand what it's about, what he's put forward. We know that Lajos Kósa is not the sharpest knife in the drawer [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition. Nacsa Lőrinc: Don't insult him!]] However, it should be noted that voluntary overwork is not so voluntary under asymmetrical conditions of power. Lajos Kósa never worked, since 1990 Lajos Kósa didn't have a job, he didn't have a boss who told him, "Lajos, you're staying in until 10:00 p.m. But I'm sorry, I was exaggerating, because from 1989 he worked for a year, so it's accurate that he hasn't worked in the last 28 years, since the change of regime he hasn't tried what it's like to go to the labour market, quit the protected little coat heat of Fidesz, and try out what it's like to be a Hungarian worker's life. Then you wouldn't say such nonsense that he, if he didn't feel like it, would refuse to work too hard. Mr Kósa, how do you think this law isn't about what the opposition is talking about, what the trade unions are talking about, what people are talking about, but is it some kind of huge benefit to the people? Why is it then... [[Intercoms. The president's ringing the bell.]] Why, then, is 83 out of 100 people rejecting this law and only 9 percent supporting it? Why is it that trade unions in full refuse this law? You think everyone's functionally illiterate? ! [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Is everyone a helicopter?!]] You think everybody's stupid? Do you think trade unions organize roadblocks nationwide because they like this law so much, or the workers they represent? Four and a half million people's lives are being crippled. [[Nacsa Lawrence:]] You need to back off a little bit and try to get out there with people. Well, you know what? You know what? Don't go out there. [[Intercoms, noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I'm very worried about your safety. [[13.40]] I talk to people. I marched with Borsodi miners this Saturday. Don't know what they said to you, what they wanted to the Fidesz Members, who will vote for this if necessary. See what kind of comments are being made. I'm really worried. I'm seriously concerned about your physical safety, the safety of the Fidesz KDNP MPs. So I would like to suggest that you do not consult anyone now, do not go out with people, pull yourselves together, withdraw this proposal, and do not try to force it through Parliament tomorrow. Thank you very much.
u2018-12-11-182	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was Mrs Bernadett Szél. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2018-12-11-183	Dear Parliament, Lajos Kósa spoke in today's debate and said that the opposition was Marxist. Of course, 83 percent of Hungary is Marxist. Dear Mr. Kósa, This is a situation in which we are now the majority. There are not two thirds of the opposition here, like you in Parliament, but more than four fifths. That's the big deal. He's been able to submit a discriminating bill that's even divisive in his own electoral camp. I was at that protest, there was a Fidesz voter who told me, which I'm not going to quote to you. He told me to tell you... I'm not going to give you this literally, because people are sensitive to being with their families. They are sensitive even before Christmas to listen to them. I find it very harsh that the Prime Minister has spoken today, saying that he thinks the trade unions are wrong. I think that is why trade unions were not consulted before the law was passed, which is why they gave it to individual representatives in a motion, which is why they silenced the trade unions at the committee meeting. But don't let the Prime Minister of Hungary stand there and say that he represents the working Hungarian! Of course not. Then you'd like to hear the Hungarian working, then you'd like to know your opinion. The Prime Minister of Hungary lied when he said he represented the working Hungarian, and that is a fact. It's the same as the fact that you guys have really forgotten what it's like to have a job on the inside. The big thing is that you have no idea what it is like to go to work at dawn, there is also a journey there, to be at work and then to go home; that is why, Mr Kósa, the Hungarian families are talking to the children for 7 minutes now. That's what research showed. I told you to do everything you can to give the Hungarian families more time to each other. With this shameful law, even this will be ruined, families will be divorced, marriages will be broken, children will not be able to be born, and this is not some opposition hysteria, but I believe that anger and despair are justified in society. When do you think the last time there was such an outrage in this country? And that's what you did with this bill. Take it back, Mr. Kosa. Take it back, don't go any further. The third thing I wanted to talk about was that it was amazing to see what was being explained here by pro-government representatives in the corridor, that the Hungarian man goes to Austria and works from vision to blindness, because he lacks overtime at home. No, you don't. [[Morai and the public in the ranks of opposition parties.]] He lacks wages, honourable Members, so that eight hours of work can make a living in this country. Are you volunteering for overwork? What nonsense are you talking about? Show me a worker who says that I volunteer to work overtime and give up my wages because that's what the boss wants. Of course not. [[Márius Révész: How many people take two jobs?]] No, I didn't. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] The big deal, Mr Nacha, is that I was at work, not one, but more, before I became a politician, and I know very well that people are very vulnerable. Cancel this shameful proposal for the benefit of Hungarian families! [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I represent them here now.
u2018-12-11-184	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-12-11-185	Mr President, Dear House, I'd like to draw your government colleagues' attention to taking off that big vest. They don't have anything to do with it. I don't know why you think that you can afford to use the teaching tone we've experienced, because you're the ones who lie from vision to blindness, you're the ones who refer to the treatment of labour shortages in this proposal, and don't lie to me that you're not, you're there, you're writing it down on the paper. You guys lie all the time. While your prime minister in Saudi Arabia was trying to lure the working capital here? The fact that Hungarian wages are favourablely low from their point of view and that the labour code is sufficiently flexible. Your boss has provided the Hungarian people, the Hungarian workers, to the interests of the working capital, thus and in a self-religious manner, to the favor of multinational networks with this bill. Mr. Kósa, there's nothing to be proud of. You are a colonial pattern of behavior when you serve these multinational interests. And they say they dare to explain that if the workers don't like it, they'll go to another job because there's so much labour shortages? Where do you live, Mr. Kósa? I would call you back to this galaxy through the Stargate. Come back! [[Demercation from opposition parties.]] Hundreds of thousands of these Hungarian people vote with their feet to emigrate from Hungary. This is not the place where children are born in the middle of a demographic disaster. So it's quite amazing that you imagine, believe that people are volunteering for overtime, and then voluntarily give up on their own salary. Where do you live, and in what style do you perform all this? I will tell you once again, because I mean it very seriously, that you will be responsible for your crimes in front of the judgment seat of history, and those who laugh in the back, all of us, one by one; we ourselves, of course, will all be accounted for by our actions. I wouldn't be in your shoes. It's going to be a very unpleasant face. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-12-11-186	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the group of the MSZP, Mr Bertalan Tóth is the leader of the group. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-12-11-187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Indeed, one wonders why they are so attached to this bill, why is it that despite its immeasurable rejection, despite facing people's will, it is being forced in an amazing way. The assumption that we have said is increasingly strengthened that a secret pact has been concluded with large capital, Western capital, multi-company companies, as they give them an opportunity to eliminate trade unions, to reduce workers' rights, which can be produced in Hungary as a colony, and to produce products that are likely to be bought by my fellow citizens in better mode in Western Europe. But in addition, I had to realize that there was another reason, and this reason is that workers' rights, workers' protection and trade unions are a real left-wing achievement. The foundations of the Social Democratic Movements were all the workers' movements that led to the creation of trade unions, the strengthening of workers' rights, and the loss of vulnerability in the workplace. CHAPTER XXI This is what we should be talking about, the century we've turned to, that the working man gets protection at work, and it's not just about getting his salary, it's about what his working conditions are, he can stand up for his interests, and the trade unions help him to do that. I had to find out, my fellow Members, that you have a chill on your back when you hear the word "worker" when you hear the word "union." The right angle is out of the bag! You hate workers from guts, hate trade unions from guts. [[László Böröcz moves his right hand horizontally in front of his face. Bangóné Borbély Ildikó Böröcz turning to László: Don't wave.]] Because it's their value system. How does the Prime Minister say today that he is on the side of the workers, and that you want to have such a law voted by Parliament, and that the proposal in the European Parliament on the European Labour Authority is being voted down, which is precisely the task of ensuring the rights and interests of workers and workers with free movement in Europe. You're gonna vote against this, and the Prime Minister has the nerve to tell you he's on the side of the workers. It's a miracle he could say the word "worker" without a fright. This is your real problem! [[Dr. László Varga will be replaced by Gergely Arató in the notary seat.]] They make it impossible, they kill the unions. The community that can protect you, and that's your goal. In everything, that is your goal, to keep the people alone, and the great leader will protect them. You're destroying communities. They're destroying the protection of interests that a community can provide to its members. The best thing for you is to lock yourselves in your homes, mind your own business, and you will protect them, and in the meantime, you will inexorably steal people's money. Bring home your land, your wealth. That's your policy. That's why it bothers you amazingly that the workers have rights and the workers' rights must be protected. If you vote in favour of this law, then the workers will know whose side they are on, believe me, they will not believe that the Prime Minister is just saying that, because they will see what vulnerability means in their own hands. Take it back! Congressman, withdraw this bill. [[13.50]] A few years ago, your committee president wiped this thing off the table and told me exactly that it was impossible to deliver the workers. It's all about hate from the guts against the working people and making a deal with the multinationals. The German Secretary of State for Labour says that there is no ceiling in Germany, because there are collective agreements between trade unions, but there is no company in Germany where more than 200 hours of work should be carried out by workers. That's why they want to wipe out the unions. They will confront employers and put workers in a vulnerable position, and they will have no choice but to enter the pressure. Mr President, you have said not only in this debate, but several times, that there is no mention of the sixth working day this week, there is no mention that employers will force this overtime on workers here, and they may not even be ordered to do so. It's not like they're gonna pay this overtime in three years. Then why did you submit this law? If nothing is going to come of it, they're not going to apply anything, so why did you submit it? I urge you once again to withdraw this proposal.
u2018-12-11-188	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Mr Lajos Kósa has applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-12-11-189	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. President. Dear House, It's on the employee side who creates jobs. [[An uproar in the ranks of opposition parties.]] The Fidesz government and its prime minister rightly said that Fidesz was actually on the side of workers, because when the socialists governed, there were less than 3.5 million people employed in the work, today it is more than 800 thousand. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: With 16-year-olds already working...!]] Meanwhile, the minimum wage has been doubled by the Fidesz government, the minimum wage for skilled workers has also been doubled by the Fidesz government. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Oh, my God!]] In the meantime, we gave that money back to people through the reduction of the rent. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Is that why you're not taking the garbage?]] which the Socialists took away with the 13th month's wage, the 13th month's pension and the reversal of the child welfare and family support system. This was when the socialists stood by the workers. When the Fidesz government supports this proposal, it is not true what you are saying, it does not provide workers, because workers must also have their own will and their own consent in writing, and it is part of it, our fellow group leader, our fellow Member, that it is only possible to live with it if the collective agreement or the working council, which otherwise represents the community of workers, agrees with the employer on the time frame of settlement. So we're going to put something in the hands of the trade unions, against what you're saying, and into the hands of the workers. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Louis, assure me that you do not believe this.]] We simply want to create an opportunity, because in the whole world of work, 500,000 people are affected by this part of the proposal to put them in a bargaining position, to have the opportunity to say that it is good, we understand the employer's request that there is seasonality and that they want to impose overwork [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Why are you on their side?]] At the end of which, by the way, at the end of the accounting period, it must be returned on leave, but otherwise we should rightly say that we would like to ask for more money. [[A statement in DK's ranks: It's a good thing they don't do it for free!]] It's an opportunity to live with, which, by the way, you're trying to get out of people's hands because you're telling me not to make any more money. We know this position, which has been the philosophy of your administration all along. In one way, you have not only wanted to deprive those people of their opportunities, but not just under their government, to whom we might have wanted to say something. Therefore, the opposition unanimously voted against the proposal for a law on pensioners' cooperatives when it was voluntary. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Are you talking about the 3000 billion?]] when it was just that if you want to work a few hours a week, let's make it possible for him; you opposed the framework of pensioner overemployment that the government voted for. [[Interjection in Jobbik's ranks: He's already failed!]] It's about getting a discount for anyone who wants to stay, working a few more years, because he can afford his strength, his health, his pleasure. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: What prevents him from staying? You're kidding.]] This has also been swept away, as has been the case with proposals concerning the world of work, which have been positive for employers, and have been swept away. This attitude is not unknown, and the old memories are unknown; we know that the socialist indicator is actually a pillaging, socialist democracy means that there is no democracy, socialist worker protection means that we are politicalising against the workers. We've seen this from you, thank you very much, we don't want any of it. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: You're no longer a young Democrat! Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] One more thing, my dear House. Of course, 100 percent of Hungarians say no to proposing to introduce Saturday's work. But there is no such suggestion. [[Antal Csárdi: That's all you want! Bence of Turdai: How does 400 hours come out? Interjection in the opposition's ranks: a textual problem... the president's ringing the bell.]] The measurement that you come up with here has been asking all kinds of questions that my proposal doesn't contain. [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties.]] It doesn't contain it, it doesn't contain it in any way! Yeah, please tell me that you are, by the way... what did your glorious leader say? We lied this morning, night and night. This is your political credo: to lie, to lie, to lie. Okay. [[Bence of Turdai: What are you doing?]] That's why they stand like this, which is why voters support you in such vast amounts. [[Zsolt Gréczy: More people voted against you than they voted against you! Even so!]] As far as you're concerned, a few percent. And go ahead, because by the way, they didn't teach you any of that election defeat, which was about lying to people all the time, people finding out and rejecting you. They still think that this proposal [[Zsolt Gréczy: How's your pig farm?]] If you lie to me, if you lie through the whole thing, you'll be on your side. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Your mother's pig farm...?]] But I warn you, use your common sense if you still have one. On January 2nd, the sun rises, and it turns out that no one has introduced Saturday's mandatory work, so they won't give you any credit. It turns out that trade unions have in their hands the means to contribute to the collective agreement or not to the 36-hour settlement framework. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Thank you for your concern, Lajos!]] And if they say they didn't, then what did we rob people of? It turns out that by the way, people have to make a statement about taking on the overwork. And if they say no, so what? [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties.]] While there is a shortage of workers today, so workers are in a good position, they are in a bargaining position. [[Interjection in Jobbik's ranks: Tell them!]] You remember when everyone under the socialist government was infinitely exposed because there was no job. But this isn't the world. The party of workers, who creates jobs, who creates economic policies when taxes fall, does not increase when family subsidies increase when people have the opportunity to create homes. That's what Fidesz said, and that's what we're doing, and that's what we're asking for, not anything else. [[Márta Demeter: Where is the salary increase?]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-11-190	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the DK Group is Mr Székely Sándor. Here you go.
u2018-12-11-191	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, When I was a metropolitan representative in the previous term, a proposal was made five minutes before the general assembly, this was the e-ticket system, then we told the opposition colleagues not to sign this, because if they sign this, we don't even know the content of a hundreds or thousands of pages of paper, it's likely to end infidel treatment. Three to four years later, that was confirmed. That was only seven billionaires, and I know it's not really an item for you. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes. Zsolt Gréczy: They don't even bend down for that! Intervention in the ranks of the governing parties: Ferenc Gyurcsány!]] Unfortunately, it's an incredibly serious sum for the rest of the country. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] What I want to say to you now, and perhaps my fellow opposition Members, will say to you that if you will vote on this law tomorrow, which we do not offer, then you will not commit unfaithful treatment, but, in fact, treason. But they're not betraying us, and they're not even betraying the country, but I think they're betraying their own voters. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] You'll have to deal with that, and we'll hope that as soon as possible, and then we'll see when that happens. You have had nine years to govern, for the most part, two-thirds of the time, to do the things you have said, to take Hungary back, to create prosperity, to bring us closer to Europe, to improve health care, education or anything like that, to create pensions, or to give back the 13th month's pension that has been lost in the global economic crisis. [[14.00]] So you've had nine years to do this. Now laws have been brought here in the last three months, and it is clear that you have reported bankruptcy, you have taken away the cafetheria, you have taken away the house savings, and now you are asking the Hungarian population to create an opportunity not to work less for more money, but to work much more, who knows how much money, and who knows when to pay for money. That's just plain impertinent. By the way, the amazing thing is, I heard you guys say that some people have two jobs. We know that. We know you can't make a living on a job. You're admitting it. But not only is half of the country out of a job, but half of the country in black work with a minimum wage or some kind of salary. This was caused by the fantastic economic progression of nine years. Compared to this, you will now bring in these laws, which will lead next year not only to a salary increase, but also to a reduction in salaries, and to even work 13-14 months at all, because that is what they want. Sure. Just like the retired miners who want to go down to the mine again, I heard that here a few weeks ago, and they came to you to give you a chance to go down there again. It's quite obvious, this is the reality planet, isn't it? So I think that with this law, you will admit that you have ruined the last nine years and, by the way, have stolen Hungary's future for a long time. I ask you very much not to vote for this bill. Thank you very much.
u2018-12-11-192	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go. [[Moray from the opposition benches. Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]]
u2018-12-11-193	I listened to you, too. [[It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Thank you very much. We have heard quite interesting opposition speeches in recent times. We can all remember when Congresswoman Bernadett Szél worked for one of the Soros organisations because her boss said that immigrants are better than the domestic population. [[Dr. Tamás Harangozó: Orbán worked there too!]] That was when... [[It's a lot of noise. Márta Demeter: You're talking nonsense!]] That was when Wind Bernadett stood up for the workers... [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Get back to work. There's always a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] This was when Bernadett Wind stood up for the workers and Hungarian citizens [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Don't get in line, talk about the workers. I don't care what you say!]] when your boss said that immigrants are better than domestic populations. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó's intervention.]] The fact that there are tough debates in Parliament [[Constant interruptions.]] I think it's okay. But that ignominious dog comedy that you did here yesterday to try to stop the National Assembly from operating is, I think, even by opposition standards, the worst of what we have now. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Are you talking about Lezsák? Dr. László Varga: Careful! What do you think you're doing?]] Before you come here and talk about this law or take a stand at your press conferences outside, you should read the law to him. [[Bence of Turdai: We read your law, that's the problem!]] 'Cause it doesn't have the things you're saying. I would very much ask you to stop the hysteria and tension that you are now causing among Hungarian workers at your press conferences at your protests! [[There's a lot of noise from the opposition benches. Z. Carpathian Daniel: Sit down, Number One!]] It's useless because it's not in the law. It's fake news and tense, stop it! [[It's an uproar. Zsolt Gréczy: Dissemination? Dániel Z. Carpathian: See a Doctor]] The other thing that should be finished is the threat that Bence Tordai represents here, and Dániel Z. Karpát is threatening here with judgmental courts. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You have lost 150 lawsuits! What are you talking about? Dr. László Varga: Very serious!]] Bence of Turda told us yesterday to take care of our physical safety. [[Bence of Turda: I'm worried about you!]] 'Cause there's gonna be trouble. He also told me yesterday at the cafeteria and told me today at the plenary session. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: It's not your fault that you don't understand!]]
u2018-12-11-194	Excuse me, Congressman, for a minute. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to mention by name those whose voices [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Easy, Mr. President. Further intervention: We don't care anymore!]] It's decisive. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Recorded! We'll be proud of him someday.]] Please allow the Member to give his speech. Thank you for your understanding.
u2018-12-11-195	I reject the threat you're putting in our direction. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: The voters sent a message!]] I think that Bertalan Tóth has also said that the social democratic acquis, the trade union acquis... Mr Group Leader, XIII. Pope Leo defined innovations and initiatives affecting workers and workers in Rerum novarum encyclicals [[Dr. Bertalan Tóth: Was the 400 hours written in it?]] Which you, on the left, the Marxist left stole and twisted. That's how we got here! That's how we got here. [[Dr. Tamás Harangozó: Sick!]] Ferenc Gyurcsány, the socialists together, have made a million people unemployed. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Yesterday your boss told you to go to the doctor!]] So they made an alliance with the anarchist faction... [[Dr. László Varga: You're pathetic, man. It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] That's how they tied... [[Dr. László Varga: Pathetic!]]
u2018-12-11-196	Allow Congressman Nacsa to tell us. Thank you.
u2018-12-11-197	A million. The truth may hurt, Congressman Varga, but a million people have lost their jobs. [[Dr. László Varga: You're pathetic, man.]] A million people lost their jobs, and the aid was kept so close to the minimum wage that it wasn't worth working for. When did you speak when you sold the Hungarian industry for tobacco to foreign companies and guaranteed profits, the contract guaranteed profits to foreign companies for selling the entire Hungarian industry for tobacco? I think they should talk about it. And what have you done to get us here, to have 4.5 million people working in this country? [[Zsolt Gréczy: Where? Intercoms: Oh, oh! Zsolt Gréczy: London!]] Is it about 5 percent economic growth, that since 2013 there has been a steady rise in average wages and a rise in pensions? What have you done? Nothing! If it were up to you, we'd be in the same state of bankruptcy that you led the country into in 2010. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: It's 2018!]] For us, the goal is clear: who wants to work more and make more money to remove bureaucratic obstacles [[A statement from the opposition's benches: Are you trying to reassure yourself? The intervention of Zsolt Gréczy.]] That's our goal. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: These are not bureaucratic obstacles!]] Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-12-11-198	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Group of Dialogue is Mr Tamás Mellar. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-12-11-199	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to comment on Mr Kósa's comment. He said that in recent years a two-digit increase in real wages has been observed. If we take this and use the chain index number calculation from 2010, then it comes to the fact that real wages have doubled over these seven years. You don't like to think that they've actually doubled. [[Lajos Kósa: I didn't say that from 2010! Don't twist my words.]] Even undersecretaries don't say that. They say that real wages, gross real earnings, have increased by 36 percent, but this is also true of companies with more than five employees. In fact, if we calculated real wages and real earnings on the basis of the national figures of the HCSO, we would indeed get that real wages increased by only 14 percent compared to 2010, and this is not exactly the same. So why don't you guys take a look at this? The other thing you mentioned, Mr Kósa, is that now 4.5 million people are employed in Hungary, and before 2010, it was 3 million 800 thousand. The only thing is that these two numbers cannot be compared because they are calculated using a different methodology. Public workers and workers abroad are included in today's report. The rubric of this is that you are employed at a foreign establishment. By the way, if we were to seriously eliminate this, employment is still under four million. But if you don't believe it, look at the fact that if employment had indeed increased by 17 percent compared to 2010, but real GDP has also increased by 17 percent, then your figures show that productivity has increased by 0 percent. [[Interventions from the opposition benches: Like this, like this! That's right!]] during these seven years. Here's your answer. I think that there are no 4.5 million people employed in Hungary, it is good that there are 4 million people, and that is why productivity has also increased by some amount. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Intervention from the opposition benches: Like this, like this! Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2018-12-11-200	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Fidesz Group, Mr Horváth László is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-12-11-201	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, At the beginning, I would just like to raise a formal question, because the Commission's reports were made before the comments by its representatives, and two minority positions from the TAB were also presented. I would like to pay tribute to the fact that Vice-President László Varga's statement of minority position was about what happened to him yesterday. So it can't really be considered... [[Dr. Laszlo Varga: Come on! Take it easy.]] This cannot be considered... [[There's a lot of noise from the opposition benches.]] Fellow Members, calm down, calm down. [[The president's ringing the bell. Bence of Turda: What do you think you're doing?]] Calm down. [[Further interventions from the opposition benches.]] Calm down. [[Dr. László Varga: At a meeting...]]
u2018-12-11-202	Congressman! [[Dr. László Varga keeps talking. Lárinc Nacsa to Dr. László Varga: Be quiet!]] Congressman! Congressman Horváth, the President has the sovereign right to decide whether the debate is about what the bill is or not. What you're saying to me right now is that I've allowed you to do what you're doing. [[Cry from the benches of Jobbik: Guard! Defiance in the opposition's benches.]] So I'm asking you to get to the topic.
u2018-12-11-203	Thank you, Mr President, I accept. In any case, I would advise you not to take the liberty of doing so, but I would really like to point out to you that when criticism is being made... and I say to Mr. Peter James, because I was young in this House, not as young as you were, but at the age of 28, I was a young Titan. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Hard to imagine!]] And I've been loud. [[14.10]] But what I can tell you, with all our hearts, is that when you criticize the other's political opinion, position, values, you cannot accept or reject it, you should not offend the other in your humanity, because it comes back to him. [[Dr. Tamás Harangozó: Discuss with your secretary of state.]] That's why I'm telling you all, with all due respect, that you don't insult each other in your humanity. [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] Okay, all right, Congressman, I respectfully recommended this to you. The other is that, if they are in the interests of workers and so vehemently, I think that workers are looking at this debate strangely when they are watching it. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: If you don't turn it off like yesterday.]] Because there are things happening here, especially on the part of the opposition, that workers are not used to. So, for example, if they don't like something, they leave work with whistles, drums, violins and screams, this is unknown to workers. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: At least we came to work! And you're out of here! Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] It's also unknown what they're doing now...
u2018-12-11-204	Excuse me, Congressman, for a minute. Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea, a lady, to say the least, is not very elegant. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Don't always refer to it, Mr President, as a lady. Because it's for a man?]]
u2018-12-11-205	... may also be quite interesting for workers, because in workplaces, they don't chant and yell at each other unenigmatically, they don't insult. And for workers, of course, working time is very important, but perhaps it is even more important to have something to do. Let's get a job. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Till nosebleed!]] And the thing is, in the case of employment, the performance of opposition representatives who are shouting loudly here today is quite thin. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Why didn't you come to the debate?]] Because in terms of employment, to have something to do with it, they didn't do enough. They supported quite a few cases, which were intended to support employment and job creation. The other is that Mr Kósa, my fellow Member, has already listed what has not been supported, but it is only a little side-sided when they are holding on to the working-time card as a card bearing everything. No one apart from some new political formations may have a history, not a history, so it would be better to keep the voice down a little bit. For example, before 2010, my fellow Member Korózs is not here right now, but some of us remember when they decided to make health care private. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: You did it! Nacsa Lőrinc: It was you!]] And, wait a minute, I'm gonna talk about representing employees. You've talked about everything here. And what happened then was that with the power of power, for example, in Eger, at Markhot Ferenc Hospital, they made the hand in private with the power of power. Whoever didn't sign it could have gone right away. And then it was stated that anyone who didn't sign it, a doctor and a nurse, not only can't get a job in Eger, but in all of Heves County. And they chased a doctor, a nurse, anyone who didn't sign at the time out of county. Where was the employee protection? Where was the employee's dignity? I think I missed him. That's why it might be better... I do not ask you to be as fair to us as you always give to yourself, but you can also see from this example that they are always very fair to you. The fact is that they do not live in a different world, but always confuse their own state with the state of the country and confuse their own well-being with the well-being of the country. And you're not in good shape, but don't think this country is in bad shape. The country is in good condition, in much better condition than it was before 2010. [[Dr. Tamás Harangozó: Say two sentences about the law. What's in the law?]] Since they think that if you feel bad, everyone should feel this way, so if there's an opportunity, they're trying to make a tremendous hysteria out of everything... [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: What about the law? The president's ringing the bell.]] That is not what you were talking about, Mr Bellozó, you were talking about Lajos Kósa in your speech, not the law. So the hysteria, the really compulsive hysteria, is because they want everyone in this country to feel as bad as you feel. And it always turns out, neatly, because there's been all kinds of action, set-up, banner, beeping, loudspeaker, Jobbik was also, that he'd sabotaged the presidential pulpit, because there won't be any foreigners taking the land away. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Why didn't they take her?]] And all the hysteria turned out to be unsubstantiated. What's happening here, this hysteria, it's gonna turn out that it wasn't based either. And as far as shirking a certain angle is concerned, it is also talkative that you made that 3,000 amendments this weekend. I believe that their colleagues did not work on regular working hours, and I think that it was not even a matter of debate that this had to be done; there was, I think, a lot of work there with this thousands of amendments, and they caused work to be done not only to their colleagues, because they cannot be said no to you, but also to the parliamentary apparatus. So everyone who lives decides. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-11-206	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr Lajos Rig. Here you go.
u2018-12-11-207	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Well, it's very difficult to speak after Congressman Horváth's warnings. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Then you don't have to!]] Because he knows what it was ten years ago, because from the SZDSZ to the Fidesz, that could have been the point of his speech, but that is not the case here. About the things you're saying here, and it's a complete lie. Put your hands up in the room, who was a union leader among you. [[An application in Jobbik's ranks.]] Nobody. I do. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: I wondered what you were doing there.]] I know how this works: the employer can terminate the collective agreement at any time, and repeal it, and from there the Labour Code will enter into force. And what kind of union leaders do you have now, say, the health system? Agnes Cser? The person who signs everything nods at everything and says it's the right thing to do, and that's the right thing to do? And that's what you want? Well, let's just say it's a voluntary overwork here. Do you know what that is? And you didn't make that up, it's been in the health system for years, because it's the only way to maintain this system. And now they're throwing an extra 400 hours at these people who maintain this system. It's causing chaos! The people in this room were nowhere near work, let alone in the world of work. I've always told you that when you visit a health system and leave, you're not only bad for a worker, you're bad for a visitor in a system like this. They are not on the side of employees before 2010, but they are not now. Why not? Well, your man from Körmend, the chairman of the local government's health committee, who was the head of Medisyst Kft., who operated the Tapolca Hospital, was the head of Fidesz in 2009, and in 2009 he wanted to release 220 people in a group. Well, that's what you did then, and now you're forcing people to go abroad. Is that what these workers want? No, I didn't. The union leaders who will sit down with the employers will be as intimidated as they were a few years ago. And let's not talk about jobs where there are no workers' councils, no trade unions. No one's talking about it. My fellow Member, who told us not to be personal, is right. Because it's not supposed to be personal. So I am not following the example of opposition representatives who said that Lajos Kósa's mental capacity is being questioned. I'd say when you think, you're out of luck, so I wish you luck. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition. Nacsa Lőrinc: Another spritzer would be nice! Have another drink.]] Want some? Come on?
u2018-12-11-208	Congressman! I'm not saying anything... [[Defiance.]] The next speaker was Mr László Böröcz of Fidesz. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]]
u2018-12-11-209	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[It's constant noise.]]
u2018-12-11-210	[[Turning to opposition benches:]] Congressman, you don't have a word. [[14.20]]
u2018-12-11-211	Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure you've been talking to a lot of people on this subject. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: We do!]] I know people who work in a factory like this. [[There's a constant murmur on the opposition side.]] And I have people who work in this factory who don't agree with your position.
u2018-12-11-212	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you very nicely, Christmas is coming, try to be a little more humane to the other, not too much to ask. For an intelligent, intelligent person, that's not too much to ask. That's what I'm asking of you. Here you go, Congressman, carry on.
u2018-12-11-213	Thank you very much. It is very talkative for the opposition, however, that when Congressman Nacsa started speaking to Congressman Csárdi, they immediately began to wonder what kind of system this was. You don't give any respect to any of the members of the government. [[Constant noise on the opposition side.]] When I was a kid, my grandmother used to say they sound like drivers. You guys talk like drivers, but you act like drivers. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Why do you look down on drivers?]] It is the road-side style that you represent in this Parliament. Otherwise, the minority complex and the obsession with acting can be treated. Anyone who doesn't have a shirt doesn't take it personally, but many of you are being disrespectful and disrespectful in this House. Here is Congressman Bence of Tordai, who allows himself a style that goes beyond all limits. It's very interesting that you don't respect the House, you don't respect the rules of this House, yet you're in the position of notary. I'm asking why. It's probably because of the higher salary. Congratulations.
u2018-12-11-214	Congressman, I would also ask you not to bring this debate to a personal level. [[Noise on the opposition side.]] I ask you not to force me to exercise my right under the house rules. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Long live they can do nothing else!]] Congresswoman, I'm warning you. And I would like to draw your attention to the fact that from now on I will take advantage of the discipline given by the house rules. Madam Congresswoman, you, as Deputy Group Leader, should understand this in particular. Thank you very much. Go on, Congressman.
u2018-12-11-215	Thank you very much. I just wanted to say that there are workers who understand exactly what the amendment is about and do not fall for your lying propaganda. There are plants where there are not enough orders in January or February, so workers work less, and when orders come, they will obviously replace it with extra work. The current amendment of the law, tabled by Mr Kósa and Mr Kósa, provides an opportunity for employers and workers to decide on effective work in common agreement. You obviously have a problem with that. But I would like to warn you that based on a biased opinion poll, your political stand may not be too lucky. In recent times, we have seen that in the parliamentary elections in 2018, it was clear that the policy that you have represented is doomed to failure. You can spread lies about the government, but people know exactly what this government has done for the Hungarian working people. There's a rise in wages, as we've heard. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that real wage increases are only possible if the country's economy is working well. And the work of the last eight years has established that this country's economy is working well. I would like to say to our socialist friends that you also had 6.5 percent of GDP, the only problem is that it had a negative sign in 2009. You have destroyed this country economically. [[Noise on the opposition side.]] The global crisis...
u2018-12-11-216	Congressman, this is no longer a general debate. I'm asking you to talk about what the bill is about, things about working time management and temporary agency work. Here you go.
u2018-12-11-217	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So this bill helps workers, helps employers, and allows everyone who wants to work more and earn more money to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-11-218	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mrs Bangóné Borbély Ildikó. Here you go.
u2018-12-11-219	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to read a letter from a voter, a worker, dear Members of the Fidesz. [[Read:]] Viktor! For what reason do you and Kósa want to break the slave law on us? Man, do you know what 16 hours a day is? I'll help you. I'll write it down. 4:00 a.m., 4:00 a.m., 4:00 a.m. bus, 6:00 a.m., 10:00 a.m. bus, and I'll be home after 11:00. Midnight, by the time the worker goes to bed, and the next day again. I'm sure the worker can sleep four hours in a glass factory near the furnace or in a car factory next to the presses or in an electronics factory next to a Heller furnace. Or if he's a driver, I'm sure he'll be on top. Now, I just have one question: why the hell did you send this national consultation? You dare to send it to my family? Yes, you had skin on your fidesty face, and you sent this to me before Christmas! Blessed, peaceful Christmas to Lajos Kósa, his whole dear family and his fidesz fellow Members. That's what you got, Congressman Kósa, because it's copied. [[Lajos Kósa: I didn't get one of these.]] You should read the voters' letters, my fellow Member. And thousands of people have described what is wrong with this slave law. I wish you a blessed, peaceful, merry Christmas, and tomorrow, when we vote on this law, read these workers' letters before you. And I would have liked you, Congressman, to be at this demonstration on Saturday and to have listened to the messages that we do not dare to say here, because then you would have sent us out and banned us from this debate, Mr President. I wish you'd heard, Congressman. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-12-11-220	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker from the DK Group is Mr Zsolt Gréczy.
u2018-12-11-221	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I don't have a lot of time, but I'm just gonna take half a minute for your amazing economic performance. Last week, it turned out that the biggest budget deficit in the last thirty years has been brought together, you have the world's largest VAT, you have made the largest petrol price, you have made the weakest forint and the largest sovereign debt. That's your economic performance. What you need to know about this law is that health surveys show that the overtime they want to introduce increases the risk of accidents, increases the risk of heart disease, coronary artery disease and strokes in every workplace. According to the research, if someone works 60-70 hours a week, the chances of coronary artery disease increase by 42 percent. Obviously, this risk increases with less overtime. The risk of stroke increases to a similar extent. This means no less than that this law must be rejected. You will be complicit in the genocide against the Hungarians. What you are doing is ruining Hungarian families, family fathers and family mothers will lose their lives, children will lose their parents, and they will not only lose them by running into each other on Sunday night and asking what the lesson was, but also by going to the cemetery. We will prevent this law from entering into force, in consultation with the unions. And where the wall is, as far as we're gonna go, it's not gonna be up to you, it's gonna be us. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-12-11-222	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Márius Révész asked for the floor from the Fidesz Group. [[Moraj on the opposition side. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2018-12-11-223	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I've been a Member of Parliament for 20 years, and what happened yesterday was one of the biggest scandals in the last 20 years. There was one in 2013, which was bigger than that. We remember, in connection with the amendment of the land law, the goodies went up, shook the bell, and the same threats were made. In the same way, they said that we would be before the judgment seat of history, and much more has been said. But what did it become? Did the foreigners take the land? No, fellow Members. [[György Szilágyi: You took it! Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] It turned out that none of what was said at the time was true, and that, moreover, in 2017, an EU court ruling was issued, which just said that we had gone too far with the law. [[14.30]] I think what happened yesterday will happen exactly the same. January will start, and it will come out very quickly that what you have said is simply not true. I would like to respond to some of the questions that have been raised in the debate. For example, we have just heard from Congressman Gréczy. Let me just say, Mr President, last week or two weeks ago, the statistics on the standard of living of households were published, and I do not know if you have noticed, for example, that the number of people living in severe material deprivation, which, to be exact, was 23.4 percent in 2010, to 10.2 percent. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: You don't believe that. Calm me down.]] This means that today the number of poor people in Hungary has decreased by less than half since 2010, and the number of people living in severe material deprivation has decreased by more than 50 percent. [[There are constant interruptions from Jobbik and DK.]] But, by the way, the proportion of those at risk of poverty or social exclusion has fallen from 31.5 percent to 19,6 percent. This is also a decrease of more than one third. And why is that, Congressman? It's because there are 800,000 people working in Hungary today. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Not in Hungary.]] Mr Tamás Mellar says that this was not the increase in income. But, indeed, in recent years, there has been an increase in income of 8 percent, 10 percent and more than 10 percent in Hungary. [[Bence of Turda: You weren't listening.]] By the way, you can also look at consumption statistics in Europe. It is one of the biggest increases in Hungary, which has occurred in the last four years in the field of consumption expansion. [[Bence Tordai: Do you want to debate statistics with Tamás Mellar?]] So I think that it is really possible to talk about who has done what they have done for Hungarian workers, but the fact is that sometimes it is also worth looking at statistical data. Ladies and gentlemen, I think they have some truth about workers being vulnerable to such a law. The fact is, if we had introduced this law 5-6 years ago, workers would have been vulnerable. It's just, I don't know, you're shooting the papers about the two-year pay agreement that the employers had to make with the Mercedes factory employees, for example? Do you know how much? They've committed 35 percent over the next two years to keep the Mercedes factory employees. Workers are in a completely different position now that we are close to full employment than they were at your time. I don't think there's any danger you're talking about. In addition, there have been some contradictions in your argument, because once they say that some of the workers are forced to take two or more jobs. By the way, some of the workers are forced to take up overtime black because there are legal barriers now to additional work. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we would like to change that. Then you say that there is no worker in life who is in a position to need more money, more work. Actually, I do. There are many such workers, and we want to make their situation easier with this law. The fact is that we are not trying to force you to take a job in another workplace, but if you voluntarily, once again, want to do so, you can also work overtime at your own workplace if you are forced to do so by chance. Once again, there has been quite a rise in wages over the past period, and the situation of workers has improved a lot compared to 2010, the fact is that they are in a completely different situation, but there are still workers who are forced to do extra work because of some construction or other reason. That's what you're trying to stop. While, again, I got a hint just now, I actually spoke to an employee in Austria who said that he went out to Austria because he wanted to make money. He works in a hotel for three months, otherwise without an extra day off, he takes a lot of overtime because he wants to make money. I said that there must be some workers who, in this case, if there will be an opportunity to undertake extra work in Hungary, if they are given the opportunity, they may take this opportunity and not leave. Because, ladies and gentlemen, let us face it, there are some workers who are forced to do more work, but I think they must admit that, under today's labour market conditions, this can only happen voluntarily, and no one can be forced to do so. I think it would be worth stopping this alarm, and once again, in January, the moment of truth will come, and it will turn out that what you have said and by which you have deceived people is simply not true. It is not as true as the alarm about the law was not true. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-12-11-224	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr György Szilágyi is next from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-12-11-225	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. This debate is also about how much Fidesz-KDNP representatives are interested in workers. So much so, my fellow Members, just over 10 percent of your representatives are sitting in the Chamber at the moment. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You haven't been in all day.]] Less than 10 percent, that's how much they don't care about employees. And then, Congressman Nacsa, while you're yelling, you brought George Soros here. Congressman Nacsa, if there's a Soros plan, do you know what it is? Viktor Orbán and Fidesz. That was the Soros plan, which, unfortunately, was implemented in this country. You're talking about a shortage of workers here. Indeed, you have done a great deal for the lack of labour. Do you know why they've done so much? Because a significant part of the cream of Hungarian workers has been chased away from this country, who work abroad. Lajos Kósa, if you've yelled at me now, I can't decide at Lajos Kósa whether to say such incompetences in his professional incompetence, such as the Sports Act, when he called Real Madrid a Catalan team or deliberately lying. And I'm thinking that you're deliberately lying, because that's what your entire government is based on. The only thing they do is they're pushing their filth in government propaganda. Congressman Böröcz, President of the truth-telling Fidelitas, also spoke of lying propaganda. Well, you're the one who's doing the lying propaganda in this country. They do mean things in a series, and instead of reality, they flood people with lies. And, fellow Members, because we have been accountable for what we are saying here, not threats, these are calls for attention. 'Cause this won't go away for long if you like it, Congressman Nacsa, if you don't. One day, you and Lajos Kósa will have to face people, and you will be amazed at what people think of you, because you have been thrown away from reality, and you believe that within this Parliament you know everything, you have the Philosopher's Stone, and you are an incompetent nobody. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Lajos Kósa: In April people decided that. Nacsa Lőrinc: What do you think you're doing? What do you think you're doing?!]]
u2018-12-11-226	Congressman! The thing is, you're the notary of the Parliament. You must pay particular attention to what you say, and in your anger you cannot allow such a word to slip out of your mouth. That's why I'm warning you. Thank you. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] Mr. Zsolt Gréczy is next. Here you go.
u2018-12-11-227	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would really just like to respond that it is very rude when Fidesz MEPs claim that foreigners did not take the Hungarian land. Well, they're not, just the Orbán family and Mészáros Lőrincé half of Hungary. Shame on you, and you'll have to deal with that, among other things. Thank you very much.
u2018-12-11-228	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr Peter James. Here you go.
u2018-12-11-229	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I recently called Mr. Prime Minister a horse's pile, and I was wrong, you're not dealing with horses, you're dealing with people. Part of this is the current slave law. We all know that labour market problems can be solved by a substantial wage increase. Compared to this, you had the courage to call a hundred thousand forints salary a joy here in Parliament, saying that it wasn't even that long ago. You had the courage to take the cafeteria away from the workers, hurting them with 90,000 forints a year. They had the courage to spread this depraved slave law to get the workers to work for free for three years. They also had the courage to install 20,000 Ukrainian migrant workers, so that they didn't have to raise wages by accident. In fact, they had the courage to argue that while we were raising the minimum wage by 5% or 13 percent, you raised the wages of your own ministers by 354 percent over a year, to HUF 5 million. Colleagues! You obviously don't have any shame, but it would be nice if you had at least a feeling of fear, because you have someone to fear, you have something to fear. You are putting workers in a corner who will soon have nothing to lose. Mr. Kósa, I live in Borsod, I hear what people say. You're a persona non grata, don't get too close. Don't vote for it. Don't vote for the slave bill, or if they do, stand up in front of the workers and say to their eyes that it's for your own good, that's good for you. Well, that's gonna take a lot of guts. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[14.40]]
u2018-12-11-230	Thank you, Congressman. Congressman Tamás Bellozó asked for the floor in order of business. In a minute, the order of business proposal and a minute's justification. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-12-11-231	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It won't take that long. Before the time frame runs out of all the factions, I think that there is a man sitting in this Chamber who is particularly adequate and who should listen to his opinion on any amendments to the Code of Work. And that's the one who's running the bridge as the manager of the program. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches. György Szilágyi: Let's hear it!]] He knows a lot about how to work decently with the workers. I suggest we listen to Florian Wolf on this bill. Thank you very much. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Bravo! György Szilágyi: Where is 1.6 billion? Applause from the opposition.]]
u2018-12-11-232	Congressman, the only thing I can offer everyone is that this proposal, Congressman, you know very well... [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Let's vote on it! Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: Vote!]] But Congressman, it doesn't work that way. A congressman speaks when he applies, forcing someone to do so is not possible. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: But they don't give a word! Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: We can't wait! György Szilágyi: We are talking about 1600 million HUF, Mr President. Intervention from the opposition benches: Flóri, Flóri!]] I would like to ask my fellow Members, who would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kósa, one of the authors. Here you go, Congressman. You have three minutes, Congressman.
u2018-12-11-233	Mr. President. Dear House, In closing the debate, I would just like to point out a few facts to everyone. The Hungarian Parliament has clear house rules, which dictates how to comment, how to state arguments and how to amend the law. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: And the debate is closed! The president's ringing the bell.]] The only one member of the opposition did not take the effort to submit a single amendment until the current deadline. Not a single one. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] That was a lot to talk about. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: We want to take it all back! Dr. Wind Bernadett: Retract poop!]] text was jeremiada, Armageddon prediction and infinite amounts of lies. [[Dr. László Varga: Take it back!]] Lies, lies; as the great sage of the opposition, Ferenc Gyurcsány, used to say: we lied in the morning, lied in the night, lied in the evening. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] It's interesting that Jobbik took over, but with their hearts, there's a left-wing approach. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Oh, dear.]] It's a rollover, dear right-wing congressmen. [[Intercoms from the opposition. The president's ringing the bell.]] So it is also necessary to get used to the fact that, unfortunately, the views on Ferenc Gyurcsány must be loved, to learn to love, because you are trying to bring this hug together. [[A statement from the opposition: Says the Liberal International... György Szilágyi: And how many Communists are there in Fidesz? Intervention from the opposition: List them! Nacsa Lawrence: It's better than being an anti-Semite! The president's ringing the bell.]] Mr. President. Dear House,
u2018-12-11-234	Congressman Szilágyi, I warn you. Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea, I'm warning you. My fellow Members, take it easy. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: It's almost over, Mr. President.]] This is the rest of a minute and a half. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: How difficult, Mr President!]] Thank you.
u2018-12-11-235	Mr. President, thank you very much. We have made it clear that this bill provides an opportunity [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: You were never here!]] it is not an obligation, it gives workers adequate protection both in person and through their representation. This law obliges temporary workers to pay full minimum wage or minimum wage for skilled workers. This law is a step forward for a narrow group of working time workers, because it adds one step to their mandatory day off. And this law allows workers to make use of the possibility of changing shifts. That wasn't before. Finally, dear opposition representatives! I have been a member of Parliament since 90, and at the moment I am the Member who has been elected most often in the single mandate constituency. I always listen with great attention to the significant oeuvre, significant intellectual achievement and human dignity that we have heard from Bence of Tordai. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: He was also elected. Oh, no.]] And obviously it points behind me that people, this is my life's work, I'm rightfully impertinent, contradicting all sorts of rules, and I'm testifying to such stupidity because it's my chance. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I think it's the last sentence, Mr. President. The opposition is on the right track to receive only one third again in an overall parliamentary election. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches. Zsolt Gréczy: Return the public media! László Böröcz: Was it yours?]] Congratulations on making this your greatest success. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-11-236	Ladies and gentlemen, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. But in order to be dignified, we are going to take a minute of a technical break, so that all my fellow Members, who are going to take a breath and leave the Chamber, can leave quickly. [[It's a short break.]] Thank you very much. Did you apply for a post-meeting speech from the Jobbik Group? The professional foster parents are not part of the play called the Year of Families? Mr Zoltán Magyar. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-12-11-237	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! A dear friend of mine recently wrote me a message on the most popular social networking site, about which I immediately had thoughts that it was worth sharing with you here in the walls of the House, hoping that the problem of these concerned professional foster parents might be resolved in the near future. Allow me to read this letter verbatim, "Hi, Zoli." I'd like to come to you with a request. Although I think it is just as timely to deal with our situation as Fidesz promotes foster care from autumn to millions, and it is the year of families, too. I'm a professional foster parent. I'm currently raising three small children, two three-year-olds and a two-year-old. It's an employment relationship, it took a OKJ course, so it's like a professional worker certificate. However, our salary is 120 percent of the old-age pension, which is HUF 41 400 gross. And we get 20 600 forints per child for this. The amount of supplies is HUF 49 000 per child. My first problem is more precisely the problem of all foster parents: the family allowance is HUF 44 400 for three foster children. Why are they entitled to less than their own children? After all, they usually have special needs, which involve extra expenses, as well as the same needs as any other child in the world. Let's leave our house alone. No one's paying for the amortization. There's always strange people coming to check it out. We don't have freedom because the replacement didn't solve it. Although they will pay for it: I had six days last year, for which I received HUF 5365 in total. And I can't even take a second job because there's no idle, 0-24 calling. If you calculate, a child's daily supply is around HUF 2200. This is what you have to eat, drink, live, see a doctor and develop, clothe and buy all the necessary equipment. For example, beds, toys or a new washing machine, because it is also ruined. Holidays are usually just dreams. They always ask why you do it. Because there's no one to help them, that's why. The babies' homes are crowded and I've seen it myself, and there's not enough people to form the bond, to have enough attention and to be loved. My other big favorite, when they say you did it, do it, or give it back. Well, that's not how it works either. 'Cause they're not a bad TV for me to turn them in. And, yes, you can only do it with heart and soul. I love it. I feel lucky to be a part of their lives. Don't get me wrong, but they're making us impossible. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This was the letter I thought it would be best if I read it word for word that you could hear these thoughts. And I think it's fair to say, after that, that the foundations need to be fixed in this area, and then the construction can be continued. And the foundation is the social, professional and material recognition of foster parents. Currently, more than 15,000 children are placed in Hungary at 5200 foster parents; since 2014, all children under the age of 12 have to be placed in foster care. However, this is not happening, because while the number of children in child protection is gradually increasing, the number of foster parents is not. [[14.50]] There is no question, therefore, that the operation of the foster family network, an important area of the child protection system, has just been put at risk. So the solution to this situation must, as I have already said, start with the basics and improve the financial value of professionals. Without doing so, it is unnecessary to launch campaigns. I hope that with these few thoughts I have contributed to helping them as quickly and as efficiently as possible, because it is clear that there are also many children's futures here. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-12-11-238	Thank you very much, Congressman. A chance to learn! Mr Gergely Farkas has also applied for a speech on the agenda titled Jobbik. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-12-11-239	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, [[Your microphone isn't working properly.]]
u2018-12-11-240	Give me a portable microphone for the congressman. [[They're putting a hand mike in front of the congressman.]]
u2018-12-11-241	Thank you very much. Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Jobbik Youth Department has launched a national campaign and also a collection of signatures - a chance for further education! The aim of which is to avoid the entry into force from 2020 of the legislation on access to higher education institutions, universities and colleges by means of a secondary language examination. It should be stated right from the beginning that Jobbik has always been in favour of language learning, we have a detailed programme of how to improve language learning and, for example, thanks to us, Jobbik suggested that the first language exam now became free for young people. We are basically in favour of language learning, so this is not what our proposal is about. In fact, we agree with the long-term goal of having such an input requirement in higher education institutions. Our problem is that we feel that the 2020 date is too early. Why do we feel it's too soon? Because we believe it is right that, if a government impose such strict requirements, it first reforms the criteria, the criteria that help to that requirement, and that in our public education system, language education would be very much needed for reform, because many studies, professional organisations and even teachers themselves support that in the public education system, our language education cannot prepare students for language examination, and so, if you cannot prepare them, many people will be excluded from higher education institutions. This is also a problem because those whose family situation, their financial situation allows them to attend special classes, language courses, they can access it, so they can reach the level of the language exam, they can take a language exam, and the door will be open to them in higher education institutions. But for students from poorer families who cannot afford to pay thousands of forints for extra hours or sign up for a tens of thousands of forints course, they will not reach the level of language skills to be able to take language exams, thus closing the gates of higher education institutions. Therefore, this introduction in 2020 would mean a material discrimination in higher education. This is serious not only from this point of view, but also from the point of view of the fact that we have experienced a very serious decline in the number of higher education students in the last ten years: in the last ten years, the number of people participating in higher education has decreased from 4.2 per cent of Hungarian society to 2.9 per cent. There are therefore tens of thousands of reductions in the number of higher education students, there is a silent reduction in higher education, and if this regulation were to enter into force from 2020, it would certainly speed up this process, and Hungary's aim should be to have as many educated, competitive young people as possible, people who can obtain a degree based on their diligence and knowledge, not depending on the financial situation of the family. Moreover, not only does Jobbik have serious criticism of the introduction in 2020, but it should be added that all opposition parties agree with this, they also find the introduction in 2020 problematic, but they do not think that this is a party policy issue, so I would also like to quote a non-party person. In particular, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights said, and I quote: "The Commissioner for Fundamental Rights has examined that a new stricter requirement for language skills has been imposed with concern from the point of view of fundamental rights and without sufficient preparation as one of the conditions for entering higher education. László Székely ombudsman proposed that the Minister of Human Resources improve the infrastructure for current foreign language education in schools and that the date of the introduction of the increased requirement be extended in order to guarantee the preparation time. László Székely explains in detail why this is important. I think that he has examined this issue from the point of view of political bias and professionalism, and has come to the same conclusion that we have. In order to change this and to put pressure on the government to postpone the introduction, we will start a national, partially enlightening campaign, and partly by collecting signatures we would like to express this pressure. We would like to launch a campaign on Facebook, and we are waiting for the help of our local members, activists and those who agree with this goal to collect signatures. I am very pleased that yesterday the leader of a youth organisation of a opposition party has already asked me to help them, and others are expected to help. We hope that, as a result of this pressure, we will be able to achieve a goal, and from 2020, this condition will not be introduced, but will be introduced only in later years, so that we will not discriminate against young people on a financial basis, thereby taking away the opportunity to obtain a degree from tens of thousands of young people. Thank you so much for listening. [[György Szilágyi: That's right! Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-12-11-242	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László György Lukács from the Jobbik Group has also applied for an additional post- Agenda address, which has not been mentioned in House T today. Here you go, Congressman. [[While carrying hand microphones to Dr. László György Lukács:]] I think his proper microphone will work, because it worked, after all, for the congressman. [[Dr. László György Lukács: So do I.]] Here you go, Congressman. [[15.00]]
u2018-12-11-243	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Well, not only today, but yesterday there wasn't enough talk in this House that should have been said, these were, among other things, questions and I am thinking of health, because health is in a crisis situation in which I think, in addition to the situation of workers, one of the most decisive issues in Hungary today, so in relation to health, many issues have not been addressed that should be answered. I would like to point out, or talk about, what the government's plans for health are, his statement about it, and yet his attitude towards it. I will give you a very simple example of how health promises work in Hungary today: the government said and announced at the end of the month, on 29 November, that the government will settle the debts of hospitals, and will devote some HUF 55 billion to this, and Miklós Kásler announced for eight days that the government will not pay the debts of hospitals, and he added that he will only settle their debts if he even settles them if they comply with specific management rules. Today, it has also turned out that these specific management rules will be that the hospital's managers will receive significantly less salary. I don't want to go through anyone's pockets, but the low salary of the hospital managers may result in what is a common phenomenon in health care, that, spiced up by suppliers or in different ways, everything that is public money will become its own money and that should be used to provide the public. There is a huge corruption threat in the management of these institutions, a million, if they have a non-billion-dollar cash flow, which is why here, even if I am not honoured by protecting their role, they can cause very serious damage to the care system. The other, otherwise contradicting government communication, everyone heard the news, the government announced almost as good news that health professionals would receive a 72 percent increase in the next four years. Well, back off, ladies and gentlemen, Viktor Orbán at Kossuth Radio announced immediately, a few days later on the early Friday morning show, that he was still thinking about this, and the state of the economy will determine that he will receive it at all. It is also clear that according to the original plan, the schedule for the 72 percent increase was limited to a few percent increase over the next few years, and that as we approach the elections, they will receive more. By the way, how much bluff and political bluff both of the government's statements could be, it shows that we have already negotiated the budget for the next year, in which there is no trace of these items, so we don't know what the government is going to come up with. Of course, we know there's some pocket money here and there, at the Ministry of Antal Rogán or even in other chapters of the Prime Minister's Office, but overall, it's not guaranteed. All of this shows that health care continues to be managed by the government as it has done in the last eight years: to allow all the supply problems to accumulate from crisis to crisis. Now we are not just saying that emergency facilities are not functioning properly, we are now talking about the fact that classes supplying premature babies can't function properly, there are huge disruptions in the narrowest supply segments. We can talk about the case of the Honvéd Hospital, but we can talk about the lip case, the palette is very wide, unfortunately, about the mistakes that there are. And what can be done about it? What could be done, ladies and gentlemen, is to listen to the words of time and to listen to what has to be done. Because of technological progress in health care, the ageing society is making a huge cry for help: more money must be put into the system! So the message of this cry for help is that the system needs more money. The government ignores this in design and budget planning in a very bad way, never planning it as much as it should, so the direct consequence of this lack of money is the increase in waiting lists, the deterioration of the working conditions of doctors and workers and workers, the lack of means in some hospitals, the need to close hospital departments or reorganize care so that patients who need to travel many miles, up to 70 to 80 kilometres. Ladies and gentlemen, It is clear that what we have not been able to talk about in recent days is perhaps the second most serious problem in the country, in addition to the slave law on workers, and this is the state of health. We should discuss this more often, and that is what Viktor Orbán should answer more often, and these issues should be resolved jointly, not only by Parliament but also by the government, and we should finally take seriously that health care is waiting for salvation. Thank you very much. [[György Szilágyi: That's right! Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-12-11-244	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, With this speech, we have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I thank you all for your work. The Parliament will resume its work at 10:15 tomorrow with decisions. I'm closing the meeting, and I wish you all a good evening, and then a restful night with tomorrow's recharge.
