u2018-05-11-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] I would like to welcome my fellow Members. The third day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and György Szilágyi, notaries, will be in charge of the meeting. I also welcome our dear guests and all those who are monitoring our work today. On the basis of the factions' agreement, speeches before and after the agenda, interpellations, immediate questions and questions will not take place today either. Dear Parliament, A joint debate on the list of the ministries of Hungary and the amendment of certain related laws follows. The presentation submitted by our colleagues from Fideszes Orbán, Zsolt Semjén KDNP, Antal Rogán fideszes, Gergely Gulyás fideszes, Máté Kocsis fideszes T/14. can be accessed by all of them on the Parliament's IT network. T/14/3. T/14/4. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to announce that the Legislative Committee has tabled, at the same time as the summary amendment proposal, a proposal for an amendment extending beyond it. Today's debate also covers its content and the need for it. I would like to inform you that according to the departure from the adopted house rule, the opening speech and the closing clause will take a total of 20 minutes, 6 minutes for the legislative committee to speak, of which 3 minutes for the presentation of the minority opinion is available. A total of 10-10 minutes is the time frame for the political groups to speak. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Congressman Gulyás Gergely, the rapporteur on the agenda. As I said, you have a total time frame of 20 minutes, Congressman, and what you do not use in the presentation, you can use in closing. There's no problem with that, I guess. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-05-11-1	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The bill before us is about listing the ministries of Hungary and amending certain related laws. There is a long tradition in this House that, prior to the establishment of the new government, Parliament will adopt a law on the structure and structure of the new government, although it would otherwise be possible to open a legitimate debate on whether it would not be better for the government to exercise its own freedom of organisation in the government decree, but the political culture has not deteriorated in this regard in the recent period. I would therefore like to thank the opposition, as in previous 28 years' practice, for allowing us to adopt this legislation as soon as possible, so that the government can be formed as soon as possible. The changes we are now seeing will mark the next year's tasks. During the April 2018 elections, Hungarian voters made a clear and clear decision, so the government's goals remain unchanged: we want to preserve Christian culture, protect the country, create full employment and support families raising children. For these main and general objectives, the structure with which the least-ministerial government of the European Union will be created will be based on a total of 10 ministries in Hungary. These are: the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Human Resources, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister's Office and the Ministry of Finance. The list also shows that the former structure is essentially preserved, but there are also minor changes. The most important, to say the most relevant, amendment is that, with the establishment of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, the government is trying to organise all the tasks that are modern, XXI. It is necessary for the implementation of the Christian Democratic policy of the century. Innovation and technology, i.e. development, industry goes to a single wallet. We believe that, together with the person of the designated minister, this structure will be able to meet the developments, innovations and technological innovations of the coming decades in Hungary. We also maintain that it is worth working with as few ministries as possible. There's been a lot of criticism from the Ministry of Human Resources. From the practice of recent years, we see that it is not a problem at all if all areas dealing with human resources appear within a wallet, and we believe that in the coming years we will pay particular attention to health developments, especially in the capital area, and we will strive to achieve the best possible quality of education in Hungary, even if there are changes to the structure of supervision and management of higher education. We have also talked many times about the fact that successful Hungary is not possible without successful agriculture. We see that competition in the European Union has led to major challenges for Hungarian farmers as well. First of all, we are pleased that we managed to adopt a land law in the summer of 2013 - in the midst of unworthy scenes - which still held the Hungarian land in Hungarian ownership, and we are pleased that Hungarian farmers have also taken part in EU land-based subsidies in recent years. We see that the next 7-year EU budget in this area is the biggest threat, so the draft budget would, to the greatest extent possible, cut back on agricultural subsidies. Our aim is to be able to resist allies in this, and the subsidies that have been paid to Hungarian farmers who have been farming the land will continue to arrive on the part of the European Union. We have also talked many times about how security is a prerequisite for everything. That is what we said already in 2010 and at that time we did not even anticipate the migration challenge that basically undermined European security and the sense of security for European citizens in Western countries. We are proud that we have managed to protect the border in recent years, maintain order, and in the future the Hungarian Government and the Hungarian Ministry of Interior will continue to work with the police and the soldiers to keep the country safe. The key task of the Ministry of Defence is that we are facing a development of forces that is unprecedented in the Hungarian military history after the regime change, as we have undertaken to increase defence spending to 2 percent of GDP as a result of NATO membership. This means that the expenditure on defence will increase by 0.1 percent each year within the already significantly expanding Hungarian GDP, so that the budget of the following years will give rise to significant improvements in the force. [[9.10]] The Ministry of Justice remains responsible for the quality of legislation. It is also a very important competence for the judiciary to represent the state in EU litigation cases; and we hope that it will continue to provide the professional assistance that is essential for codification to all the courts. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade will remain unchanged, with the extension of powers that the Information Office will be under the control of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs from the Prime Minister's Office; I would say it will be returned, as I believe that this was the right situation until 2012. We believe that the policy of recent years has justified the decision to treat the foreign economy and foreign affairs as one unit. Therefore, there is no change in the substance of the powers. The Prime Minister's Cabinet and the Prime Minister's Office play an important role in the governance of the government, assists the Prime Minister's work, and the Prime Minister's Office also includes management of both the entire territorial administration and the European Union's affairs. The Ministry of Finance then operates in a traditional Finance Ministry structure with the establishment of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology. It is important that Hungarian economic policy remains predictable and balanced. One and a half years after the bankruptcy of the state, we took over government in 2010, and today Hungary has one of Europe's most stable economies, the budget is balanced, the foundations of economic growth are stable, its reserves are secure, and we see that every year this leads to significant economic expansion and wage increases. I would like to draw everyone's attention to the fact that last year, according to the statistics of the HCSO, there has been a 13,8% increase in wages in the country. Since there was no such increase in wages in the central government, this shows that the average can only come out if there has been a wage increase far beyond that in the market sector. We want this to continue. We are proud that we have managed to increase the minimum wage by 88 percent in the last eight years and the guaranteed minimum wage by more than 100 percent. In addition to a balanced spending, responsible fiscal policy, we would like to maintain an increase in the minimum wage and an increase in the guaranteed minimum wage. Through this, we hope that the overall wage increase will also be maintained. If we look at these as a whole, I believe that the structure of the government in any way should not prevent the successful governance of the next four years. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-05-11-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'd like to inform you that you have 11 minutes and 30 seconds left to say the closing word. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented. The committee indicated that no minority opinion was expressed at the committee meeting. Therefore, I now give the floor to Mónika Dunai, rapporteur of the committee, in a six-minute time frame. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2018-05-11-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In the previous 8 years, the civil government has clearly identified the most important priorities for our society, on which Hungarian voters made a clear supportive decision on 8 April. It is our duty to maintain our Christian culture, to protect the borders of our country, to achieve full employment and to encourage children's participation among Hungarian families. These objectives can only be achieved through a strong governance structure that responds quickly and professionally to current challenges. I believe that the bill before us is capable of creating a strong government base for the tasks it aims to achieve. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee is the House Rule 65. According to Article 4 of the Act, the provisions of the Decree-Law adopted by the Parliament have been applied by T/14. Detailed discussion of bill No. 1. The committee, examining the bill, found that it complied with house rules 44. Paragraph 1 of this Article. No amendments were tabled to the bill. The Committee made its own amendment, which contained one substantive and three codification, linguistic and legal amendments. According to the substantive amendment, it is possible for appointed state managers in professional service to cease their professional service for the duration of their appointment. The Committee adopted the amendment containing its amendments and the summary report by 20 votes to three, with three abstentions. In view of the fact that the Committee has made a proposal for an amendment extending beyond number 4, it has therefore adopted it by a separate vote and has submitted it separately from the summarised amendment proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, Please support the bill before us so that the new government of Hungary can start working as soon as possible to achieve the common goals that we wish to achieve. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-05-11-4	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, The speeches will now take place in a 10-10-minute time frame, in line with the written login and the strong order. Member Csaba Hende, vice-president of the Parliament, has checked in from the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Mr. Vice President. You have the floor.
u2018-05-11-5	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Fundamental Law of our country states that the list of ministries is provided for by law, and accordingly the T/14 before us. The list of Ministries and the substantive rules requiring the level of law necessary for its implementation are included in the submission. The tasks and powers of the members of the Government are set out in the 2010 XLIII. In accordance with the law, the Government's regulation of its original legislative powers, which will enter into force one day after the entry into force of this Act, will regulate it. The proposal lists the ministries of Hungary; this has already been presented by my fellow Member Gergely Gulyás, and I will not repeat it. However, I would add that there were also 10 ministries in the previous government cycle, so there is no change in the number of wallets, but obviously the governance structure is not exactly the same as before, which I would like to briefly mention. Ladies and gentlemen, One of the main elements of the bill's content is that the Prime Minister will manage the government's activities in the future. In this context, the special ministerial responsibility for coordinating government activities will be removed, and the tasks in this area will continue to be shared between the bodies of the Government Centre for the Anglo-Saxon sample. This means that, under the direct direction of Viktor Orbán, there is a government centre within the framework of the government, including the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister's Office and the Government Office of the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister's Government Office is the government administration working organisation of the Prime Minister, which is enshrined in the proposal as a central administrative body with special powers. The Prime Minister's Government Office is managed by an Administrative State Secretary under the direct direction of the Prime Minister, in accordance with the laws and professional requirements, and can also be operated by State Secretary and Deputy State Secretary. The new administrative unit will therefore monitor the preparation and implementation of the government's decisions. Dear Parliament, As a further element of the proposal, it is noteworthy that issues of national security, innovation and innovation will have a prominent role to play in the governance structure. The government's responsibility for the management of state wealth and development is split, and the Ministry of Innovation and Technology is established. Financial stability and reliability are of great importance in economic life. This aspect is represented in the government structure by the Ministry of Finance for Finance and Budget Planning for economic growth and full employment. [[9.20]] The motion also states that the detailed tasks and powers of ministers without a wallet will be laid down by a government decree, and that their activities will be assisted by the Ministry or the Prime Minister's Government Office. Dear Parliament, The author has already referred to the constitutional practice of adopting similar laws on the part of the opposition. I would like to thank the opposition representatives from this place for their contribution to the negotiation of a derogation from house rules and for not submitting an amendment. We have heard that yesterday at the Legislative Committee, according to the intention of the pro-government representatives, technical and formal amendments were adopted in substance. Dear Parliament, The aim of the whole bill is very clearly mentioned in the few sentences which are at the beginning of the general statement of reasons and which are fully in line with the Prime Minister's speech yesterday after his election, inspiring and uniting a nation across borders. That is what the explanatory statement is, therefore. On 8 April 2018, the citizens of Hungary clearly designated the goals of governance. We must preserve Christian culture, protect the country, create full employment and support families raising children. Instead of aid, work, family-oriented politics, Hungarian interests above all. Hungary is one of the safest countries in Europe today, and we are trying to keep it that way. We protect our borders, the fence will stand, if necessary, strengthen, expand. At the same time, we are working to increase the security of everyday life. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, The moments of Hungary are expensive. I therefore propose that we debate briefly and effectively and give the government, the Prime Minister, the authority to get on with its country building tasks as soon as possible. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-05-11-6	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, István Hiller, Vice-President of the Parliament, has applied for a speech from the MSZP Group. You have the floor, Mr. Vice President.
u2018-05-11-7	Mr. President. Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! Dear House, I express my opinion on behalf of the MSZP faction, and I would like to focus primarily on the social policy message of the governance structure. First of all, I would like to say - I can say this out of President Hende's opinion - that according to the constitutional arrangements in Hungary, the Prime Minister has a government and not a government prime minister, and therefore has the right and the opportunity to shape the governance structure as he wishes. The opposition has the right to express its views on this, to draw attention to shortcomings now, with some experience, and to express its views on it, where it sees it looking forward to certain amendments. The Ministry, which is the collection site of the most important areas of social policy, the Ministry of Human Resources, has proved in recent years that, in the structure of the government, it is foreign to Hungarian traditions, in its effectiveness, that it raises the question whether the existence of the Ministry itself is a solution or a problem, or what it is worth looking forward to with the current changes. In the context of the current bill, I have not changed my view of what I said on several occasions in the previous debate on ministerial reports and on the structure of the government. I do not think that the EMMI is able to express well the interests of the people, the Hungarians who belong to the areas they work in which they are otherwise meant to represent. I think the EMMI is the problem, not the solution. In its existence, it provides more inefficiencies than results. I cannot see in any way why such vast areas as education, health, culture or the management of sport within a ministry would have any hope of achieving even the goals set - which you, honourable government representatives, have set before you and the country - a better chance of achieving than that which, for example, in the field of education, since the existence of independent Hungarian teaching administration, since József Eötvös, all governments of all systems have held. I find it particularly ignominious that Hungarian education, that Hungarian health care alone does not have a one-man minister responsible in the government. I don't think it's going beyond tradition, but it doesn't show any results. Please note that among the areas mentioned above, for example, in education, the inefficiencies that were adopted in 2011 could be seen at a time when it was wrong and wrong in its direction, by law, by law, which was named after public education and higher education - by the way, it does not serve the whole other thing: it serves your policy of power and not the interests of public education and higher education - that there is a direct link between the results that will be shown there and the governance structure. Then, for example, after the most significant international and everyone-accepted survey, PISA showed that after the 2010 change of government, they achieved worse results than the period of the change of government, and the result of a later survey showed that they had achieved even worse results than their own results, and that there was a straight-line decline in Hungarian, and that this should be linked not only with the existence of measures, the internal rule, but also with the existence of the EMMI as an inadequate government structure unit. Compared to this, it is in fact unchanged in this bill. I say to you - and in another example I would like to show in particular - that this does not represent a professional, administrative interest. The governance technique that you, Prime Minister and you, future ministers and ministers of state, represent may be so, but it is not in the interests of the country, and I am quite certain of that. If I've just mentioned the issue of education, let me take a look at the culture. The situation is even more criminal, because, for example, the Hungarian cinema and film industry belongs to the Ministry of Economy, the important issue of foreign Hungarian cultural institutions belongs to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, archeology and historic protection and the Prime Minister's Office, but you have within the EMMI a secretary of state for culture, which is all that remains, in itself, an important and decisive public and national cultural institutions or national cultural institutions, but so fragmented the Hungarian cultural policy or cultural policy has never been, and I am sure that this is one of the keys and proofs of existing problems and inefficiencies. [[9.30]] So what I want to say to you is that the government structure that has tabled a bill and which reflects this concept is a policy of power and not a rational, administrative professional aspect. From a professional point of view, they will not be able to prove to me that the tradition that Hungarian governments have done since Eötvös, for example, in education, is that there is an education minister in the country, and you have a great monster, a torso, a truly political monster, in this unfortunate EMMI, in areas that affect the interests of millions, and that affect the fate of all Hungarian people from health care to education. I also claim that their proven failure in this area, as demonstrated by domestic and international surveys and by hundreds of thousands of Hungarian teachers and parents, is directly related to the government structure solution that you are applying. At the same time, in this bill, I look with interest and anticipation at the work of the Ministry of Innovation and Science, responsible for relations with the scientific world. I don't know what it's gonna be like yet, but I see the point in dealing with innovation and science at ministerial level and at ministerial level. However, I must ask the question: please tell me what logically explains why science has a minister and education does not. Tell me what is the rational solution in having a ministerial representation of innovation and a Minister of Health out of the country. What is the structural solution that you think is good for EMMI, but otherwise science and innovation - I think it is quite right - will be taken out of this horror and provided a separate ministerial level? Because if they were consistent with themselves, they wouldn't do so, but they see that the solution would be education and culture, social and health issues, as they do now in the field of science and innovation, in order to answer for them, as trade unions and professional organisations have wanted and wish. But for you, neither the profession, professionalism, nor professional organisations, so that I do not pronounce the word civil on your behalf, it is of no interest, which is why you are putting forward such a law, which, although I say it once again, is the Prime Minister's right, but I do not think it is in the best interests of the country professionally. Thank you very much for your patience.
u2018-05-11-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Member Imre Vejkey of the KDNP Group has applied for a speech. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-05-11-9	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, thanks to the pro-government and opposition representatives who took part in yesterday afternoon's vote. By voting for a derogation from the house rules, Parliament's plenary session was able to discuss this morning the list of the ministries of Hungary and the amendment of certain related laws T/14. Bill No. 1 which, following the parliamentary elections in 2018, creates the legal preconditions for the establishment of the fourth Orbán government. Under Article 17 (1) of the Fundamental Law, the bill contains a list of ministries to prepare for the establishment of a new government, as well as substantive rules requiring the required level of law for implementation. The tasks and powers of the members of the Government are set out in the 2010 XLIII. It shall be governed by a Government Decree which shall enter into force one day after the entry into force of this Act in accordance with the law. On the basis of the bill, Hungary will continue to have ten ministries: Agricultural Ministry, Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Human Resources, Ministry of Defence, Justice, Innovation and Technology, Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, Cabinet Office of Prime Minister, Prime Minister's Office and Ministry of Finance. Ladies and Gentlemen, On 8 April 2018, the citizens of Hungary clearly defined the objectives of governance. The goals of the national Christian government have not changed compared to the two cycles of 2010-2018. The government's main goal is to do everything in its power to preserve our Christian culture. In order to achieve this goal, it is necessary to protect our country, to create full employment, to support families with a family-oriented policy, to give work to our fellow citizens instead of aid, and to represent the Hungarian interests, ladies and gentlemen, and the Hungarian interests above all. In eight years of national Christian government, we have reached the point that Hungary is today one of the safest countries in Europe, and we are trying to keep it that way. We protect our borders, the fence will stand, if necessary, strengthen, expand. At the same time, we are working to further strengthen the security of everyday life. A strong government, political and legal stability is therefore needed to achieve these goals. The government is managed by the Prime Minister, which will remove the special ministerial responsibility for coordinating government activities, which will continue to be allocated to the central bodies of the resulting government. Under the leadership of the Prime Minister, there is a government centre within the framework of the government, including the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office, the Prime Minister's Office and the Prime Minister's Government Office. The Prime Minister's Cabinet Office acts as a political working organisation of the Prime Minister and the resulting Prime Minister's Government Office acts as a government administrative working organisation. Ladies and Gentlemen, According to the voters' wishes, Hungary's new government, the fourth Orbán government, must be established as soon as possible. We need an effective and fast-acting government, because the world will be subject to changes that affect all of our lives in a matter of minutes. There are such challenges both in the area of security and in economic life, so national security issues and innovation are given priority in the governance structure. The government's responsibility for managing and developing state assets will be split up, and the Ministry of Innovation and Technology will be established. At the same time, financial stability and reliability are of great importance in economic life. This aspect will be addressed in the government structure by the Ministry of Finance for Financial Policy and Budget Planning. Ladies and Gentlemen, In this cycle, we will also have very important international tasks, which aim to make the West recognise our Christian roots and be prepared to stand up for these values. This will be represented primarily by the Prime Minister's Office and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. At present, these Christian values seem to be forgotten in the West, although everything we consider to be a man of Western culture, such as democracy, freedoms, human dignity, but also scientific results, can be derived from the Jewish-Christian heritage. It's the West's own. And since the West refuses its Christian roots, these basic values in the West are empty year after year, month after month, hour after hour, and there is nothing left but a black hole that absorbs all values, with the promise of unlimited freedom, lack of abstinence and control, and ultimately social chaos itself. The founding fathers of the Union, Schuman, Adenauer, De Gasperi, told us half a century ago that Europe would or will not be a Christian. Unfortunately, Europe is rushing towards its destiny, but we Hungarians are trying to stop it in this too. We are doing everything we can to stop this open attack on indigenous European peoples and nations, as well as the Christian civilization that is the roots of Europe. With this stand, we protect sovereign Hungary and its inhabitants, as well as the federal Europe. [[9.40]] Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, the KDNP parliamentary faction supports T/14 on the list of ministries in Hungary and on the amendment of certain related laws. Bill No. 1. Please, support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-05-11-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Two of the DK Group have applied for a speech. I now address Congressman Gergely Arató. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-05-11-11	Mr President, Dear House, In itself, this agenda is usually, in a normally functioning democracy, a technical, irrelevant agenda: a new government comes along, develops its working structure, hoistes a little bit, puts a secretary of state here, takes it from there. This would normally be the case, of course, if this type of proposal were preceded by appropriate preparatory work, analysis and reflection if it were intended to ensure the effectiveness of government work in some way. Unfortunately, however, this has now been cancelled. I believe that, in addition to the fact that our honourable fellow Members, who were in favour of the proposal, were able to say very little about the real reason for the proposal and the considerations behind it, apart from the production report based on the selective use of the facts, it is also evidence that this was a bill drawn up and submitted insufficiently, that the majority of the Legislative Committee's ruling party immediately had four amendments, which affected the bill on several points, had to be corrected for the errors made by the legislators. But that alone wouldn't be such a big problem. It is also quite obvious that you have spoken of this in a somewhat more subtle way, that this bill is mostly about the omnipotence and understanding of the Prime Minister: the Prime Minister can take any task away from the wallets, anywhere he can interfere with the government system, and there is now not only a minister around two persons, but also a third-party minister to him, enforcing the confidence basis of the control and Stalini principle. But that's your problem. That's your problem. However, the country's problem is that they are not able to draw the lessons from the most basic mistakes, the dysfunctions of operation. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Two thirds profit?]] They are happy to refer to national traditions, while ignoring the tradition of high quality Hungarian education management, the series of visionary education ministers, Eötvösök, Trefortok and Klebelsbergs. You do not need well-functioning education, and you do not need a minister of education who is able to represent the interests of the sector, who is able to take part in professional debates, who is able to represent the employees of this sector, who is able to enforce professional logic in your government. The EMMI is very good, this big happy salad, which is best suited not to solve problems in the fields of education, health or social policy or even culture, but rather to cover up problems; it is only good that these problems do not come to light within the government. But there is no wrong solution that you cannot diligently make worse, because while highlighting the innovation area is perhaps the only significant positive part of this governance structure, while creating a governance system where two ministers will be running the system from now on in the field of higher education. This pretty much guarantees that there will be perfect confusion. A rule is introduced where the Minister for Innovation is involved in making a series of decisions. This is a kind of legal, governmental solution that makes it almost certain, encodes the constant conflicts, and also encodes the fact that now not only one minister will drag higher education institutions, but also two. Vocational training worth a better fate will also be taken away from the economy after it has been removed from education. Let us add that this bill has the character of such a wonderful salad law once again, and it also has other matters in it, of which it is perhaps worth mentioning the rule that makes vocational training a state monopoly in some areas, and makes it impossible for foundations and private institutions to operate, making it a state priority for institutions to operate in many areas of vocational training. Finally, let me also remember my personal favourite, the Legislative Committee's proposal that police officers, soldiers, with their official duties suspended, may carry out any post of administration, and now participate not only in the administration of the police or the army. I am excited to see if they have spare generals to repair education or health care. I wouldn't be surprised at anything now, although Congressman Gulyás assured us that the government was not preparing for a military coup. If we can believe him, it's good news anyway. Finally, I would like to say that we do not consider this proposal acceptable and eligible either in its entirety or with amendments, and therefore the Democratic Coalition will vote against this proposal. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause for DK and Dialogue.]]
u2018-05-11-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Two from the Dialogue Group have also applied for a speech. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Bősz Anett. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-05-11-13	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, It would be good if, in today's debate, we didn't have to talk about anything else besides the government structure. According to the traditions of liberals, the establishment of a government structure is the competence of the current government, which we accept as opposition, but today it is our duty to speak out and speak out against the approach in which the Orbán government has led this country and organised its own work for two cycles. The structure of the government has changed somewhat, but the guiding principle remains the same: everything is concentrated in the hands of the Prime Minister, the ministries are merely executives. The Hungarian governance structure and operation are too central, but the problem is that the XXI. Finding answers to the challenges of the century. Looks like it'll stay the same for the next four years. It can be seen from social processes and from the new government structure that this government is practically engaged in the installation of a country-wide Skansen. While our fellow Europeans understood the obligation to adapt to the new world order, they developed a governance structure and social organisational guidelines accordingly, Hungary also withdrew in the development of society and in the construction of the state organization. Globalisation processes require successful self-management regions, and therefore a ministry responsible for European affairs and regionalisation is needed in an EU Member State. Addressing climate change and natural challenges requires an independent Ministry of Environment. In 2018, addressing the external economy of a small open economy separately from national economic processes is a particularly fatal mistake. Adapting to international trends is an essential element of Hungary; it can be seen from the structure of the government that the purpose of the Cabinet is contrary. It is welcome that the Ministry of Innovation and Technology has been established, but the quality education system is an essential element of the fourth industrial revolution, in which future generations learn not only to use technology but also to use their own heads. This also requires an independent Ministry of Education and the idea of freedom. The new world order is also about global partnership. The needy millions who live in this country today are not equal to those of the most fortunate half of society, either in their dignity or in their rights or in their chances. Their rise is not merely a moral obligation, but it is also in Hungary's overall social and economic interest. My final thought is, therefore, that in such a social crisis, a ministry must be established for equal opportunities. Due to the lack of the above, the Hungarian Liberal Party cannot accept the government structure. Thank you for listening.
u2018-05-11-14	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The next speaker of the DK Group is Mr Imre László. Congressman, you have the floor. Here you go. [[9.50]]
u2018-05-11-15	Mr. President. Dear House, We often hear the facts are stubborn. Indeed, we know that this is true, because it is appropriate to examine things and events in the light of the facts, and, as I am a doctor at the present time, it is appropriate to give an opinion on what is happening in connection with the Ministry of Human Resources, specifically on the health aspect. Unfortunately, the government has not been given much thought to the fact that in recent years there has been a demonstrable decline in the level of public health care. There is no longer any part of the supply system that does not deal with fundamental and security of supply problems. Due to the number of problems and the social depreciation of the career, the general medical care system - one of the most important parts of health care - is falling apart, and the National Rescue Service, which plays a key role in the safety of human life, is also having serious problems. The entire supply system is combined with a serious shortage of staff, which increases the risk of security of supply as a result of the congestion of existing ones. It is unacceptable for international organisations such as WHO, OECD or Eurostat to simply transcend their opinions and signals, to be classified as false or false, and to be ignored. 'Cause let's not be wrong. We are still at the forefront of the world as regards cancers, deaths caused by preventable or incurable diseases, or even suicides. Every year, a professional organization in Stockholm examines and evaluates 35 countries in Europe in six professional areas using 36 indicators. Hungary was included in this list in 2014, in 25th place, in 2015 we confirmed this with a 27th place, and in 2016 and 17th place we were in 30th place, and we were also able to live by the fact that Albania was already ahead of us on this list in 2017. The supply system is underfunded, with HUF 600-700 billion less per year for healing - not compared to the West! - like the Visegrád Four, for example, Slovakia or the Czech Republic. One year, our healthcare expenditure per capita is less than half of the EU average. Medical institutions have long received less compensation from the state than they actually cost for an intervention. This fact, unfortunately, and in a rather indisputable way, becomes public awareness as a debt of hospitals and not of the state. What do these very stubborn facts say? In the first approach, it is obvious that something is very wrong in this supply area that affects all people without exception. The Ministry of Human Resources is not only able to form, manage and manage a large number of very heterogeneous organizations, not only according to the concrete and stubborn facts so far, but also on the basis of the opinion of Minister Balog. Thus, either the effectiveness of the EMMI's leadership or their lack of interest in government meetings, or both, which is very likely to be a problem. On this basis, the Democratic Coalition, in order to provide more effective care for the people of the country, as you refer to it, is most strongly opposed to the unity of the EMMI and demands the establishment of a self-employed Ministry of Health on a strictly professional basis. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2018-05-11-16	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, As I said, two from the Dialogue Group have applied for a speech. I now give the floor to Congressman Bence of Tordai. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-05-11-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. People, let's see that this bill is about the Fidesz president's fears, mistrust, fear of power, a desire for total control. All that will eventually lead to his fall. The essence of the proposal is to make Viktor Orbán omnipotent. At least in his own government. So that no one other than him may have an independent will, so that no one is irreplaceable, irreplaceable around him. So there wouldn't be autonomous thinkers and doers in the government. Obedience is the only thing left but servitude. Personal and organizational changes show that there was one aspect above all: so that a new János Lazarus could not come, so that no one could try to govern from time to time instead of power engineering. [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] If the Fidesz president were really brave and consistent, he wouldn't be fooling around here with the Prime Minister's Office, the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office, the government center within the government and the other ministries. There is only one ministry in a perfect state in Orbán: the Ministry of Doing the will of Viktor Orbán, where only robots work, because ultimately, the free will of the people cannot be completely suppressed. Unfortunately, the president of the Fidesz isn't here, so I can only text him. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Viktor! It would be interesting to wait for the outcome if it wasn't for us. Because a country is paying the price for... [[Noise.]]
u2018-05-11-18	Congressman! Congressman! [[Intercoms. Laszlo Szászfalvi: You are not in the pub!]] I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you are speaking in the Hungarian Parliament. I'm asking you to comply with the house rules, because if you don't comply, I'm obliged to withdraw from you on your first speech. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-05-11-19	I'll be respectful of someone who deserves it. So, I'd like to continue, if Mr. President would allow me. Dear Fidesz and KDNP. Now I'm going to separate myself from the wheat - so I don't use stronger words - and in the vote it turns out that you're responsible representatives or soulless droids. It turns out that you're assisting... [[Noise.]]
u2018-05-11-20	Congressman! I'd like to say it again... Listen to me, Congressman, because I'm going to take the floor from you. There is no formal address in the Hungarian Parliament. You must keep this to yourself. [[Bence of Turdai: But we're on the phone with everyone!]] Congressman, this is how I give the floor back.
u2018-05-11-21	All right. If it's up to that, we'll be self-serving from now on, it'll be excellent. So in the end, he hits the wall, he knocks hard, then he stops, he only causes enormous damage to Hungary and the Hungarian people. Because, respected Fidesz and KDNPs, there is no voter, either pro-government or opposition, who would be in the interest of not having an independent Ministry of Education in a country where the school system is crushed and a quarter of the children remain functional illiterate. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Where's your faction?]] There is no voter who has an interest in not having an independent Ministry of Health in a country where tens of thousands die early every year because of the state of the health care system. There is no voter who has an interest in not having an independent Ministry of Environment in a country where our lives are three years shorter because of air pollution. Fidesz and KDNP! Three days ago, they were sworn to serve the Hungarian people. They were sworn to serve the Hungarian people and not to serve Viktor Orbán's madness of power. If they feel any responsibility for their voters and the entire Hungarian nation, they will not vote for this bill. Thank you. [[Sándor Font: What then? It's a rare round of applause from the opposition.]]
u2018-05-11-22	Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the speeches by Members who have been registered in advance in writing. The speeches will now take place on the spot, with the click of the button. First of the Jobbik Group, I give the floor to Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi, the leader of the faction. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2018-05-11-23	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Admitting the right of the current Prime Minister to shape the structure and structure of the government practically freely by the Prime Minister, please allow me, for some thought, to share the opinion of the Jobbik Group on this proposal with you. There is certainly no debate between us that the structure of government operation must primarily meet the needs of the government, but it must also be seen that the adequacy of the structure can be assessed on the basis of the performance of the government as a whole. [[10.00]] This fact shows mercilessly why it was really necessary to change the former governance structure. In many respects, the performances of the preventive governments were not forward-looking, but rather pitiful. I am thinking, first and foremost, of the unprecedented emigration, the catastrophic state of education, health care, the waste of agricultural land, the amazing extent of statutory corruption, and of course the line could continue until sunrise. You, at the head of the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office, have been conducting a pseudo-government, operating and operating a communication propaganda machine, rather than at least making the slightest effort to solve the serious problems that affect the present and the future of our country. Although, pending the publication of the Statute Regulation, the names listed in the Act are virtually empty boxes, it is already clear from the outline that there is no reason for optimism. It is clear that your needs remain far from addressing the real problems, rather than starting their superficial demagogic campaign for the upcoming elections, so to speak. They're going back to where they left off in the last cycle. It can be said that they no longer wish to conceal the intention that Fidesz would continue not to govern for the benefit of the country, but rather to rule and direct it. Ladies and gentlemen, Why do we think all this? Central governance in the narrowest sense - or, as the reasons for the draft are, a government centre, in Hungarian a slepp around the Prime Minister's person - now essentially includes three wallets, while neither education, health care nor economic development will receive an independent ministry. This fact is astounding in itself. However, it is also interesting to think about the confidence the Prime Minister has in his newly selected ministers if he establishes a system in which he will at any time go beyond the responsibilities and powers of individual wallets in any matter. Hand controls, which have been criticized many times before, are expected not only to shrink, but to increase to multiple times. This model of operation not only in the heads and staff of individual wallets, but also in society as a whole creates huge uncertainty and unpredictableness. Institutional reinforcements around the Prime Minister clearly indicate that the role of minions and courtiers will continue to be strengthened in top management, not professionalism. At the same time, it is obvious to the laymen that the Prime Minister, by making himself the head of an institution at the Ministry level, the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister, has fallen into chess. What other way to assess this particular step backwards, which would make the Prime Minister, whose normally narrowest apparatus was reported by his ministers, quasi-ministerial? However, this unusual tactical step must clearly also have a benefit that cannot be passed without saying a word. This is the guarantee and guarantee of accountability. In good faith, I say that you have forgotten to lay out the guarantees that the Prime Minister's Government Office, if it is similar to the other wallets in its structure and task, can be interpelled and interpelled. This may arise as a fundamental need in the case of a body capable of carrying out any task and authority. In order to fully meet this need, I have also made use of a bill, which I have tabled today, which I hope you will all be able to support and support. In the unexpected case, if this were not the case, it is right that you not only want to achieve total power concentration, but also want to achieve this by at the same time deprive citizens, the general public, of the fundamental right to information. I note here that we also want to help the Prime Minister to avoid, in the future, the unworthy position of hiding behind the curtain, which is a public task that cannot be postponed to him. I suggest that we do not have to wait for the third hour of immediate questions to be answered; personal answers should also be mandatory in the immediate questions to be answered. I am sure you will understand the importance of this, because in the justification for the draft legislation before us, you are the one who states that an effective and rapid response government is needed, because changes are taking place in the world that affect all of our lives in a matter of minutes. Returning to the specific proposal, we also feel a particularly urgent lack of a Ministry of Social Policy in addition to the inclusion of education, health and economic development as an independent portfolio. Although Prime Minister believes that hundreds of thousands of our countrymen live for adventure in Western Europe, we all know that this is not the case. Stopping emigration would only be possible while ensuring adequate social net and well-being, which would be a fundamental need for all generations and life situations, which could only have been guaranteed by an independent wallet. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill doesn't show any signs of stopping excessive bureaucracy. I would like to remind you that while continuing self-limitation was promised, the number of civil servants and civil servants employed in budgetary institutions would not have decreased, but increased from 772,000 in 2010 to 842,000 in 2017. As a result of the planned government structure, this number will certainly only continue to rise. To sum up, in parallel with the infinite centralisation, we are reading the continuing decline in professionalism, the strong limitation of accountability and transparency, the complete lack of need to solve the problems that have been delayed for years and the future of the whole country, from the governance structure that we have presented, which, in our view, will not serve the growth of the majority society. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-05-11-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, From the LMP Group, Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet applied for a speech. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2018-05-11-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We are here today to debate the governance structure, but before the detailed discussion of the resulting and even more of the missing ministries, it is worth examining the new government at a distance. The structure of the government alone cannot be interpreted. You would need to see the purpose of the system, where the government wants to go, and what it wants to achieve in the next four years. To put it simply, we need a government program. A little more than that, we'll continue, but even protect it. On such small matters, neither Prime Minister Viktor Orbán nor Fidesz is wasting time. Of course, presumably as a precaution, because if there is a government program, if there is a plan, then it can be called to account. Then we could confront the government with its commitments, and if the government were to set targets for itself, it would also have to be governed. But like the previous four years, we probably can't expect that, at least that's what the government structure tells us. Based on the government structure submitted, Fidesz will continue to cover up and not solve the problems. There is no other way to explain why there is no independent Ministry of Education, Health and the Environment, while there is a separate Ministry of Propaganda and we are slowly not able to count how many prime ministers there are. The Ministry of Resources has remained where the government has been collecting areas under the last eight years whose problems it refuses to acknowledge. We're talking about a ministry that even the former minister himself said was inoperable in this form. [[10.10]] But the end result was that the minister went, the Ministry remained, because this ministry's aim was not to be viable, but the opposite: to cover the problems. Ladies and gentlemen, If there were an independent Ministry of Education, there would be more talk about the fact that there is no chalk in schools, that the number of higher education students is decreasing year after year, or that according to all measurements, the performance of Hungarian education is drastically deteriorating. If there were an independent Ministry of Health, there would be more talk about the fact that in the last eight years, the number of patients who died from hospital infection has doubled, or that thousands of healthcare workers leave the country, and there are slowly no general practitioners in half of the country. But the only purpose of this ministry is to keep these things to a minimum. We find it unacceptable that there is a separate ministry for Paks enlargement, while not only is it a separate ministry, but there is not even a secretary of state for environmental protection. Environmental and nature protection does not exist for the majority of governments, although there are a number of warning signs, such as climate change or accelerating water scarcity, rapid degradation of soil and natural resources, indicating that these challenges cannot be swept under the carpet. No more eloquent evidence is needed that this government is incapable of thinking in the long term, only driven by short-term interests, and is specifically pursuing long-term responsible thinking in order for it to appear even at the level of the opinion. To tell you the truth, this government is chasing and taxing renewable energy, because it's the only way to justify the Paks expansion. For the government, unfortunately, environmental protection is just a distraction that needs to be suppressed as much as possible. But let's not just talk about what is missing, let's look at what is going on with the ministries that are going to be created by the adoption of the current law. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade remains, while last year it has been clearly proven that this system is unsuccessful and inoperative. [[Interview from Fidesz: What?]] The government sacrificed diplomacy on the altar of the foreign economy, but it did so by failing to produce any real results at the external economic level. [[Noise.]] Of course, we could be glad that there is a separate ministry of innovation and technology, but unfortunately, a self-contained ministry alone is of little value for a government that has proven that it has nothing to do with XXI. The challenges and opportunities of the century. Ladies and gentlemen, In the case of a government which believes that Hungary can only succeed if the Hungarian people work a lot for little money; in the case of a government that has not, for a moment in the last eight years, trusted that the Hungarian people have the talent to base the country's competitiveness on their knowledge, it is feared that in this ministry they will come up with innovative ideas for corruption, because it will have only one goal: that the funds for development will land as much as possible in friendly pockets. We find it extremely problematic that, with regard to the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior, there would be an amendment that would allow the Minister to set up a body that would control the defence and police bodies from the Ministry. In addition, the head of these bodies is appointed and acquitted by the Prime Minister. It follows that the political influence over law enforcement agencies will continue to increase, in the new model of operation politicians will be able to control the military and the police. We need to talk about the ministries that directly assist the Prime Minister's work, because that is the most. It seems that every time Viktor Orbán wins an election, there will always be one more Chancellery Ministry. Right now, we're at three. The Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister remains, more commonly known as the Propagandaministery. We all know that this will be the most important ministry of the whole structure, because for years this government has not turned communication into governance, but has adapted governance to communication. In addition, the campaign has shown that this is the ministry where Fidesz as a party and the government are most intertwined. There's a party propaganda going on in this department on state money. The Prime Minister's Office will remain, but the Prime Minister's Government Office will be established, which is almost all that can be said for now. We don't know what his task will be, we don't know what his authority will be, and we don't know exactly what the point of creating the many new parallel structures is other than making the Prime Minister feel safe, because no one in the government will be too strong, of course, outside of him. However, parallels sooner or later lead to conflict, it is feared that after a while the effectiveness of government will be reduced, that the battles and fault lines within Fidesen will also appear in the government structure. Overall, we cannot support this governance structure simply because it is not intended to be good and effective governance; it is not intended to improve the living conditions, living standards and health of Hungarian people, so that we have a high-quality education system, so that the Hungarian economy can develop in a sustainable way, that we preserve our natural values and have a healthy environment, but that we can have as little interference with the work of the Prime Minister and the government as possible. And I have one more important question: the institution of sustainable development is completely lacking in the governance structure. In many countries, it has been established that, within the framework of the Prime Minister's Office or alongside the Prime Minister, an advisory body, department, has been set up to assist and coordinate sustainable development within the government. We don't even have that in mind. In short, according to the LMP, there is a need for an independent Ministry of Health, an independent Ministry of Education and an independent Ministry of the Environment, because the real challenges lie here in Hungary. It is necessary to create a country where you do not need to flee to private health to receive normal care. Hungary can win the next decades, but this requires world-class education. Workers' poverty must be eliminated because it is unacceptable that work in Hungary is not the same for millions of people to earn a decent living. And we must protect our natural and environmental values, because they can be the foundation of a successful Hungary. For these purposes, this governance structure is inadequate, so LMP cannot support it. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-05-11-26	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking if there's anyone else who wants to speak on the remaining time frame. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Mr Máté Kocsis of the Fidesz Group has applied for a speech. Mr Fraction Manager, before I give you the floor, I would like to inform this House that Mr Péter Harrach has indicated to me that the remaining timeframe for the KDNP will be passed on to Fidesz. I request the technical staff to modify the timeframes on the basis of this notification. That's how I give you the floor. Mr. Team Leader, you have the floor, please.
u2018-05-11-27	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Four minutes is also a good opportunity to give a brief summary and answers to this raised debate. Firstly, there must have been some opposition opinions that could be taken seriously and some that were not. We were not expecting anything in this debate other than what had happened, but perhaps it is worth discussing in a few sentences what has been said before us. I would no longer stress the tension between opposition parties by telling them which speech is worthy of an answer and which is not. [[10.20]] However, I would like to say to Mr Arató, who is terrified of military coup, that there is not much logic in making a military coup out of a two-thirds political mandate. Military coup, my fellow Member, is usually committed by those in the minority, and anyway, the military coup and the police officer are close to your president, not to our President and our political community; there is no need or possibility for such a thing. [[Interventions from the benches of the governing parties: That's right!]] It is necessary for my fellow Member from Turda to make a brief but far-reaching interpretation: we have a long four years ahead of you, Member. [[Defiance from the benches of the governing parties.]] In the context of the culture of respect, I would nevertheless like to ask you to address my fellow Members who have given you permission to do so, not only because it is not customary within the walls of Parliament, but also because anyone who has a nursery knows and applies this rule in general. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]] One of the greatest disappointments in the life of our friend and fellow Member, John Lazarus, is that you defended him, and believe me. [[Defiance from the benches of the governing parties.]] Mr. Hiller's head of the group. I would like to respond, by the way, to the points made by the opposition, and even to a single opposition position, in their name the issue of increasingly strengthened education, health and other sectoral ministries. We do not believe, Mr Group leader, and it accepts this view from us that the supervision of a ministry or a sector depends on the name of the supervisory body. Let me be specific: for example, the Ministry of Employment under the Socialist Government and unemployment was 13 percent; there is no such ministry now and it is below 4 percent. But I could also say that there was a Department of Social and Family Affairs when they took away the family tax relief. Now there is no Ministry of Family Affairs, and it is the government that gives most of its support to families. [[Interventions from the benches of the governing parties: That's right! Interventions from the benches of opposition parties.]] So accept that according to our belief, we believe that a ministry is not classified by its name, it is not designated by its name, but by its name, but by its work, the people leading it, and its content, the political direction the government designates for it. It might be worth talking briefly about whether the Prime Minister has the right to manage within the Ministries, but I would not bring the seriousness of the debate to such a level, so I ask you to dismiss it. Overall, I ask you to take into account that the mandate that our political community received in the 8 April elections gives the Prime Minister so much opportunity to determine the system of its own government in the old government structure, keeping the old government department headcount, taking into account its own political direction. I would also ask that the political traditions of this be taken into account when acting in support or against the proposal, and I would also ask for your support for the proposal that has been tabled. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-05-11-28	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I'd like to improve two of your speeches. Mr Hiller is the Vice-President of the Parliament and is not the head of the MSZP faction [[Máté Kocsis raises his hand towards Dr. István Hiller: Excuse me.]] But it was probably just a catchphrase. I ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The consolidated debate is closed. I am now going to ask Mr Gergely Gulyás, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2018-05-11-29	In view of the fact that Mr Kocsis is also a rapporteur, I consider what he has said to be a national response. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-05-11-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I ask you all to check that your voting card has been properly placed in the voting machine, because we are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that one of our fellow Members has not taken an oath, and four of our fellow Members cannot participate in Parliament because of conflicts of interest, and therefore cannot exercise the right to vote. Dear Parliament, Next up is the list of the Ministries of Hungary and the amendment of certain related laws T/14. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. I would like to remind you that, according to our decision yesterday, the bill is being discussed by Parliament by way of house rules. T/14/3. T/14/4. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would also like to inform you that, in addition to the preliminary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee, T/14/2. The Commission also submitted a proposal for an amendment that went beyond the scope of the proposed amendment. Following the decision on the summary amendment proposal, we should therefore first decide on the regularity of the over-extensive amendment proposal and then decide on its adoption. First, we will decide on the summary amendment proposal. I respectfully ask the Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/14/3. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 126 votes in favour, 35 against and without abstentions. We are now deciding on the regularity of the excessive amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/14/2 qualifies it as legal. The proposal for an over-expansive amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament declared the proposal for an amendment expanding by 126 votes in favour, 31 votes against and 3 abstentions in order. Accordingly, we are now deciding to adopt the over-extensive amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/14/2. The proposed amendment, which is duly over-extensive, was proposed. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the proposal for an amendment extending by 127 votes in favour, 32 against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. In doing so, we will decide on the text of the bill, as amended by the summarised amendment proposal and the expanding amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/14 will accept it. Changed bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the amended bill by 127 votes in favour, 35 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, It follows a decision on the personal proposal. I would like to ask Mr László Földi to present the S/18 presented under presidential authority. The content of the personal proposal. Mr. Note, you have the floor, please.
u2018-05-11-31	5/2018 on the establishment of committees, election of officials and members of the Parliament Okay. Decision - hereinafter referred to as "Ogy'. Decision No. 1 is amended as follows: The National Assembly of the Defence and Police Committee György Hubay, Fidesz; Dr. Brenner Kolomant, Jobbik to the Committee on Foreign Affairs; Mónika Bartos, Fidesz, instead of János Halász, Fidesz; Rig Lajos, Jobbik to the Committee on People's Welfare. [[10.30]] The Ogy. Point 2 of the Decision is amended as follows. The Parliament elects Ádám Héjj Dávid, Fidesz, member of the Committee. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption. Budapest, 11 May 2018
u2018-05-11-32	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept S/18. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the personal proposal by 159 votes in favour, with 1 abstention, without voting against. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the decisions. I would like to inform you that the next Spring Session is expected to take place on 18 May 2018. I thank you all for your work today, and I wish you all a good day. The meeting's closed.
