u2018-06-18-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 1st day of the extraordinary meeting of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Reliable notary will be of assistance to me. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, I declare that Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén, on behalf of the Government, is the XXXVI of 2012 on Parliament. Law 35. On the basis of Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament initiated the convening of its extraordinary session on 18 and 20 June 2018. He indicated in the annex to his letter all the proposals which the Government initiated to negotiate in the extraordinary session of the Parliament. The letter and its attachment can be found on the website by representatives and interested parties. Dear Parliament, Márton Gyöngyösi, leader of Jobbik's group, applied for a pre-meeting speech. It's an address. Here you go.
u2018-06-18-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It is a well-known fact that Hungary has given the world the most Nobel Prize winners in terms of its number and total population, but it is also interesting why our scientists did prevail abroad, why they fulfilled there, even though they gained knowledge here in Hungary. Until the change of regime, we could blame the anti-human and anti-scientific policy and operation of totalitarian systems forced on us from the outside for this, which drove away our thinkers, our scientists, but 27 years ago the question arises of what we can pinpoint that this trend has not changed. Thousands of skilled young people, our scientists, are migrating from our little country. There are many legitimate questions in the field of science that should be discussed professionally. The question arises as to how scientific research is incorporated into education. The question arises as to why budgetary resources for education and higher education are as scarce as they are. Where are the priorities in the field of research in Hungary, and this could be compared, for example, with neighbouring Austria, where an independent Ministry of Education, Science and Research receives nearly EUR 8 billion of state aid to improve research and development by the state. Changes are also needed in Hungary in the field of research and science, but Fidesz, like in many other fields, took this issue in the wrong direction again when it amended the 2019 Budget Act and amended the Act on the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and virtually abolished the financial autonomy of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. We've had a lot of negative experiences in the last eight years. For example, when you have centralised public education and created the KLIK, which you now realize is a complete failure; when in higher education the institution of chancellors was created, and therefore quasi-political commissaries were appointed to lead higher education institutions; when they decided to abandon universities here; or when József Pálinkás is now trying to remove József Pálinkás from the head of the National Research, Development and Innovation Office, just because he could not view this kind of activity without criticism. That is why you do not have the confidence when you are trying to eliminate the financial autonomy of the Academy of Sciences by amending the Finance Act and amending the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. There are basically two independent institutions in Hungary today, independent of NER: the Hungarian courts and the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. The autonomous right to dispose of direct budget support is withdrawn when state aid is transferred through the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, nearly HUF 40 billion per year, but if we add the amounts of higher education institutions per research and development or the annual funding of the National Science Research Fund programme, this will amount to nearly HUF 70 billion. And here the ITM, citing a kind of unified coordination, does not provide any guarantee that the maintenance of the institute network, the definition of wage and operating costs, the definition of research topics, the evaluation of the proposals can be carried out by the Hungarian Academy of Sciences on its own. And the way you do this is quite amazing; the fact that such a change, such an amendment, is sent to the Legal and Administrative Department of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences by leaving you 54 minutes to comment. Overall, this is the assassination of the integrity and independence of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, and the budget of the independent institution is transferred to the state, thus nationalising the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, which is the XX. The 20th century dictatorships are typical of the 20th century dictatorships. It cites the anti-science and research policy of dictatorships of the century. This is the tradition you follow when you want to put science and research under ideologies. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-18-2	I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés. Here you go.
u2018-06-18-3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Despite all your beliefs, the fears you have expressed, which you see as actions to prepare for the creation of a single innovation strategy, an attempt to break down the independence of science, or you see as unfounded. Undoubtedly, those involved in the Hungarian scientific life no longer experienced a historical situation that you mentioned as an example when the purpose of the power really was to break down independence. But like the 1950s, we can think of the period 2002-2010, when the socialist-liberal government was active, because in 2005, János Kóka, Minister of Economy, literally quoted research institutions that did not generate any profit in the market: he set the flag for equalizing the land. What our government has put before Parliament in the form of a bill has nothing to do with any attempt to reduce the Academy into a nomenclature, privatize or financially impossible. On the contrary, the Academy and the knowledge accumulated there bear values that the country desperately needs in the midst of current technology change challenges and the expansion of automation. [[13.10]] Hungary can only remain successful and competitive in the future if it is at the forefront of European innovation. However, this can only be achieved as a small country, with limited opportunities and resources, if all the depositaries of Hungarian innovation do their work in a coordinated, efficient and consistent way. The government therefore establishes and implements Hungary's single innovation and science policy strategy. However, the strategy should not only focus on expanding R &amp; D resources, reaching 1.8 percent of GDP by 2020, but also on making the most effective use of available resources. To this end, the government proposed that the planning of the allocation of HUF 70 billion at the state institutions should not take place in the separate structure of the Academy, higher education institutions and the National Research Fund for Sciences, but in a joint and coordinated manner, dealing with duplication and gaps. Let me remind you that this is not the first time the Orbán government has successfully implemented such a necessary scientific policy step. In 2015, the coordination of the National Scientific Research Fund programme was transferred to the management of a public body, the then National Innovation Office. There was no shortage of indignation at the funeral of scientific autonomy. And then, with the anger, it turned out that the system works well, effectively, without compromising scientific freedom. The institutions concerned, including the Institute of the Academy, will continue to function in the fullness of the scientific freedoms enjoyed now; the portfolio of innovation does not, of course, want to interfere with what scientists are researching and what they do not. The only consequence of the planned measure is that these institutions can contribute to the development of Hungarian culture and science as part of a more efficient and responsible cooperation framework in the future. You must have missed it, but Minister László Palkovics said several times in this case this weekend, emphasising two areas, two things. On the one hand, the innovation portfolio was created to make the Hungarian research system work more efficiently. And the second point was that the government does not want to interfere with how the Hungarian Academy of Sciences distributes the resources at its disposal, and it is only about planning the resources for research in one place in the future in order to be effective. Thank you for your attention, your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-06-18-4	Ferenc Gyurcsány, on behalf of DK, also applied for a speech before the agenda. I give you the floor.
u2018-06-18-5	Dear Parliament, As you know, the government plans to make the protection of Christianity, which is part of the Hungarian historical, cultural and intellectual heritage, a mandatory task of the state institutions, and it intends to lay down this in the Fundamental Law. It's a startling plan at first sight. Is there anyone who would question the role of Christianity in Hungary's historical culture and spiritual life? I don't think so. Is there any threat to this legacy? Well, if there's a threat, I think it's a kind of state defense, but there's only one thing that guarantees the life and survival of the spirit and faith: freedom. Moreover, the spiritual-cultural content of Christendom cannot be separated from active, inner belief and practiced belief in God. Is it the duty of any state to make it part of the state's faith, religion, and heritage, one out of the storehouse of otherwise colorful cultural and spiritual or religious heritage? I don't think so. Because it is the constitutional duty of the state to protect its citizens in order to be able to choose freely among a wide range of cultures, beliefs, beliefs and religions. Moreover, is there a handhold that would pave the way for any state institution to see what is really the authentic Christian heritage today? Who best interprets it: the Bishop of Szeged-Chanad or the Váci? Pope Francis or president of the Christian Democratic People's Party? What's next? And did it not occur to all who cherish this plan, what suffering and tragedy XX brought about? In the first century, any state committed to the exclusive representation of one closed idea and tried to force it on its citizens? Isn't that what happened regardless of intentions, and I don't dispute that they have made the worst for that spirit and idealism and its representatives, and ultimately for the nation itself, and turned it into a national tragedy that never passes away in pain and memory? I think so. I think it is important to promote the freedom of the citizens of the country to cultivate and build this heritage, because it is not the same, because it rebuilds the culture itself and rephrases its perception of reality over and over again. And at the same time, we see that in the name of the Christian faith of love, they are or intend to establish a Fundamental Law against homelessness, the prohibition of living on the streets, which I know is disturbing a lot of people, but it can be from the same mouth fire and water at the same time... I don't think so. Is it possible, in the name of Christendom, to brand organizations, institutions, walls of houses undisturbed? You don't remember what happened in the name of similar actions in XX. In the century? Don't you understand that this isn't a game? You are using ideas and solutions that have set this half of Europe on fire and finally all of it on fire. I do not claim that this is what they want, but I say that they will take in their hands and hand over to others a means that they will not cultivate Hungary's intellectual and cultural heritage, but they will turn people against each other in will and will turn them into knights of hatred. Therefore, I would quietly suggest that you consider, perhaps, that you remain silent in this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-06-18-6	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2018-06-18-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I think that one thing would be very good for Mr. Group leader: if he looked in the mirror, he would look at himself, what he was performing here in Parliament, see what he was performing here in Parliament when he was Prime Minister, and look at what he was doing to the government when he was able to lead Hungary. [[13.20]] Dear Chief of Staff, Hungary is a country with a Christian culture. You're questioning the fact that we're putting this into the Fundamental Law. But then I ask you, what culture do you think this country is if it's not a Christian culture? What else founded our thousands of years of statehood, if not Christianity? What are the moral foundations of this country, our entire social arrangement, if not Christian moral foundations? Where else has religious patience been created anywhere else in the world, if not in a Christian culture? Have you ever heard of Muslim religious patience? There are very good initiatives, but that religion does not build on patience, but gives a total world view that dominates religious issues, social issues and political issues alike. Do you want to live in a world like this? Or he wants to say that we live in a country based on 450 years of religious patience, where among the first people in Europe, Christian religious practitioners were assured that they were free to practice their religions, because at that time there were various Christian denominations in Hungary. So Hungary is a country of Christian culture, and it is homely because it is a Christian culture. It has the potential for prosperity, security and economic competitiveness because it is a Christian culture. If you visit other non - Christian countries on other continents, you can see how different the world is there. I, for one, want to live in one of these. And if people who want to live in Christian culture are denied the right to live in a world like this in Europe, where do they live? What part of the world will be where people who cling to Christian culture can live? And that doesn't involve a worldview obligation. That's what you're trying to explain. It's not like that at all! We know your religious knowledge. He may even be able to pay regularly to open up new theological perspectives. But if we take this issue seriously, then we can see that religious freedom is, of course, guaranteed to everyone here. You have agreed to various items of credit that, thank God, are not defined by you, but by the various officials of the church. In Hungary, the Fundamental Law is exemplary, I believe, in an exemplary way compared to all other countries, ensuring the free exercise of or abstaining from religion in a very modern way, and it says that there are Community goals for which the state and the church work together. But otherwise, they operate separately, not intertwined. It's the right thing to do, because we come from believing people. And the point, honourable Member, is that in the matter of homelessness, you say that it is a good way to let thousands of people stay on the streets, in very difficult circumstances, in hopelessness, and this would be the way of freedom of the future, then we think it is not. The way forward is to help these people get out of this situation. This is why we have a wider and wider social assistance system from billions of forints. We have so many night quarters, we have enough reception centers that can take these people in and help them get out of this. Honourable Congressman, Since 1990, this country has had countless governments, but we have not managed to solve the phenomenon of homelessness. Now this government is finally facing this problem honestly and is trying to use these tools to help these people back into normal life and to expect them to cooperate to accept the state's assistance. The freedom is not to push the state's aid away, and I put myself and the people around me in some kind of health or other danger. The freedom is to accept the state's help, to try to help myself to a humane way of life, and thus to try to make my environment safer. We think it's a real and proper sense of freedom. Dear Chief of Staff, And I completely reject what you have been doing for decades: if you do not have any arguments against national governments, then XX. They set up parallels with the idea of one of the killers of the century. You have no moral basis for this, whose power is derived from the power of the MSZMP. On the other hand, this shows that they have no real arguments, and the Hungarian voters were neither buyers in the previous elections, nor in the previous elections, nor in the previous elections. So what I am asking is precisely that the Hungarian political discourse should not be the public address of such accusations and hatred, so that these parallels can be forgotten once and for all. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-18-8	On behalf of the LMP, Mr Lóránt Keresztes asked for the floor:. Obsolete action to address the causes of the migration crisis. Congressman's got the floor.
u2018-06-18-9	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, If I may refer with a brief thought back to the debate that we have just had, then I must say that this is the case, this side-by-side narrative is a good illustration of the problem that I would like to say briefly here before the agenda. The debate of the Fundamental Law and the so-called Stop Soros bill is almost over here in Parliament. These are, in fact, two salad laws, which we can say raise very serious problems in its justification, are about very serious unspoken issues and are trying to offer solutions to them. However, these proposals have nothing to do with this root problem. In recent times, but we can say that in recent years, or in the last few weeks, since these legislative proposals have been here before the Parliament, we have also experienced what we are now in this House, that politicians are speaking side by side. In fact, there is no mention of the problems that really need to be solved, very serious critical problems, to say they are a question of fate for Europe and for all of us, but for some reason we have not been able to get to the point of speaking openly about these issues in Hungarian and European politics and to start talking about real solutions. Appreciating the current events of recent years and the past few weeks, we can say that the global migration crisis is a real serious problem. But it did not appear to the government as a problem to be solved, but as a means of communication, a power-technical tool, which was not intended to solve these problems, but was intended to put it at the heart of its policy, to produce a political theme, to prepare for parliamentary elections, and, in this period, in fact, to provide a strong political theme for the European Parliament and, where appropriate, for municipal elections, as an extension of parliamentary elections. I'm a congressman from Pécs. We have experienced and we have seen from a close perspective how this very important issue has become a political campaign issue, nothing but a political campaign issue. In 2015, when the strong waves of the migration crisis reached our country, the Orbán government decided to establish a temporary reception camp in the immediate vicinity of Pécs to the town of Martonfa, in such a way that no prior consultation was carried out with either the population of the settlement or the population of the neighbouring Pécs. So, as a dictatorship, this decision was made by the Orbán government. And when the opposition drew attention to this unacceptable procedure, then Fidesz politicians talked about how populist the opposition is. Then, a few months later, the political government communication directive appeared, and there was nothing they could really talk about but the issue of migration, but in this context, not the real problems, not the causes, but only the symptoms and the possibilities of symptomatic treatment. I recognise that the Orbán government has had a minimal positive role, at least in the context of symptomatic treatment, in that it has generated a kind of debate on certain decisions or initiatives of the European Union, which at least attracted more attention in European politics. However, we can also see that I myself have seen in Brussels in three years, while I have served as a member of the Committee of the Regions, that the politicians of the Hungarian Government have not been able to go beyond most of the European politicians in international politics, have not been able to deal with the causes of these issues, have not been able to open an honest debate, and in this way the content debate on this issue has completely failed. And it must be said that we see it as an ecopolitical party, as members of the LMP, that this problem, the problem of the global migration crisis, is a much more serious issue, and in the medium term it will affect all of us more than the Fidesz government is talking about. [[13.30]] I must say that this is a serious omission on your part that neither a substantive debate has been initiated nor a dialogue has been initiated on solutions. In recent weeks, since the amendment of the Fundamental Law and the amendment of the so-called Stop Soros appeared before the National Assembly, we have seen that the procedure that they have followed is the procedural way in which they have tried to propose solutions in a salad law by introducing completely inappropriate elements, it proves that you wanted to put a proposal on the table that the opposition will certainly not be able to accept. And they did not avail themselves of the possibility of honestly presenting to Parliament, through the debate that revealed real problems, a proposal that all parties, all opposition parties and, where appropriate, the entire Parliament could have accepted in a uniform manner, and that would have given us a great starting point for launching a debate at European level, an open, frank debate on issues. Thank you.
u2018-06-18-10	The answer is once again Bencé Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-06-18-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Your speech has shown that you do not acknowledge the importance of building a fence in the south. Donald Trump and Angela Merkel admitted it last week. Well, we have to live with the fact that László László Keresztes didn't admit it. And the political weight of the two should be assessed by everyone. You are talking about the absence of consultations on the issue of immigration. Please turn up, please, the sentences of your fellow Members from 3 to 4 years ago rather than 3 to 4 years ago, when they say that there is no need for national consultation, there is no need for a referendum, there is no need to talk so much about it, there is no need to ask citizens. Now you're telling me why citizens aren't asked. The way I've been listening to you, it's a little like you've been reading news since you've been here as a congressman. [[Defiance.]] But the events in front of him seem to have somehow missed it. He's talking about why there's no open talk about this. Honourable Congressman, If you look at it, it has been Hungary that has spoken about this issue at European level and, if necessary, at global level. Whether there was a debate in the European Parliament about this, either in the United Nations or in any international body, who spoke about it honestly and did not push for various forms of speaking in a politically correct manner, but openly said what Hungary thought and what it thought was a solution, it was precisely Hungary. You're saying it's a power device. Honourable Congressman, Government in the interests of the people, if you say this pejoratively as a power tool, then your soul is on it, but we consider this to be the essence of democracy. If people clearly want Hungary to be kept as a country of Hungarians, a nation with a Christian culture, then we will do so. And we're not looking for someone who has a lot of money, and they're thinking the opposite, and we're trying to live up to them. As you do, let's say your party president, Bernadett Wind, who has been saying things during the period you quoted, that there will be such challenges throughout the century, if we start to scare you, if we start talking about closing the borders, it will be nothing. That's what your party president said. He also said what you said here in your speech that immigration is no problem in Hungary, no wave of refugees. But he also told RTL Klub's newscast that the Fidesz-KDNP government in the media is now basically raising a topic on a daily basis, with which Hungary is currently not having a problem. If I look only at the last part, then Hungary has no problem with this because we have built a border closure, which you have not supported, of course, because you have not supported the creation of a fence at the southern border, and you have not supported legal closure and legal tightening, here in Parliament. They did not vote for Hungary to attack compulsory resettlement quotas in the European Court of Justice, they did not vote for the amendment of the basic law prohibiting resettlement quotas, and they did not resist resettlement quotas in the referendum. So if it were up to you, the second part of this sentence is that Hungary would not have a problem at the moment, would not be up; because Hungary would have the same problem as Austria or Italy, where governments are swept away by the kind of dissatisfaction on the part of the people that they represent not his interests, but the interests of some kind of interest groups in Brussels or George Soros's network, which are a bit phantomized. We, on the other hand, want to act in the best interest of the people. And that's just foam on the cake, what your party president said at the National Security Committee meeting, that the fence is not humane and it is not a solution to the refugee issue at all. Honourable Congressman, I see, and now more and more European and American leaders see that Hungary has chosen the right path on this issue. And I reject the distortions of any kind of station in the vicinity of Pécs. We didn't try to fix this problem by building a fence, and the latter was successful. That's what the past few years have proven. However, for the LMP, I think András Schiffer had some advice to consider. Party politics makes sense exactly as long as he sends this message to those remaining in the LMP, who left his party as founding president, because the party has abandoned its principles, so party politics makes sense according to András Schiffer, as long as we are subjecting tactical considerations to well-identifiable moral goals, and not the other way around. Your MEP, on the other hand, has repeatedly said that there is a need for European mandatory quotas and that there is no other solution. Your former party president also said that LMP did not offer the Hungarian people narratives, visions, or any uniform direction, and in recent months it has been unsuitable for the LMP policy, because it is not distinguished by a magnifying glass from other parties around you. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-18-12	Next up is Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of MSZP, with the title of Fidesz communication and other Hungarian reality. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2018-06-18-13	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, 2018 will be the year of families, said the Prime Minister last year. After all, he was right, his relatives took 1.5 billion forints of dividends, and in four years they earned nearly 4.4 billion in income. Every kid got a playground, Rachel Orbán chose fashion instead of soccer, only she becomes a fashion dictator, not the country's. His other child founded a church and who knows what religion he preaches in the country. While we can celebrate the year of the Orbán family together, while many people are sucking their teeth to pay for their children's summer camp, how they school their children, how they finance the housing of their children who go to college, how they make a living at all. If we overlook the draft 2019 budget, nothing will change in essence next year. It will be even better for the rich, even worse for the large majority, while taxpayers' money goes to unnecessary investments: sports halls, stadiums, small railway station. We could also say that next year, the goal of the government is to keep friends and the rich safe and the poor in doubt. Despite a 4.1 percent increase, the government is not willing to spend more on welfare expenditure in proportion to GDP, and even less and less on health, education, support for families, the unemployed, the elderly, the poor, while everyone knows that inflation is increasing brutally. The government is talking about what family-friendly measures it will take. Yeah, but who's in favor of all this? Has the family allowance been raised in the last eight years, child benefit, maternity allowance? No! Next year, these benefits will be transferred to the Hungarian families in the same amount for 11 years. Families with children in difficulty still do not benefit from economic growth. In almost all cases, the amount of appropriations is reduced. We can also say that we see that no more children are born, and even the population of Hungary is drastically declining. The family allowance is nearly HUF 5 billion less, with almost HUF 800 million less, with more than HUF 0.5 billion, and the amount of the baby bond transfer remains unchanged. But what is even more striking is that the government's pride, child food, will have less money next year than this year, while fuel prices and food prices are rising. Next year, there will be HUF 330 million less to support children's meals. In addition, the line entitled Support for Holiday Meals for Children in Deprived and Institutional Children's Food Support was consolidated with additional amounts this year. Thus, we do not know exactly how much money is planned to support children living in difficult circumstances on holiday. Most of the social support remains unchanged. The basic amount of the care allowance will not change next year, and the per capita amount of public health care will not increase. The funding for district aid will be reduced by HUF 332 million next year. The two-year reference amount of the regular child protection discount will also remain unchanged. There will be no more future support for the child protection housing fund. We are also talking about various social, social, civil and non-profit organisations and disabled organisations, and they cannot expect greater public support next year. [[13.40]] So much for making every family better next year. In the next year's budget, hundreds of billions of people are going to make unnecessary investments, which is not only good for sharing money with friends, but we can actually say that Fidesz friends are spending budget support. Typically, the word "poverty" does not appear in the general justification of the budget. We know very well that this word does not exist for you, it has been deleted from their dictionary. Fidesz also acts in the budget, in the 2019 budget: if we do not talk about something, it is as if it does not exist. Just, dear fellow Members, just because you do not talk about poverty, you do not talk about stealing, everyone knows about it, and this is the reality in Hungary. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-06-18-14	I give the floor to State Secretary Csaba Dömötör. Here you go.
u2018-06-18-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As far as the year of families is concerned, this government has been helping families for many years, and you have not said anything about it. Young married couples also receive tax benefits, including those raising children; those raising more children receive more; we also help them with a home-building program. That's how we ended the era of foreign exchange lending, which, by the way, you gave way to. You left that out of your speech hurtfully. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Three times as much money is now available for children's meals as in the time of the socialist government to the left. Tens of thousands of children can take vacations in Elizabeth camp and camps, more and more can do so. The idea of a camp like this hasn't even crossed your mind. So much for the year of families. He mentioned many questions, many topics, so allow me to respond in general. Yesterday, one of the left-wing analysts wrote on his Facebook page that the MSZP had elected president and added: "But why?" We do not agree with this from the point of view that every renewal is a chance to start over, and I think that is the case with the MSZP, so we wish the newly elected Presidency a good job. But even before the idea of a fresh start, the idea of a fresh start on the left, the mood is too much for us, allow me to say that from this speech as well as from the MSZP Congress, it is clear that everything on the left remains the same. Nothing changes, least of all their policies and their speeches. This MSZP, looking at the old-new players, is the same pro-immigration, austerity-maniac MSZP as before, and also overlooks corruption among its ranks as well as the previous leadership. As for the state of the country, since you do not govern, some things have happened in Hungary. This country has quite a few results; allow me to highlight some of them. Over 700,000 new jobs have been created. I say this separately because it's the shortest way out of poverty if everyone has a job. According to Eurostat, the number of people exposed to poverty has decreased by nearly 800,000, the minimum wage has increased by 88 percent, and the minimum wage for skilled workers has doubled, while net earnings have increased by 60 percent compared to your last government year. I have already mentioned that the government has abolished the foreign exchange lending system, while energy prices have decreased, the VAT on basic foods has decreased, the elderly can already receive a pension supplement and a pension premium thanks to the performance of the economy, and by the way, as I said, we can spend three times as much on children's meals as we did in your time. What you said about education and health care, it just doesn't stand the test of reality. We spend 428 billion on education and 550 billion on health compared to socialist governance. You know that very well. By the way, you're talking about the MSZP and social democracy after Congress, but we know what kind of service you provided when you were in government. Where was your social sensitivity when unemployment doubled during left-wing governance? Or when hundreds of thousands of people were on the street because you dumped them? Or when a month's wages were taken from hundreds of thousands, from the elderly, from employees? Why were they not so caring when hundreds of thousands were trapped in debt for foreign exchange credit? [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] When you steered, and that's the most serious thing, it was worth living on welfare instead of work. Now, this is about everything but human dignity, which, by the way, is supposed to be so important to the left. There's been a lot of talk about education and health these days, all by shutting down a bunch of schools, and they wanted to make healthcare pay with a noble simplicity, you know very well. And if they had an opportunity, I'd do the same thing right now. This means that the MSZP will remain completely uninterested by the message of choice, that security is the first, which concerns not only the immigration crisis, but also financial security. So this MSZP is the same MSZP. It's not new, it's the same old squad that's already bankrupted the country several times, and he's still a constrained maniac. He can't protect Hungary at all, probably because he doesn't want to. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-18-16	Now it's time for Bence Tordai, from the Dialogue: "Really?" It's an address. You have the floor.
u2018-06-18-17	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz-KDNP ridicules constitutionality for many times, but also its own Fundamental Law. I would say that it is a bad joke, as the protection of Christian culture was pushed into the Fundamental Law in one night as a modification of the Christian culture, not long before the ban on the homeless. It's a bad joke, which I'm sure you don't take seriously. But the thing is, the whole Fidesz Party Rule Act is a bad joke that you guys take very seriously. So let's take this seriously for a moment and start at the beginning. Europe and Hungary are not a country with a purely Christian culture, but are building on the traditions of ancient democracies, the Jewish-Christian cultural circle and enlightenment. What I understand is that Fidesz is an infinite stranger to democracy, so it was excluded from their own separate Party State Fundamental Law. I also understand that the idea of enlightenment is far from the regime that wants to bring our country back into spiritual darkness. But then let's look at Christianity. Even more so, because ever since they found out that the illiberal state was an embarrassing term, they have been trying to sell the entire regime as a Christian democracy. I forward, I am an atheist myself, but I appreciate the radical left-wing humanist social philosophy represented by Jesus Christ. And vice versa, if Jesus lived today and looked around in Hungary, he would certainly embrace decent philanthropists like us and give a referral to the deepest circles of hell to the ministers of government politics. [[Moraj, interrogations from the ruling parties.]] Because their own politics is the exact opposite of Christian principles, yet they do not transcend themselves and call their government Christian. Fidesz's politics is about incitement to hatred and fear. However, Christendom's second main command is to love your neighbor as yourself. In the apostle John's first letter, he adds: "There is no fear in love, and even complete love drives fear out; for fear involves torment, but he who fears is not perfect in love. Fidesz now bans the homeless, pursues asylum seekers, and its policy consistently affects the poor and the sick. What does the Lord himself say about this in the Bible? According to Isaiah chapter 58: "Divide your bread with the hungry, bring the poor homeless into your house, if you see a naked man, clothe him, and don't shut yourself away from your brother. If you don't put a vehicle on anyone, you don't point a finger, and you don't speak deceitfully, if you share your snack with the hungry and keep the poor, then your light will shine in the dark, and your gloom will be like the sun of the south. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. But Jesus says in Matthew chapter 25: "Come, you blessed of my father, inherit the kingdom that is ready for you from the beginning of the world, because you have starved and given me food, thirst and drink, I have been a stranger, and you have received me, I have been naked and endowed, I have been sick, and you have visited me, I have been in prison, and you have come to me. Then will the True answer him like this, Lord, when have we seen you starve to eat, or thirst to drink? When did we see you as a stranger, that we would take you in, or naked, that we would endow you? When did we see you sick or in prison, that we'd come to you? The King will answer them this way: "Verily I say to you, every time you have done these things even one of my youngest brothers, you have done it with me. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. And finally, Fidesz policy is mostly about stealing. Stealing from everything and everyone, stealing day and night. [[13.50]] What does the apostle Paul say to them in his letter to the Ephesians? The thief should no longer steal, but rather work, and acquire the goods with his own hands, so that he has something to give to the needy. Thank you. [[Car-Cake Olivio applauds.]]
u2018-06-18-18	State Secretary Miklós Soltész has the floor.
u2018-06-18-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I thank you very much for the message you have given in front of everyone; it is perfectly natural for someone to take on their worldview, to be proud of it, and to be accepted by the community. I think it's a natural thing. I am also pleased that you have brought Bible quotations to the Parliament. I must say that this is a step from atheism to Christianity [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] It's certainly good for many, many people, and history, the history of Christendom's 2,000-year history, has shown that many people have crossed the path you may have taken today's quotations. I don't want to discuss it, but what you've said is often stupid; first of all, we want to ban homeless people. Either he doesn't speak Hungarian well, and he doesn't understand the concepts in Hungarian, or he deliberately confuses them and wants to claim something that is a net lie. I say this because no one can ban homeless people, neither Switzerland is one of the richest countries in the world, nor Germany, nor the United States of America. And he doesn't want to ban the homeless, he wants to change the homeless, he wants to help. What has happened in Hungary in recent years, I think it has been a huge change, a change of perspective for previous decades, a need for this country to pursue a completely different homeless policy and social policy since 2010. That is not possible, everyone knows very well that it is not normal, while we are spending billions on dealing with homelessness, and this includes the job creation that the Secretary of State was talking about earlier, the 700 thousand more jobs that we have created over the last eight years; this includes the fact that most homeless homes now receive not only housing, food and, where appropriate, warming opportunities for homeless people, but also the opportunity to return to the life to which the large majority would otherwise like to return. It's not normal in a country that a country, with the help of the socialists, has built the most expensive subway in the world, the 4 metro, and then all the exits of subway 4, all the undergrounds are dirty, contaminated, they sleep there, and people who use the services of the transport company for 100,000 can't come out. Do you think that's normal? While on one side we build homeless shelters, while on one side we renew homeless shelters, while there is more capacity in the homeless area, and on the other hand hundreds and thousands of people are lying in the dirt and infecting all those who may go there with small children, who may be suffering from severe diseases, who, if necessary, need to undergo some kind of treatment because they are suffering from cancer. Do you think it's normal to have the opportunity on one side and not use it on the other, and the whole country is contaminated? He's crazy! This is recognised by the organisations handling the homeless, which is recognised by the charities. And if you are quoting from the Bible through many areas and through many quotes, I do not want to literally interpret the words of the apostle Paul, for many people are twisting it, but yet you said: "He who does not work, let him not eat. " It's not that. We follow exactly the Bible's command to teach anyone who can fish, not to give fish. We've saved whoever we can from the misery that you live in, not keep you in that misery, to the shame of the country and of everyone. What you're doing here, believe me, is another couple of thousand or a few hundred liberals on Facebook who have no idea how to deal with such situations. It is necessary to make man worthy of his relationship with humanity, of the one who has fallen out of his environment, and of the man who is homeless, of the same dignity, of love, but not of the way you do, but of the assistance that you have, of the money, of the support, of the man, of the charities, of the state organizations. Thank you very much for your speech. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-18-20	On behalf of the KDNP, Congressman Imre Vejkey asks for the floor:. What is Hungary doing to help persecuted Christians? It's an address. Here you go.
u2018-06-18-21	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In the book of the prophet Ezekiel, we read that if the watchman sees the armed enemy coming, but does not blow the horn and warn the people, God asks of him for lost human lives. God ordered us to be watchmen, and we blew the horn. We have pointed out that the rise of extreme Islamic trends throughout the world is a threat to Christians. Christendom is now the most persecuted religion in the world, for 215 million people in 108 countries of the world suffer some form of persecution. Interestingly, organisations disguised as defenders and representatives of Balliberal media find it not important to report on the persecution of Christians. The attacks and acts of terrorism against Christians in recent years threaten not only the regular churchgoers who practice their religion, but also all citizens of the Christian majority, Christian culture and history. The aim of extremists is to abolish Christian culture and civilization. Part of this is the destruction of Christian cultural heritage, because the aim of extreme trends is to systematically destroy both Christian churches and Christian works of art, as unfortunately we have seen in the Middle Eastern examples of recent years. Ladies and Gentlemen, However, the jihadist terrorist organization Islamic State not only systematically destroys churches and Christian culture, but also the Christ-believing man himself, and tries to intimidate the entire Jewish-Christian world. Therefore, terrorist organisations have not only done terrible destruction in Iraq and Syria, but they are also present in Africa, and they are also involved in terrorist attacks in Western Europe, which have already claimed victims on a daily basis by countless outrageous, bloody assassinations. Ladies and Gentlemen, Christians had to flee from areas occupied by Islam. Those who did not flee became martyrs because they were cruelly slaughtered in their own homes, in their own homeland. The sin of the executioners was that they were Christians and did not deny their Christian faith. The persecuted Christians are not illegal migrants on the road because of a better standard of living, but are indeed refugees whose lives are at risk. They didn't kick in the fence. They asked for admission. They were able to verify their identity, cooperate with the authorities, and respect the laws of recipients. By the way, most of them did not come to Europe, but fled to a country near their homeland, waiting for the fights to end there, because they wanted to return to their own village, their own homeland, as soon as possible. In 2016, the Hungarian Parliament adopted a five-party resolution condemning the persecution and genocide in the Middle East and Africa, as well as supporting the persecuted. One month after the decision, the Hungarian Government established the Deputy State Secretary responsible for helping persecuted Christians, a leading initiative at international level. In recent years, there have been many high-ranking, Middle Eastern, Christian church leaders in Budapest. They asked for help in helping to stay at home and to return home and rebuild. [[14.00]] If persecuted Christians do not return to their homeland, then Christianity may cease to exist, ladies and gentlemen, in a place where it has been present for up to two thousand years. Please listen to their hearts and do whatever you can to help persecuted Christians, just as the Government of Hungary does. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]]
u2018-06-18-22	Mr. Miklós Soltész has the floor again. Here you go.
u2018-06-18-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for your contribution, for the work of the Parliament so far and, of course, for the work of all those who have done a great deal to save the persecuted Christians. The problem is complex, and we have felt the severity of this for nearly three years, which is the most embodied in migration, and in this the Hungarian answer is absolutely clear; it is absolutely clear and can be said that we are doing our job in two directions: one is to preserve the security of the country, the next step of this will be to vote in favour of the Stop Soros Act, the question is that the opposition will help us to defend the Hungarian people, protect the nations who live here, and thus help us, but locally, and that is our other task. At the time of this great invasion, many Christian leaders, patriarchs, bishops, Archbishops came to Hungary, and all of them asked to help in the same direction, not to seduce Christians in Western Europe and Europe, not to evacuate the Middle East, and not to leave the Middle East, because that culture, religion and community, indeed, will be completely eliminated. Let me give you a list of some numbers, which will be shocking for a hundred years. One will be the 1910 data, the other will be the 2010 data, and unfortunately the situation has deteriorated further since 2010. In 1910 there was still 77.5 percent of Christians in Lebanon, today, in 2010, there was 34.3 percent; in Turkey there was 21.7 percent, now 3.3 percent; in Syria there was 15.6 percent, now 5.2; in Iraq there was 6.3, now 1.4 percent; in Egypt there was 18.7, now 10.1 percent. And once again, I stress that these are figures for 2010, and that is why it is shocking that many across Europe have not noticed the danger of this, this terrible genocide that has been carried out against Christians in different countries. What we can help is clear, obviously from our own strength and our potential, we have helped a lot of people and a lot of things. We help Iraq, Syria, Lebanon, Egypt, but also Nigeria. We help the Assyrian Eastern Church, the Syrian Catholic Church, the Melchite Catholic Church, the Calved Catholic Church, the Coptic Christians, the Syrian Orthodox Church, and I also add Protestant Christian churches in the Middle East. We have renovated or rebuilt churches, hospitals, residential houses from 2.5 billion forints, so that all those who otherwise fled to the area can be resettled and moved. And it is also an equally important program for us to help young people who are asked by their leaders to come to Europe to study and then go back to Europe and serve survival through a scholarship programme. I can say that there are now many countries following Hungary in migration, followed by Italy, followed by Austria. For Austria's leaders three years ago, two years ago, the environment changed completely compared to Italy, and now we heard Chancellor Merkel change his opinion a few days ago, and he said that Hungary is defending Germany by building a fence. And this security can also show security and the way for the richer countries of Western Europe, who have what and what they can help with, because, if you think about it, either in the export of arms or in the explosion of former occupations or revolutions, they were really involved in it, which is that if one exploits a country in some way, it would be appropriate to reverse subsidies. [[Noise.]] I hope that in helping the Christian persecuted, as in border protection, Hungary has also been at the forefront of managing migration, and that all the countries that have already been behind us will help. However, the opposition has a huge responsibility, because the previous issue was not helped, and what we say Ferenc Gyurcsány did is not a solution, that for a few days in front of the cameras [[The president's ringing the bell.]] He took people in, then probably put them on the street; that's not the solution. Thank you very much for the suggestion. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes. It's constant noise. One voice: Shh!]]
u2018-06-18-24	Thank you for your help. [[Defiance.]] The final statement before the last agenda will be held, on behalf of Mr Máté Kocsis, Head of the Fidesz Group:, Budget in the European Union and Hungary. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-06-18-25	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Two budgets have been launched and debates are under way in the coming days. The Hungarian government has submitted a draft Hungarian budget last week, focusing on maintaining security, maintaining economic growth, supporting families and achieving full employment. The financial stability of Hungary must be preserved, and the will of the people must be enforced to guarantee Hungary's security, border protection and the fight against illegal migration. The government expects an economic growth of 4.1 percent by 2019, the direction of the tax reduction continues, and real earnings are projected to increase significantly in the coming year. In view of this, the rate of the social contribution tax is reduced by 2 percent, leaving the Hungarian entrepreneurs with HUF 100 billion. Support for families is one of the priority areas of the budget in some debate with my colleague Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. The government continues to support family home creation, the CSOK will receive 242 billion forints next year, and the tax relief of families with two children will be increased to 20,000 forints. The government supports not only childbearing, but also child rearing, and the cradle seats are expanding. The government will increase the amount of the general reserve and the security reserve to meet the deficit target by one and a half times, and there will be no reduction in the budget of any field, 101 billion for health and 156 billion for security next year. On the other hand, there is a budget for the Union, and if I would like to talk about the budget of the Union along the same logic quoted in the Bible, my fellow Member from Turda. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Discussions have also begun about this, about the EU's budget, which may have been submitted early, which is in conflict with the aims and intentions of the Hungarian draft, and there are several problems with it. One is that fewer resources are available in a range of areas, but only support for migration and Brussels bureaucracy is not reduced. It is a telltale sign that the draft no longer talks about border protection, but about migration and border management. We also know that with the British exit the cake has become smaller, that less money will be available to the Member States, and that the responsibility for the British exit is also the faulty policy of Brussels. But one of the most shocking things is that the proposal of George Soros, which called for a Marshall plan of EUR 30 billion, focuses on migration, and the chapter on migration in the Brussels proposal and the aforementioned chapter on border management speaks of EUR 35 billion in spookyly identical figures. They want to spend billions of euros from cohesion and social sources to integrate migrants already in Europe. The objectives of the Brussels budget proposal are contrary to the interests of Hungary and Europe, which is why we reject and, most importantly, that the budget for the period 2021-27 should be decided at an early stage simply so that their immigration aspects can be enforced as much as possible before next year's European Parliament elections. [[14.10]] We also reject the transfer of funds from smaller economies to larger ones. The proposal punishes performance and it cannot be overlooked that the V4 countries, the Central European countries, are the most disadvantaged, those Member States that have a very different view on this issue than Brussels. We are also not lucky to see the proposal also do so for those who do not maintain budgetary discipline and pursue economic policies that violate EU law. We believe that we need a fair budget in the EU, which distributes losses in a fair way. That is why we do not support proposals that are taking funds from European citizens for migrants. I'm sure you've heard of the ship that has caused a serious debate between France and Italy last week, and perhaps it's worth mentioning in the context of the budget. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] that it would be much better for Brussels if such Soros ships, which transport thousands of migrants to Europe, spent much more and would do much better, if the European Union would do better not only to finance [[The president's ringing again.]] But you would also find the regulatory barrier to the entry of the Soros ships. Thank you, Mr. President, for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-18-26	In response, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-06-18-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Apart from the Hungarian opposition, virtually few people are trying to deny the obvious fact that security has become the decisive political issue in Europe today, the most important political issue, and indeed the migration crisis in this context. This is shown by the election campaigns, the results of the elections and, by the way, the internal political debates, it is enough to look at the debate between the otherwise allied governing parties in Germany. And indeed, a meaningful symbol of this issue has become the Aquarius ship carrying migrants these days. The issue is that organisations with confused backgrounds are operating to transport immigrants to Europe, bypassing the authorities. And it is no coincidence that Malta refused to accept this ship and then refused to accept it either. The Minister of the Interior said that it is necessary to put an end to the practice of NGOs making the flow of immigrants to Europe easier as sea taxis. Even the EU Border Protection Agency, Frontex, has repeatedly criticised this practice, saying that ship operators are collaborating with smugglers. In one of their reports, they also write that there is direct evidence of this. That's what a Sicilian U.S. Attorney said earlier. We also know that more than two million immigrants have arrived in Europe since the start of the immigration crisis. It is as if more than two thousand such Aquarius ships, migrant ships, have landed in Europe. And we know that supplies are endless. I am only bringing this up because such ships, which are supposed to be carrying out humanitarian tasks, are operated by activist groups with just as confusing backgrounds as they are attacking the Hungarian government's action against immigration. And the common thing these organisations have in common is that they fundamentally weaken the defence capabilities of individual countries, they refer to humane aspects, but they practically open the gates of Europe, they support and organise immigration. It is precisely because of these activities that the Parliament is required to adopt the Stop Soros Act package as soon as possible, which would make the organisation of illegal immigration punishable. And what does Brussels do at a time like this? You have referred to this, calling on the Member States to accept such ships as soon as possible. Secondly, this is not all that we know about the details of the long-term budget, and what we know is not very cheerful, because in its current state, the EU's planned seven-year budget is a pro-immigration budget, because there is a clear intention to make room for immigration support programmes at the expense of the classic EU development resources. To make this worse, they want to take powers away from the Member States, they want to take away the right to determine who we regard as refugees and who we regard as economic immigrants. And to make the picture even more serious: the resettlement quota remains on the agenda, it is on the agenda, and if I could do so in Brussels, it would be put into effect immediately. It is very typical of how the question of borders is spoken in the draft budget: they are not actually talking about border protection, they are talking about border management. This is a very good indicator of the differences in thinking. In our view, it is not fair and it is not democratic at all that they want to approve such a serious migration package without consulting European citizens, so that when European citizens could decide on MEPs, EU leaders in 2014, none of this was said. Not a word! We do not think that Brussels is at all empowered to decide on such strategic matters over our heads. Instead, we should wait for the elections to the European Parliament in 2019, and that choice should decide what direction the European Union will take in immigration policy. This is the main stake of next year's EP election, there has never been a European election that would have been so meaty, so decisive for the future. Until then, it's still a few months before the government tries to strengthen the country's security in every possible way. The instrument for this is, on the one hand, the anti-quota amendment and the Stop Soros legislative package. There will be a vote this week, and now we will have the opportunity to stand up for Hungary. Anyone who cares about the country's security can support these proposals with a calm heart, a good heart and responsibility. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-18-28	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2018-06-18-29	Dear Parliament, He applied for the speech following the agenda today: Bence Rétvári, KDNP; Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Imre László, DK; Márta Demeter, LMP; Brenner, Koloman, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; György László Lukács, Jobbik; Péter Ungár, LMP.The following representatives applied for the speech before the agenda the day after tomorrow: László Varjú, DK; Antal Csárdi, LMP; Bertal Tóth, MSZP; Tamás Mellar, Dialogue; Ádám Mirkóczki, Jobbik; László Szászfalvi, KDNP; Csaba Hende, Fidesz. On the day after tomorrow, Sándor Székely, DK; Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik; Dániel Kárpát Z, Jobbik; Márta Demeter, LMP; István Szávay, Jobbik; István Apáti, Jobbik; Erik Fülöp, Jobbik; Dóra Dúró independent; Tamás Pintér, Jobbik; Lajos Rig, Jobbik.
u2018-06-18-30	Dear Parliament, President János Áder sent the Parliament transcripts of the appointments of State Secretary. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present these.
u2018-06-18-31	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Article 9 (paragraph 4) (j) of the Fundamental Law, as well as the XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the Government and State Secretarys of State. Law 52. On the basis of paragraph 2 of the Act, I appointed Sándor Bodó and Dr. László Sors as State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance with effect from 13 June 2018. Budapest, 8 June 2018 Sincerely: János Áder [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] Mr. László Fat, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Article 9 (paragraph 4) (j) of the Fundamental Law, as well as the XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the Government and State Secretarys of State. Law 52. On the basis of paragraph 2 of the Act, on the proposal of the Prime Minister, with effect from 23 July 2018, Dr. Péter András Sztáray was appointed State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade. Budapest, 11 June 2018 Sincerely: János Áder [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-18-32	Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of the Parliament and myself, to congratulate the Secretary of State and wish you every success in your work. Dear Parliament, The Judicial Committee is the Act on Parliament 61. In the proceedings pursuant to paragraph 7 of Section 7 of the Act, he discussed at his meeting today the 10/2014-2018 on the illustration of the previous cycle. in its general opinion No 2/2018-2022 with the same content. I.E.B. is maintained in force. The resolution can be found on the website. The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. [[14.20]] Dear Parliament, At 2:20 p.m., we move on to interpellation, immediate questions and questions. Mr. Lajos Rig, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister's Office: "Do you still have the germ of decency?" It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, the Chief of Staff of the Prime Minister, who is responsible and competent according to the subject, responds to the interpellation. The congressman has the floor.
u2018-06-18-33	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, On April 8th, anger and hopelessness took over the hundreds of thousands of people whose last hope was this election. Tens of thousands of people went to the streets to express their frustration, others at home looking for explanations, and the number of foreign job seekers increased as early as Monday morning. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] There is a huge responsibility now for everyone sitting in this room, one by one, but the biggest of those who have been authorized to run this country for another four years. Everyone knows they couldn't have won without lies, intimidation and charity, so they were able to use all the unfair means to achieve the goal, the tailor-made election system and the huge media predicament. Unfortunately, fear is a great master, and when fear prevails, nothing else matters. When one starves and lives day by day, a bag of potatoes, a package of durable food and a few thousand forints override everything else. When lies flow from everywhere several times a day, we believe it sooner or later. If I were you, every morning, when I look in the mirror, I would be incredibly ashamed that I could only win by deceiving people, using poverty and their vulnerability. However, these need to be moved on and looked forward. We cannot abandon the many Hungarian people who want to earn their living at home, raise their children; who do not want to meet their grandchildren in person twice a year; who are XXI. They want to heal in a hospital in the 21st century; they want to heal in a hospital in the 21st century. They want to receive centuries of education; those who work at home and pay taxes to provide all of this to their children; those who went abroad because they see this as becoming less and less realistic at home. So I ask the Honourable Secretary of State what the government is doing to curb migration and what it is doing to seduce our countrymen who have been displaced abroad. When do they get people's trust back? When will we be able to make it possible for all Hungarians to remember about Lake Balaton, railways, castles, castles, hotels, Hungarian land, forests, ponds and more, not Lőrinc Mészáros? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-18-34	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State, has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-06-18-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Allow me to answer your suggestions, which, if not very much, go a little beyond the usual empty insults. It is perfectly normal that, after a losing election, the opposition parties took the defeat badly, and I didn't take it well either, when the civilian forces couldn't continue to govern in 2002. But to blame it all on the electoral system, that's quite a smile. When you won the Tapolca constituency in 2015, why didn't you have a problem with the electoral system? Then why didn't he have a problem? You were celebrating victory at the time, which shows that the current electoral law gives every party the opportunity and the chance to win an election, and you know it very well. We were struck by the fact that, in his submission, he said that he was a charity, all about the results of the past years. With this in mind, unemployment has been halved, wages are being increased in several sectors, the minimum wage for skilled workers has doubled or the family support system will continue to grow, while the economy is steadily growing and even public debt is falling; it will take care of it. These may be charity to you, as you say, but we believe they are evidence of a growing country. It is not for the government, but for the millions of people who work every day for the country's growth. On the issue of Hungarians working abroad, I would like to remind you that last year more people have returned to Hungary than the number of people who have started working abroad, and if we look at the countries in the region, we see that the proportion of those who work abroad is the least in Hungary. Of course, the government has a job to do: it is his job to find a calculation for everyone who has worked abroad, but now he decides to continue at home. This is why wage raising programmes are in progress, and therefore employers' taxes are falling, so family support continues to grow, therefore the home creation programme continues, which has already helped more than 70,000 Hungarian families. But if this question is so important to you, working abroad, then why didn't you complain to your fellow Member who worked in a company that made money selling doctors abroad? Why didn't you complain to him? Here in the House, they are bitter about the so-called exodus, while they are making money on mediation abroad, that is the case. [[Dr. László György Lukács: That's not true!]] Honourable Congressman, You've also been pushing your interpellation to see who should be ashamed of you. I think, first of all, of the party that threw his former principles and goals into a trash can, which he could buy for a kilo of an oligarch, which didn't even pay the post office bill, as it has been revealed in the last few days, and if we understand well the statements of the members who have quit, in which it has even come up to the fact that they are financially in favour of the Party Együttt, against which they may have already been defined. You also mentioned the question of looking in the mirror. In this regard, it occurred to me that one of their former leaders was discussing that they had spent the money they had raised from their supporters to pay the SAO fine, spent it on something other than what they had asked for. So, I'm not suggesting you look in the mirror, but look your supporters in the eye, and tell them that Jobbik is no longer a national party, but merely a power- and money-driven organization, nothing more. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-18-36	Once again, Mr. Congressman has the floor.
u2018-06-18-37	Thank you very much for the floor. Secretary of State, a five for lies and slides, that's for sure, and I can sit down. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] That the emigration of doctors and health workers is facilitated by an organization, just as all doctors and health workers are looking for such a company and going out. [[György Balla: So it's true!]] [[György Balla: So it's true!]] So you're going to drive them out of the country. (György Balla: So it's true!) You don't think it's a matter of lying when a candidate for a Fidesz MP stands up in front of an ex-Hungary barracks, that if they don't win, the opposition will install migrants here, where there are industries and businesses? It's a lie! That's how they could win it, with nothing else: a lie and a scare. Unfortunately, I can't accept it. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-18-38	I ask the Honourable Parliament the first question: by the time the nerves are turned on, the second question is that he accepts the answer. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 113 votes to 36, with one abstention. József Tóbias, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance:. The income of 40 million per month paid at the expense of Hungarian small businesses is not extra profit? It's an address. Congressman's got the floor.
u2018-06-18-39	Thank you. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, When introducing the otherwise correct online machines, the government did not miss being a risk-free, but more profitable, let's call it a market opportunity for NER's fidesz oligarchs. The task is practically infinitely simple: you have to bill and collect a lot of money. This opportunity was used by István Garancsi, owner of Videoton, who we know is a rope friend of the Prime Minister, whose interest is Mobil Adat Kft. In 2014, 226 million, 453 million in 2015 and 553 million forints were already able to withdraw dividends, which roughly means that this company made more than 40 million forints each month. What's really going on? The government not only provides a luxury payment to the Prime Minister's good friend, but also allows small businesses to contribute 1500-2500 HUF per month to this high luxury payment, even if there is little cost for this company. [[14.30]] What's happening? One in four forints lands at the company as a net profit, which it achieves by simply connecting online machines, these companies must contribute to data traffic for 2500 HUF. What is non plus ultra is that this company, in the Ministry's decree, determines this cost as an official price. I would like to ask, Mr Secretary of State, the question of when you want to reduce these burdens for small businesses, because if this cost is official, then the Ministry may decide that this may be less, much less. If you don't want to answer that question, because we're getting a very serious political beau monde again. then for the last eight years, and what else should have been done, then do it to say that you believe it was fair in this country, that a government decision, which is otherwise correct, could include a company of its own in order to make hundreds of millions a year, at the expense of domestic small and medium-sized enterprises. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-18-40	I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Bodó.
u2018-06-18-41	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Congressman! The government decided to introduce online cash registers in October 2012. One of the main objectives of the introduction is to increase budget revenue, while limiting businesses to unfair competitive advantage by tax avoidance to a legal practice, while at the same time strengthening the competitive position of businesses that are taxed fairly. In order to reduce the financial burden, the government not only helped to switch to online cash registers, but also provided operators with two rounds of non-refundable State aid for the acquisition of new devices. In 2013-2014, HUF 2.9 billion of state aid was allocated, and in the second round, in the years 2016-2017, state aid was allocated to HUF 518 million. A total of 278 409 cash registers have been installed since 2013. According to the current state there are 194 810 non-computer-based online cash registers, so-called cash registers, and 39 795 computer-based online cash registers, with a total of 234 605 cash registers. The difference between the two figures is due to the natural rotation of the machines, which has occurred in the last nearly five years. The online cash register system has been effective since the beginning, as budget revenues have increased by using new devices alone. Taxpayers record data relating to their sales in the cash register, which immediately appear in the tax system. This provides a much wider view of the taxpayer's economic activity, as in real time, in the process of generating them, all the information generated in connection with the taxpayer's sales activities can be obtained. This has a significant preventive effect on forms of unlawful conduct, and it can now be said that many taxpayers who are not otherwise obliged voluntarily choose to use the online cash register, as this is also in his economic interest. In addition to the above mentioned impact on budgetary revenue, online cash registers contribute significantly to the whitening of the economy in other contexts. A good example of this is that it is also helpful to combat black employment if the tax authority sees that the taxpayer uses more online cash registers than the number of employees reported. Over the past 1-2 years, the system has been further developed and a new set of debtors has been involved in the use of cash registers, which also has an impact on the whitening of the economy. In terms of figures, the following are highlighted: since the introduction of the online cash register in 2014, the VAT gap has decreased by 7.2 percentage points in Hungary. Based on a study by the European Commission, the estimated VAT gap in Hungary decreased from 20.9 percent in 2013 to 13.7 percent in 2015 thanks to government measures to reduce tax avoidance. With this result, Hungary's development is indisputable. Tax evasion is half as high in our country as in the countries of the region. Since their introduction, increased international interest has clearly demonstrated that we are on the right path. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We will be able to clarify the official prices associated with online cash registers in a later reply, but we can say that we plan, if necessary, to reduce prices in this area, if possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-18-42	In return, I give the floor once again to Congressman.
u2018-06-18-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It's a shame, Mr. Secretary, that you're stuck in his paper, because the question I'm asking is that we live in the same country, and yet we speak two languages. In my first sentence, I said that the system for the introduction of online cash registers is correct, so there is no reason to say at a production meeting how and how it has looked in the last ten years. The question is, when do we get the answer to why we have to land the extra profit in private hands? Why is it, Mr. Secretary of State, that you have just said, Mr. Dömötör, your fellow State Secretary, that it is the government's job to find the calculation, then why is it, Mr. Secretary, that only Lőrinc Mészáros, Garancsi and the oligarchs near Fidesz succeed? Why can't Hungarian people get such a profit? And you didn't give me an answer, Mr. Secretary, as to why this couldn't be a better place in the register of the Hungarian State. If this is the Hungarian state [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Then you're responsible for having 500 million forints in private pockets. I can't accept the answer. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-18-44	I ask the House to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The answer was accepted by the House by 113 votes to 31, with one abstention. Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. How long will there be inciting against Gypsies in one of the Hungarian textbooks? It's an address. Congressman's got the floor.
u2018-06-18-45	Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, There's another low point in the amok run you're doing in the field of education. In the new textbook of the Institute for Education and Development, forced on schools, there is a text from 1893 that I quote, I quote, quote:. The semi-crazy cypsies cannot be brought to the proper schooling of their children. Therefore, for the sake of the well-being of citizens, the power of state must use coercive means according to this text, and even this text states that a little cruelty must be committed in the name of humanity. A free species must be brought up like a wild beast. End of subpoena. With this text, you pollute the minds of Hungarian students and spread racism. Looks like they're no longer satisfied with incitement to refugees, looking for new areas where they can whip up their anger. Moreover, the text lacks any substantive source criticism. It continues with questions such as what the author of the contemporary study saw as a token of the rise of Gypsyism, what method he proposed. This is about as if they were putting Mein Kampf into the curriculum and then asking how Hitler imagined the coexistence of different species. When the press asked your ministry, the EMMI was able to answer the questions raised in this regard so much that it was part of the history teaching that students met with contemporary texts and could discuss important topics. Which is true, of course, but it doesn't save the racist instigation hidden in textbooks at all. This story also shows how poor and unprofessional the textbooks that you force your strength to force students, teachers and schools to do are. Dear Secretary of State, On this basis, I ask how such unacceptable texts could have been included in a textbook that was handed to school students. Instead of lying against Gypsies, when will the history of Hungarian Roma, their contribution to Hungarian history and culture finally be included in the curricula and textbooks? When will you finally realize that the state's equatorial bookmaking was a dead end just like it was before 1990? When will students and schools be given back the freedom to choose textbooks? Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-06-18-46	State Secretary Bence Rétvári has the floor. [[14.40]]
u2018-06-18-47	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, What I can tell you about my answer is, I mean, the content of my answer, what you said in 2006. In 2006, you introduced a funding reform at the Public Education Policy Council and told the teachers there that this would hurt for the next few years. And I would like to say to you what I can say in response, honourable Member. I don't know, he took the trouble to take this book into his hands. [[István Szilárd Németh: No! He's got propaganda material in his hand!]] Or the newspapers were enough for you. As I followed the text in the textbook and in your reading, it seemed to me that you didn't take the trouble to look at this. In the textbook that has been used for years, this part is found in the section entitled The Situation of Gypsyism in the Age of Dualism, where the text itself analyzes literally the subject of the government's attempts to help them catch up with the education of the population, i.e. the Roma. After this, with a different effort, he first quotes a source text and then asks students questions. You can clearly see it, from the source designation of the "National Gypsy Survey" 1893, that it is an original text. Then he asks the students, calls them to discuss whether it is acceptable, is effective in applying the method he proposes, i.e. using the method in this text. Allow me to quote you to yourself, honourable Member, not so long ago, not only will it hurt what you said to teachers when you brought forward the proposals of your own party, but what you said this spring, on 27 March, you said in the election campaign, in which you said that the task of education is to raise young people who are independent and thinking, which is why you support the continuation of all competence-based programmes. So you're talking about what we're talking about, that every young person who learns, say, the age of dualism, who looks at the situation of Gypsy, should have critical thinking, that the debate culture of students should be increased, that reasoning technology should be helped, that self-thinking should be helped. Just, honourable Member, it is not a debate if the textbook describes what to think about something. The debate is that you ask questions about the source designation or after the source text, and then obviously the teacher will have this debate at school. We believe that this will enable students to argue better and better in the labour market, that in social life they can also discuss social disputes better if they do not get the answer in advance, but do so themselves in the classroom. Otherwise, there are not only texts, but if you look at this page, there are pictures, photos, diagrams beyond the source texts, which all color the contents of the textbooks. They don't look like we did when we were students, they're more concerned and colorful, so that young people can understand the historical processes better. But I guess it really hurts for you to be able to have this kind of debate with students. But that is not what the story is really about, because he doesn't worry about gypsy for a second, but, for example, when his fellow Member János Zuschlag was making jokes about our fellow Hungarians, he would have intervened immediately and wouldn't have allowed him to make such tasteless sentences. What hurts you is that Hungarian textbooks are not partly produced by foreign-owned companies, but in Hungary it is the Institute of Education Research and Development, operating within the framework of Eszterházy Károly University, which develops Hungarian textbooks. Teachers have not made any complaints in recent years, parents have not made any complaints in recent years, students have not made any complaints in recent years, even though they have made a thousand copies of this book and learned from it. They had a problem, not for them, but for politicians, for those who are not politicians, but lobbyists, who are in the interest of these partly foreign-owned companies, so that education does not become a culture of debate, but a profit, and a luxury profit. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] That they've been able to skim for years. This is the real basis for your speech. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-18-48	Once again, Mr. Congressman has the floor.
u2018-06-18-49	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I am honored that you are studying my work in such detail, even if you are repeating lies in this matter. But more importantly, you've been ruling for eight years, and I'm not asking about my secretary of state, I'm asking about yours and your government. However, it did not provide an answer to that question. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Yes, you can. I answered!]] how such a text can get in [[Intruders from the ranks of Fidesz: Gave! György Balla: That's what he was talking about, but you don't understand!]] has given no answer as to how this text will help [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] to have a fundamental and substantive debate on Roma issues. I understand, of course, and the constitutional amendment to the homeless shows that cruelty in the name of humanity is close to your thinking and is considered an example to be followed. However, back to this case, this country has already tried what production without a market is like in textbooks. It failed before 1990, it will fail now, so I cannot accept that answer. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2018-06-18-50	I ask the House, and it accepts Mr. Secretary of State's reply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 112 votes to 18, with 12 abstentions. The representative of the LMP, Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. Why is the domestic CO2 emissions increasing, why is the government pursuing a policy of a non-emission economy? It's an address. Congresswoman's got the floor.
u2018-06-18-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Which, a few years ago, even in scientific circles, was only a matter of speculation, a fact today. Even Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said that in Hungary there is a public agreement that climate change is a reality and a dangerous thing. That is true, but it must also be done to curb this process. Human activity makes a significant contribution to this process. According to global cooperation, greenhouse gas emissions should be limited to such an extent that the average temperature of the Earth's climate can increase by up to 2 degrees, but rather by 1.5 degrees Celsius, as compared to before the industrial revolution, otherwise human life chances will be threatened by the end of the century. For many years, Hungary's governments have been well away knowing that after the regime change, the collapse of the heavy industry has led to a significant reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, including CO2 emissions, so that we have been able to keep our obligations under international conventions. Therefore, it has not been possible to develop a knowledge-based, decarbonised economy and an appropriate energy and transport policy in response to the challenges, bearing in mind the country's sustainable development. While many countries have managed to reduce emissions in addition to economic growth, the government has been able to produce negative results in recent years. By 2015 everything went well, the Hungarian GHG emissions decreased by 35 percent compared to 1990, but in 2015 there was a turnaround. From 2015 onwards, our CO2 emissions increase on average by 5.6 per cent per year, but Eurostat's latest estimate of EU Member States' energy emissions in 2017 shows an increase of 6.9 per cent compared to the previous year. We are currently the sixth worst mitigating Member State. It should be added that the increase in CO2 emissions is far above the growth rate of domestic GDP of 2-4 percent during this period. Dear Secretary of State, What is the real turnaround for decarbonisation of the economy? What measures are you planning to take to create a system of incentives for renewables, regional self-sufficiency, relevant SMEs, municipalities and the population rather than hindering the use of renewable energy sources? How, when and from what source do you intend to support the implementation of the building energy programme, the modernisation of public transport? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you.
u2018-06-18-52	I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés. Here you go.
u2018-06-18-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The most important tool for reducing energy and industrial emissions in Hungary and the European Union is the emissions trading system, with the amendment of the Directive laying down the rules for the period 2021-2030 adopted in March this year. The rules applicable after 2021 and the launch of the market stability reserve in 2019 reduce the number of quotas available to installations and increase the quota price. [[14.50]] This reduces the emissions of installations under the scheme, on the one hand, and on the other hand increases the revenue from quota sales in Hungary, half of which are currently being used to support investments in the use of electromobility and energy efficiency and renewable energy in the building sector. The next step in EU legislation on climate policy was the adoption of an effort-sharing regulation in May 2018, which provides Member States with binding emission reduction targets for the transport, building, waste management and agriculture sectors by 2030. In the area of harnessing solar energy with significant domestic potential, emphasis will be placed both on industrial-scale photovoltaic systems and on small domestic-scale power plants of a decentralised nature. Within the EU, Hungary best supports renewable energy production below 50 kilowatts, helping local self-sufficiency in green electricity production in particular. According to statistics, this option has been used in recent years by SMEs, municipalities and the population, as the number and built-in capacity of small power plants of household size have increased dramatically. As part of the operating type renewable energy support, the so-called old KÁT system was allocated HUF 51.19 billion in 2016, which represents a 4% increase compared to 2015. In 2017, the METAR system supporting new green electricity production approved by the European Commission entered into force, to which those wishing to make use of this support could join between 2017 and 2026. So far, the so-called mandatory delivery aid category of the METAR system has received a grant application of HUF 9.5 billion, which represents 96 percent of the total HUF 10 billion support framework for 2017-2026, so there is a huge over-subscription, which shows the success of the programme. In line with current policy objectives, an increase in the use of renewable energy sources and an increase in energy efficiency can be expected by 2020 due, inter alia, to the resources in operational programmes. For the years 2014-20, energy developments in operational programmes will receive and will receive a total of more than HUF 760 billion of reimbursable and non-reimbursable aid. The modernisation of Community transport and the renewal of the rolling stock of railway operators have been ongoing, with the use of EU and domestic sources of procurement. In addition, the construction of the MÁV Start IC + wagon, the renewal of the fleet of regional transport centres and Volánbusz is underway, during which Volán Buszpark Kft has acquired hundreds of new vehicles. for transport centres. Please accept my reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-18-54	I will ask Congresswoman to accept the Secretary of State's reply.
u2018-06-18-55	Thank you very much. I can't accept the answer. Let me just say this quietly, Mr Secretary of State, that if our CO2 emissions increase this way, we will not have a sellable quota, despite the increase in quota on the international market. According to national experts, the increase in CO2 emissions is due to three factors. One is public transport, perhaps in one third, partly because we drive more, but also because we bring in old, inadequate cars from abroad. The other is residential heating. It is worth noting here that before 2015, there may have been a higher share of firewood use. Since the price of firewood is rising enormously, the population has changed and is using fossil fuels instead. In the third case, additional energy linked to GDP growth. If we do not want CO2 emissions to continue to increase, we should look at the causes and respond to them in a targeted way. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-18-56	Congresswoman didn't accept the answer. I ask the House to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 114 votes to 28, with 1 abstention. Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance:. When will the wages of public service workers who have missed career models be increased? It's an address. It's up to Congressman.
u2018-06-18-57	Dear Parliament, There are 200,000 people in Hungary who work in the service of the public with honor, and yet have not received a salary increase in ten years. 200,000 people in central and local government, health care, education, social care, who were condemned by Fidesz to run out of income. In ten years, their wages lost 30 percent of their value. We're entering the third Fidesz government cycle in a row, and they still haven't raised the salary. They want the increase in the salary base and the salary bill to be removed from the public discourse, as this would be in the common interest of the public sector. Obviously, Fidesz aims to prevent the common interest and joint action of the public sector with career models. The fact that career models are only a means of polishing and sharing is supported by a statement that the government's convergence programme has succeeded in an honest manner:. The wage-enhancing effect of life models introduced in the public sector will gradually run out by 2020, the extra expenditure compared to the previous year will decrease year by year, the increase in employee income expenditure will be lower than GDP. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. How does this work in practice? The Fidesz government continues to maintain the lease freeze for two years during the crisis to this day. It excludes certain public sector groups from the scope of the lease freeze, but in such a way that it is felt unfair by the alleged beneficiaries. This injustice is called career models. Some sectors have experienced noticeable wage increases, some have been able to communicate symbolic wage increases, and some have not been talking about salary increases since 2010. What we have in common is vulnerability and unpredictability. The government decides when, how much they increase their wages. Divide and conquer! The principle is familiar with the dictator's manual. Of course, they put a nice explanation behind it. One of Viktor Orbán's ideologists explained that 5 million out of the 8 million voters are beneficiaries of redistribution, and this is a huge problem; it lists everyone who does not work in the competition sector. The Dialogue does not accept the distorted world vision of the so-called Prime Minister, the confrontation of competition workers with public sector workers and inactive people. Similarly, we reject the resulting distorted economic and social policy, which destroys the remaining solidarity of Hungarian society and creates an even more divided, fragmented country. This issue concerns not only public service workers. Rapid emigration from health care, education, humiliatingly low salaries in the public sector are damaging the quality of life of all of us. The Dialogue, in agreement with the trade unions, believes that it is necessary to return to the uniform, predictable and fair public servant pay table and to raise the salary base to 60,000 forints ten years ago. My questions are: when will you raise your salary and raise your salary? Thank you.
u2018-06-18-58	The so-called Member's question [[Defiance and applause on the pro-government side.]] Mr. Sándor Bodó will answer. Here you go.
u2018-06-18-59	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government has made and will continue to make its decisions on careers and wage increases, bearing in mind the possibilities provided by the central budget. Surely you are also aware of the introduction of a teaching career in 2013, which applies first to teachers, and then to staff who are not trained in teaching and teaching. The police and defence careers launched in 2015 represented an overall average salary increase of 50 per cent over five years and also affected the employees of the National Tax and Customs Office. The career of state officials after the employees of district government offices will extend to county government offices from 2017 onwards and provide a 30 percent increase in salary. In addition, last year there was a 15% wage development in the cultural sector. The guaranteed salary of teachers, researchers and teachers in higher education increased by 15 percent in 2016 and by 5-5 percent in 2017 and 2018. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] The wage development in the health sector was carried out in four stages for the workers and in two steps for the doctors. Thus, after 26,5 percent in 2016, 12 percent from November 2017 and 8 percent from January 2018 and an additional 8 percent from November 2019. The social sector has benefited from the introduction of a differentiated sectoral bonus as from 1 January 2014 and the additional allowances have provided an average wage increase of more than 20 per cent. [[15.00]] From 1 January 16, the pedagogical career was extended to young children working in crèches with a higher education degree, and then from 1 January 17 those with secondary education also received the support. The government intends to continue with wage measures and career development in the coming years, within the limits of the possibilities provided by the budget. In this context, the salary of the government and civil servants will be settled from January 2019. In the case of government and civil servants employed in central budgetary bodies, an average salary increase of approximately 25-30 per cent is expected from 1 January 2019. Detailing rules will be drawn up during the autumn. The central budget reserve is available for HUF 51.9 billion. As is well known, since 2017, settlements have had the opportunity to achieve an increase in civil servants' wages in their own hands, and more than half of the workers already receive a salary above the minimum statutory level. At the same time, the government considers it important that, in order to prevent emigration and to perform professional tasks safely, municipalities which are unable to do so in the absence of adequate own resources, also have the means to increase the benefits of official staff. For this reason, the 2019 budget bill included a HUF 11 billion balancing fund, from which these poorer municipalities could apply for support for the wage increase. The compensatory nature of the Fund is essentially due to the fact that the funding is provided by municipalities with a higher revenue potential capable of achieving a wage increase from their own resources by increasing the level of the solidarity contribution. Thank you very much for your attention and for accepting my reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-18-60	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2018-06-18-61	Dear Secretary of State, I don't know why we're writing the question in advance if they don't answer it. It wasn't a question of how much the wages had risen, the question was that these 200,000 people in public service, who hadn't received a raise in ten years, when they were going to get a raise. You have now virtually admitted what I have said, that the tools of sharing are indeed these various sectoral career models, and they are not in their right mind to return to the single public wage table. In fact, the answer is insufficient, and what could be expected again is to be passed on to the municipalities, who do not have enough resources to pay the public service employees who work with them. Even if you give me a few billion forints of support for this, it will be a little short, so I can't accept your answer. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause in the dialogue.]]
u2018-06-18-62	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you to accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 113 votes in favour, 30 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, representative of Fidesz, has submitted an interpellation to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade:. Europe, is it finally defending its borders? It's an address. Mr Zsolt Csenger-Zalán has the floor.
u2018-06-18-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Since the start of the migration crisis in 2015, we have been listening to the need to manage migration, because there is no way to stop it, and the borders cannot be protected. Remember, this was the position of many Western European governments, and this was also the position of the Hungarian opposition, even though they have been trying to deny themselves at that time. In just two months, however, Hungary has built the southern border barrier, which has made it virtually impossible for migrants to sneak into the country in secret. Turns out boundaries can be protected, but they just have to want to. After that, it was no longer possible to say that the common borders were indefensible. So they changed the lie a little bit, and from here on out, they said it was the sea borders that can't be protected. In spite of Australia's ability to do this, protecting its much longer sea borders, this is supposed to be impossible in the case of Europe. Meanwhile, hundreds of immigrants in the Mediterranean have repeatedly turned to a ship operated by one of the so-called non-governmental organisations for the transport of migrants to Europe. It is estimated that at least 40 percent of African immigrants arriving in Italy by sea last year were transported by these organisations, which at least raises suspicion of cooperating with smugglers. The Open Society Foundation of György Soros has, of course, given its support for this organization, which is no wonder, since it is essentially working to implement the Soros plan. Now, however, something seems to change, the Italian Government has finally had enough of this, and last week, the Minister of the Interior forbade the migrant ship from landing. He stated that the new Italian Government will put an end to the practice that these organisations, as State Secretary Csaba Dömötör has just said, should transport illegal immigrants to Europe as a kind of taxi. Needless to say, the liberal press and the Soros organizations immediately attacked the Italian government. Dear Secretary of State, With the return of the migrant ship, Italy has demonstrated that maritime borders can be protected and that smuggling can be stopped. Does that mean a turnaround? Does this mean that Europe finally recognises that it must and can protect itself and its common borders? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-18-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Tamás Menczer, State Secretary, responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-06-18-65	Thank you very much. Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Perhaps it is worth starting from the fact that migration is a matter of principle. The Hungarian position in principle is that migration is bad and dangerous, but it must be stopped and stopped. On the other hand, there is another position; that this other one may be taken away or rather called principleless, I would rather not open this parentheses now. It may also be important to recall that in 2015 the Hungarian government said the same thing today. We did not need to change our position, and this is a great treasure in Europe. We are pleased to hear that more and more people are looking for it today, and more and more people are trying to form the axis of the fight against illegal immigration. At the same time, it is important to emphasise that Hungary was the axis of those fighting illegal immigration in 2015. We were alone, we received many criticisms for this, we can remember the abusive words of the former Austrian Chancellor, the former Romanian Prime Minister, the former Croatian Prime Minister. They're both out of office today, maybe not by accident. Then, of course, our V4 associates joined us, and today more and more of them are joining us. The facts justify us. It is enough to think of the most important thing: 29 terrorist attacks have been committed in Europe in the last three years. Over 330 innocent Europeans have been murdered and more than 1300 wounded. Migration is therefore a matter of national security. Anyone who doubts that doesn't face reality. It may also be worth saying half a sentence about, in fact, from the point of view of the essence, no matter what, we have seen several types of terrorists, even those who came in in in the current wave, someone who previously, the point is that he couldn't integrate, he didn't accept European values, he actually wanted to kill European people, and unfortunately in many cases he did. We also welcome what you said about the decisions of the Italian Government. The Italian Government has demonstrated the inadequacy of Brussels policy: it is possible to close the maritime borders. That's what we've been saying since 2015. If the Australians have managed to close a much larger water barrier, then Europe can also succeed. It's just a matter of will. From the beginning, the Hungarian Foreign Minister and the Hungarian Government say that if more ships are needed, more people are needed, more technical resources are needed, this must be ensured, but the maritime borders must be closed. Because the country and the continent that cannot defend its borders is, in our view, no longer a country or a continent. However, part of the Hungarian position is that no illegal immigrant can enter Hungary either through the border or through Brussels. So we're still fighting the mandatory resettlement quota. [[15.10]] And that danger hasn't passed. I would like to remind the European Parliament's latest resolution, which includes everything the Hungarian Government is fighting against, including the import, distribution of migrants, easier family reunification, group resettlement and punishment for those who do not ask for it. So we're still fighting this. That is why it is important that next year there will be elections to the European Parliament, so we expect no decision to be taken on illegal immigration in any of the bodies in Brussels until Europeans can tell us what they think about this. György Soros may just be closing a sentence, he mentioned. György Soros, we may be able to say that we know his perverse vision, the more beautiful a country is, the more beautiful a continent is, the more colorful it is, the more multicultural. We value a homogeneous and secure, orderly society and orderly coexistence more than that, and yet we are talking about a speculator, always taking out more than he puts in. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-18-66	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2018-06-18-67	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply, and I must say that it is unacceptable that some of the European countries are also trying to risk the security of all other countries by openly or enveloped in their support of migration. It is a great pleasure for me, for us, that the world has changed a lot, as Mr. State Secretary said, because the Austrian Chancellor of that time criticized Hungary very harshly in 2015. Today's Austrian chancellor, as you mentioned, spoke of a kind of axis, of course he got the criticism for it. I am very pleased that Hungary was finally right on this issue and that more and more people are supporting us. Thank you, I accept your answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-18-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources. It's an address. Mr László György Lukács has the floor.
u2018-06-18-69	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Yeah, we go to the worst pharmacy ever. Not because the pharmacies are in such a state, since they are modern, well-built rooms, but because the Hungarian patient suffers the most from what is seen in drug prices. Drug financing has been changing since 2012, in which the private sector has come to the fore, i.e. people have to spend more of their own pockets and public funding is being reduced. Examples of other European countries show that it is possible to maintain the level of funding, such as the level of two thirds in which the state takes on more, people have to pay less out of their pockets. Compared to this, the situation in Hungary is that the ratio is 50/50, i.e. tax-paying citizens have to reach into their pockets in pharmacies at least as much as the state puts in support. And what a problem this is, my fellow Members, some numerical data showing what this phenomenon is. Nearly 40 percent of our compatriots over 16 years of age are suffering from at least one chronic or persistent disease, and as we advance in age, this is growing, and even in the majority of the elderly, where they have more chronic and persistent diseases than just one. In terms of drug consumption, 60 percent of the consumption in both prescription and non-prescription medicines is made up of people over 60 years of age. It is clear, therefore, that in our country, the system places a huge burden on older people who go to the pharmacy and replace medicines there, but also on those who suffer from chronic and persistent illness. To give an example of how different the situation is in other parts of Europe, in Slovakia, EUR 209, the state spends almost EUR 210 per person on pharmaceutical support, this is hardly reaching EUR 120 in Hungary. It is not enough that the average wages are higher there; Hungarian patients need to reach even deeper into their wallets. According to some calculations, the Hungarian state saves HUF 20 billion by keeping the drug support at this level, i.e. it takes HUF 20 billion out of taxpayers' pockets and asks that they pay it for them at the register. But, Mr. Secretary, there's something down here. Not long ago, the government adopted or applied the solution in which it put the medicines used to treat cancer, cancer, into a blindly-licensed procedure, with which many were excluded from this therapeutic option. Here we stand, where Minister Kasler has the opportunity as an oncologist to break out of this cage and break out of this interpretation framework, so it makes sense to ask questions that arise. Does the government plan to convert drug subsidies so that patients do not have to finance this 20 billion forints from their own pockets? Does the Ministry or Minister plan to review a very disadvantaged procurement procedure for cancer patients, with which perhaps thousands of people can stay out of available therapy and impose a new burden on families? Dear Secretary of State, I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-18-70	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-06-18-71	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The government was driven by the aim of making patients get the medicine as cheap as possible, and, if possible, buy it in Hungarian-owned pharmacy stores, not in pharmacy stores. That is why we succeeded, precisely thanks to the blind bidding system, which you have now confused with a later purchasing system, we introduced the blind system in 2012 to significantly reduce patients' drug spending. In the first year of 2012, the patients paid HUF 7.5 billion less for the medicines, but this decreased even further in the subsequent years. In the following year, the patients had to pay 2.5 billion less, and in 2014 they left another HUF 2 billion less in the pharmacy. So this method was successful, because the pharmaceutical manufacturers themselves, who competed with different active ingredients on these blinds, did not see the bid of the other, they did not see the amounts offered by the other, so they were much more promised, and thus managed to lower the amounts payable by the patients. For example, in the case of peripheral arterial disease, where a substance containing cilostazole is prescribed, the price of this product decreased by HUF 918. In the case of high blood pressure diseases, there are medicines that have reduced the price by HUF 526. With cholesterol-lowering drugs, we could see a reduction of HUF 354 in one type, but there are cholesterol-lowering medicines that have decreased from HUF 863 to HUF 84, and some of them have dropped from HUF 1076 to HUF 84, if you look at the price. In the case of antihypertensives, you mentioned a 72 percent decrease in large population diseases, from HUF 1156 to HUF 322, but in the case of two other products there was a 70 percent and 58 percent drop, as the patients paid less. The gastric acid-lowering medicinal products had a fall of 61 and 88 percent, and antidepressants had a fall of 50-72 percent. This is how much less the patients have to pay, and there are two reasons for this: on the one hand, we have been able to increase the support not only of medicines but also of medical aids year after year, but, more importantly, that this new system is not based on the interests of pharmaceutical manufacturers. It doesn't look at how drug manufacturers can cash in as much profit as possible, but at what system the patients can reduce the amount of money that patients leave at the pharmacy to the lowest level in order to benefit patients and, of course, the Hungarian state. The other issue you have mentioned, which we have repeatedly denied here in Parliament, but I would be happy to do once again if that is necessary, and that is the amount of money for cancer and the budget for medicines here. Since 2010, the amount spent on the care of cancer patients has been increased by 60 percent, which is now close to HUF 180 billion. What you referred to more specifically is the amount of funding for cancer medicines used to treat cancer, which was HUF 57 billion in 2010, honourable Member, please, because at that time you will not say otherwise, which we raised to HUF 97.8 billion last year, and this year is expected to exceed HUF 110 billion. We raised it from HUF 57 billion to HUF 110 billion and continued to grow, this year the proportion of patients with innovative medicines increased by several hundred. And in the meantime, honourable Member, in the pharmacy we have increased the ownership of Hungarian pharmacists to over 50 percent, so if you go into a pharmacy, you will finally enter a pharmacy that is not owned by foreign investors, but is owned by Hungarian pharmacists. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-18-72	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor. [[15.20]]
u2018-06-18-73	Mr. Secretary, I cannot accept your answer, not even because I understand you think the patients have benefited. And compared to that, it looks like it's a completely different reality, and you think it's good for you, and you may know it alone, but they don't sense it. They feel that it may be worse to be sick in Hungary than in the surrounding countries. It is not enough to buy medicines with expensive prices, and to be able to buy medicines with a high price compared to the neighbouring countries, it is not enough that waiting lists and waiting lines are long in individual clinics, especially if a prime minister comes in and gets in line, it is not enough that in Hungary there is no way to know how hospital infections are, it is not enough that in Hungary the patients have to deal with gratuity money, but they also have to deal with the fact that you are constantly tricking them here with numbers. The Hungarian patients see one thing for sure: the drug purchased at the pharmacy is very expensive, and they have to pay much more than all the other countries around us. However, Hungarian patients deserve access to medicines cheaply, supported by the state, and therefore I have no intention of accepting their answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-18-74	Congressman, thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you to accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 115 votes in favour, 28 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, László Szászfalvi, a representative of KDNP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:. What will the Agricultural Ministry focus on in the field of environmental protection? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-06-18-75	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Sustainable development is a process of development that meets the needs of the present without reducing the ability of the future generation to meet their own needs. One of these is, if not, the most important area of environmental protection. The government has made significant progress in the field of environmental protection in recent years, progress has been made in a number of areas, such as Habitats programmes, environmental protection, development of national parks, climate protection in the context of environmental protection, energy efficiency programmes. In the current EU financial cycle, you can spend more than HUF 60 billion on portfolio conservation improvements, which can improve the environmental status of nature at more than 100,000 hectares. In recent years, the environmental and energy efficiency operational programme, the COHEP and the competitive Central Hungary operational programme, VEKOP, have launched a conservation development package with 92 specific projects worth HUF 38 billion. The transformation and sustainability of the waste management system in Hungary has been a significant step in terms of environmental sustainability. There are still parts of the system and regulation that are worthy of further development and fine-tuning. In recent years, the government has paid considerable attention to the issue of food safety, which is important to maintain. I also consider it important to continue the measures launched in the field of environmental health. We have the right to rely on the continuation of these measures, since in the new Ministry of Agriculture an independent State Secretary has been established for the field. Dear Secretary of State, In this regard, I ask you: what will the Agricultural Ministry focus on in the field of environmental protection during this government cycle? I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-18-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary András Rácz responds to the interpellation. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2018-06-18-77	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As you have said, I would like to emphasise first of all that we want to give back the proper weight, rank and dignity of the environment in the newly created agricultural purse. As a first step, we have created an independent State Secretary for the field, including an independent Deputy State Secretary for Nature and Environment. We would also like to prevent the previous unfounded criticisms of the government that would put environmental protection in the background. A few words about our most important plans. Firstly, we will start the development of the National Environment Programme V for the period after 2020, and then we will renew the National Environmental Technology Innovation Strategy, and the Action Plan for the Circular Economy is under preparation, with a view to achieving coherence between environmental and economic aspects. Air quality will be a priority issue directly affecting the population in the future, so we have started to develop a national air load reduction programme. In the context of the review of the national air pollution measurement network, we plan to implement a national sampling and measurement programme, which will give us a more accurate picture of the country's air quality. Renewal of the regulation of strategic noise maps and noise reduction action plans is also an important task. The government has provided resources to replace the missing noise maps as soon as possible. As regards the 29 municipalities concerned and the busiest transport lines, we have already started the noise mapping work. With regard to the national park directorates, there may not be such a strong state conservation organisation anywhere else in Europe, their area of operation covers the entire territory of the country, they manage 300 thousand hectares of protected state land, and nearly 2,000 of our employees work in the state conservation system. In many regions, national park directorates are now the largest employers and national parks are also the largest depositaries of Hungarian ecotourism. Half of the 700 ecotourism facilities registered in Hungary, some 350, are operated by them, with 1.6 million registered visitors per year. Of course, this is only the number of registered visitors, many more people visit our national parks. The number of children participating in the environmental education programme alone is around 40 thousand per year. We are also opening a new chapter in the field of landscape protection, which is closely linked to environmental protection and nature conservation. We will create the first domestic legislation governing landscape protection. As regards conservation of genetic resources, conservation of the genetics or genes of wild animals and of our agricultural livestock and plants will be a priority. The implementation of the genetic conservation strategy adopted by the government last year will begin. We are convinced that Hungary is on the right track towards environmental protection and the achievement of environmental objectives by coordinating government measures and further strengthening public thinking, so I ask for my answer. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-18-78	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I ask the congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2018-06-18-79	Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for your reply. In recent years, in my constituency countless environmental, nature conservation and energy efficiency programmes have been implemented and launched for billions of HUF. These facts, as well as the concept, objectives and government commitment presented by the Secretary of State, provide us with a guarantee that these programmes will continue in the coming years, and I therefore accept your reply. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-18-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, It's 15:29, we've reached the end of the interpellation negotiations, and now we're continuing our work by discussing immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Márton Gyöngyösi, a representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:, How credible is the government's policy? It's an address. Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, has appointed a response to the urgent public task. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2018-06-18-81	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr President, but I've been waiting for Prime Minister for the third week, and I'm waiting for this week on one leg. [[15.30]]
u2018-06-18-82	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. [[Noise.]] Dear Parliament, Before I give the floor to the next speakers, I would like to ask my fellow Members to leave the Chamber quietly, if possible, or to take their seats. Thank you for your understanding. Dear Parliament, Péter Jakab, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How long will we be a slave market in Europe? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr Gergely Gulyás Prime Minister's Head of the Prime Minister's Office in response to an urgent public task. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2018-06-18-83	I accept, thank you very much.
u2018-06-18-84	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-06-18-85	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, In my first speech to Parliament, I said that if Lőrinc Mészáros were to be wealthy at the same rate as he is now, he would be the richest man in the world by 2024 and Hungarian was the poorest, since let's say the corrupt Fidesz elite is fatting on the Hungarian people's money, and this was not a pun. [[Lajos Korózs intervenes. Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] As far as corruption is concerned, unfortunately, according to international statements, Hungary is currently fighting Bulgaria for the title of the EU's most corrupt state, while, in terms of wages, Hungary is in total 33rd place in the 35-person field of the OECD Member States, so that Viktor Orbán can understand this is roughly the dropout. Today we are talking about Czechs, Poles and Slovaks making more money than Hungarians, so much so that a lot of people from Borsod, for example, go to Slovakia to work, because it is already worth it. And do you know who's coming? Ukrainians, because these hunger wages are almost worth working for, or when it is not worth it to them, the Pakistani and Vietnamese guest workers will come, as the Fidesz economic circles of Viktor Orbán have already pegged it. So your economic policy brings you here, which does not regard the Hungarian worker as being valued, who must be paid, but as a common, cheap slave next to the line. We can remember that not so long ago, Viktor Orbán advertised Hungary in front of Saudi investors to make an investment here, because our labour force is remarkably cheap compared to our quality, so just like in the slave market: it is strong, it eats little, buy it! [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] You brought this country here. With all due respect, what do you intend to do to ensure that Hungary does not become a slave market for Europe and the world? What do you intend to do to reach the Visegrád countries' wage level as soon as possible? What do you want to do to make sure that you do not get rich in Hungary, but those who [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Do they work decently? Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-18-86	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister.
u2018-06-18-87	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, We have already known the Member from his first speech as someone who is not particularly disturbed by the facts, but who is willing to insult his political opponents in Parliament, and in his second speech he did not deny our image of your expected representative's activities during the first. [[It's an intervention in Jobbik's ranks.]] The fact is that in the last year it is enough to extract the data of the Hungarian Central Statistical Office, there has been a 13 percent increase in wages in Hungary, a similar increase in wages has never occurred in Hungary since the change of regime. This year, too, will be a significant increase in wages, and economic growth has continued for six years, and wage increases are continuing in Hungary. In comparison, it is worth adding, perhaps because of the poorest, that the minimum wage has increased by 88 per cent in eight years and the guaranteed minimum wage has doubled since 2010. Of course, there are different levels of development in the country, and it is true that development policy must be adapted accordingly, but you give an example of Miskolc and its region, and vice versa: in Győr, Slovaks go and work. We also know that we have never had as many people in Hungary since the change of regime as they are working on, and we also know that in many places there is already a labour shortage, unemployment is 3.8 percent, but this is a pleasant problem compared to when we took over government with 12 percent unemployment. I therefore believe that if you do not believe us, but you are looking at the data of the HCSO, you clearly see that today it is this region that is growing the most in the European Union, and Hungary is now keeping pace with the Visegrád states. We have a competitive disadvantage, and the competitive disadvantage is the result of the eight-year-old destructive economic policy that has marked the eight years ahead. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. It's an intervention in Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2018-06-18-88	Thank you very much for the Minister's reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2018-06-18-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I thought Andersen was dead, but apparently not, he's here in Parliament. You are talking about a record increase here, and the facts show that workers' poverty has doubled in Hungary since 2010; according to the present position, every third Hungarian countryman lives below the minimum living standards, and today's news is that Romania has already passed over Hungary in terms of wage increases, so we know very well what the reason for the lack of wage increases is: to steal the money, this must be said. You have to give back the stolen money, and then you'll have money to raise your wages. And from this point of view, I can only offer you the Romanian example: in Romania, they prefer to use the institution of confiscation of property against the thieves to obtain money for wages, for example, but where more recently, a Romanian minister was sentenced to six years in prison, because from a tender he asked back 10 percent, not 30, not 40, only 10, and now he can go to prison. When are you leaving? [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-18-90	Mr. Gergely Gulyás is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor, Minister.
u2018-06-18-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It is clear from this speech that Andersen should not be sought in the KSH [[It's an intervention in Jobbik's ranks.]] but in the ranks of the Jobbik faction. The unique slide that you have been able to do here in terms of economic growth figures shows how you and your party dealt with the facts, as the fact is that Hungary has produced the third best result in terms of economic growth in the European Union. Indeed, from another base, from a lower base, Romania has increased slightly, and Lithuania or the Romanian and Lithuanian economic growth has been at least higher, so the third best result is ours from the 28 EU Member States, which I think is a very good result. And we also clearly see that this economic growth is the basis for wage increases, and we also see that in Hungary wage increases have taken place in recent years that have led to economic performance. It wasn't like that before either. For this reason, I think that if something can only be said with recognition of falling public debt, rising wages, basic central bank rate of less than 1 per cent, it is precisely Hungarian economic policy. I would also like to say to the Member that Jobbik will certainly continue to criticize economic policy in the coming years, but I do not think that this will change the fact that the long-term prospects are so good that voters, on the other hand, perceive what is real, even if you fail to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-18-92	I thank the Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, Mr István Hiller, representative of the MSZP, Vice-President, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "The Research Network of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences." The Prime Minister has appointed Mr Gergely Gulyás Prime Minister's Head of the Prime Minister's Office in response to an urgent public task. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2018-06-18-93	I accept, Mr. President.
u2018-06-18-94	You have the floor, Mr. Vice President.
u2018-06-18-95	Mr President, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! Your Honour, Minister. I would like to ask you about the government decision on the research and/or institutional network of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. I propose to discuss this issue not as an actual political scandal, but as a decision that significantly affects the present and near future of Hungarian scientific life, Hungarian research and, by the way, Hungarian higher education. Let us agree that in the past 70 years there has been a very significant intellectual potential, very significant domestic and international research results and I would like to add that there has been a very significant material and institutional accumulation in the research network thanks to the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. The present decision, which is presented as a budget proposal, but there is no living researcher in this country who negotiates and thinks about it as a budget proposal, raises the question, Minister, that the government does not wish to expand beyond its power to subject so far independent Hungarian academic research to government control. [[15.40]] My former colleagues and many of my former students, my students, are working in various research institutes of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences today, and I can tell you that everyone, regardless of their party standing, takes this decision with reservations, does not consider it right, sees it as a mutilation of independence and the freedom of Hungarian scientific research. No one thinks it's a financial decision. Everyone thinks that the government wants to invest in the Hungarian scientific research and institutional network. I'm asking you, Minister, if that's how you see it. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-18-96	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister.
u2018-06-18-97	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Vice President, The surprising answer I can give is that we do not see it this way, the amounts that can be spent on research and development have increased in recent years and will continue to increase. For innovation funds, the target is to reach 1.8 percent of GDP by 2020 for R &amp; D budgetary resources. On the other hand, if I understand the outcome of the consultation that I was not present on, and that came about between Minister Palkovic and the President of the Academy of Sciences, there was agreement between the parties who were debating each other that, in the case of a country as large as Hungary and such an expanding country, it is good to have a single direction for innovation in R &amp; D in the case of large states, which is still not comparable to that of large states. There's a Ministry of Innovation. The autonomy of the Academy of Sciences is guaranteed by the Fundamental Law. The aim and intention is to use these sources of innovation with the involvement of the Academy, but the Ministry of Innovation can have a decisive say in this. That is why I hope, and obviously that is why Minister Palkovic and President of the Academy of Sciences agree with each other, that in the world of Hungarian development, research and science management, the government and the Academy will be able to take a united position and that innovation resources can be used accordingly in the next period. Nothing else is served by the amendment, only and only this. Moreover, its organisational independence and its budget are not affected by the budget bill at the Academy. Thank you. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-06-18-98	Thank you very much, Minister. I'll give the vice president the floor in return. Here you go.
u2018-06-18-99	I hardly believe it. As a matter of fact, it would be little that I hardly believe it, but among the leaders of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, among its elected officials, I could count their entire lives on one hand among the people in scientific research, how many of them are who take the Minister's opinion, because they believe that this is not simply a financing, it is not simply an economic, it is not simply a budgetary step, it is a violation of the freedom and independence of Hungarian research. In fact, it is even assumed that there is an intention, which, by the way, concerns the management of the future affairs of the land network that extends from Martonvásár, let us say, to Mátra, which is no longer scientific research at all, but the accumulated material potential I was talking about. I ask and propose that we represent this, that this proposal be taken out of the budget, amended, leave the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and scientific research in Hungary!
u2018-06-18-100	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr. Gergely Gulyás is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2018-06-18-101	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, At the moment, the funds available for innovation, R &amp; D in terms of the Hungarian state as a whole or the overall budget look like higher education institutions can spend more than HUF 29 billion on state aid for R &amp; D. There is a National Science Research Fund programme that allows the translation of nearly HUF 13 billion into R &amp; D [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó keeps interrupting.]] and in the research of the Academy of Sciences, HUF 28.1 billion is used. The question is that these amounts can be used more effectively if, in the decision to do so, those who decide on research and development in different places in Hungary today have to agree and agree. Our view is that the answer to this question is yes. Practice will prove which one of us is right. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-06-18-102	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr.Zsolt Gréczy, representative of DK, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: Mr.Orbán does not have to comply with the laws? It's an address. The Prime Minister asked Mr Gergely Gulyás, the Prime Minister, to reply to his urgent public task. I ask the congressman, do you accept the person of the responder, or personally from the Prime Minister...
u2018-06-18-103	I accept the identity of the responder.
u2018-06-18-104	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-06-18-105	Mr. President. Dear House, As we know, the Orbán government has created the possibility for companies to give their corporate tax to the Hungarian football clubs. The biggest beneficiary of these would, of course, be Viktor Orbán's favourite team, the Academy of Reinforcing in Felcsút, which, in turn, has received 20 billion forints of corporate tax to be fooled around in front of 32 viewers in the immediate vicinity of Viktor Orbán's house. It's a country like this, it's a government like this, where it can happen. Therefore, the Democratic Coalition has chosen the solution to try to sue the publicity of these papers and data. The miracle of miracles has also occurred that the Curia has decided to make it final once again and loudly: the Curia has finally decided that these data should be published. Of course, the academy in the Highway hasn't published this data since then, as to how much money was spent. This is also interesting, because after that we wrote a letter to Lőrinc Mészáros, the stróman of Viktor Orbán, who replied in his own hand that he could not give these data, because the EMMI asked him for these documents. Now that means that Lőrinc Mészáros gets rid of certain papers without making a photocopy of them. The other option is that the EMMI hides the papers of Viktor Orbán's favourite team and thus provides protection for Lőrinc Mészáros. Therefore, the Democratic Coalition, if it is customary to talk about a rule of law in this Parliament, in this House, is asking for and even demanding that these papers be issued immediately. The Hungarian people, as you say, have a right to know what this 20 billion HUF has gone to with their money, especially after hearing that we are discussing a much smaller amount of money around the Academy of Sciences. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2018-06-18-106	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister.
u2018-06-18-107	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, As I understand it, there was a lawsuit in progress between a representative of the Democratic Coalition and the Puskás Academy to disclose data of public interest. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches: Slip...]] In the proceedings, a judgment was delivered. The implementation of this, I assume, is in progress. What I don't understand is what the government has to do with this. In what way am I involved, in this sense, in what form can this decision and its implementation be placed under government authority? [[Gergely Harvester: You have the paper...]] Or the other option is that you would like to ask me for counsel in this form, Congressman. This is not possible because the rules on conflicts of interest have been tightened since 2014, so my membership of the Chamber is currently suspended. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-06-18-108	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Gréczy in return. Here you go.
u2018-06-18-109	Thank you, Mr. President. The situation is tragic because I asked you a question: give me that piece of paper! In your ministry, Mr. Retvári's Ministry, these papers, at least that's what Lőrinc Mészáros claims. I'll give you this piece of paper, and if I say it once again, the final decision of the Curia has forced you to do so. It's 20 billion forints, that's not a small amount of money, that's 20,000 million forints. I would just like to point out that this is the Puskás Academy, where there are no Hungarian football players on its starting team. It is just one of today's data that the Hungarian young football player from the Puskás Academy spent the least minutes of play in the Hungarian NB I. You spend taxpayers' money on migrant football players, just 20 billion forints. I can't accept the answer. [[It's a rare applause on the opposition side. Intercom from Jobbik's benches: Slip...]]
u2018-06-18-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. You have the floor, Minister.
u2018-06-18-111	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Thank God, in that case, you don't have to accept my answer, because that's interpellation, and that's still counseling. [[Zsolt Gréczy: We've been waiting for him for a year! Interventions from the benches of opposition parties.]] So if there is a final judgment, then anyone will then tell you in what form the final judgment can be enforced. As far as Taós grants are concerned, even the European Union did not dispute their legality or effectiveness, since the programme could start operating after the agreement with them. [[15.50]] Overall, in 2015, more than 13 thousand companies supported sport and reinforcements by HUF 107 billion, and we believe it is right to make companies and companies interested in supporting sport and good social goals. [[Interviews from the opposition, including Dániel Z. Karpát: And how many have been in the national team since then?]] And in the specific case, I can only say that very many people can give advice for the execution of the final judgment, and I am not yet temporarily. There might be a time like that again. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-18-112	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Szél, Erzsébet Schmuck and Lóránt Keresztes, representatives of LMP, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Who does the government agree with? It's an address. Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás asked the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office to respond to an urgent public task. I ask Congresswoman, do you accept the person who is responding, or do you ask the Prime Minister for an answer personally?
u2018-06-18-113	Thank you very much. We'll wait for the Prime Minister.
u2018-06-18-114	Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: It's an address. Minister Sándor Farkas has appointed Minister of State to respond to an urgent public mission. I ask Congresswoman, do you accept the person who is responding, or do you ask the Minister for the answer personally?
u2018-06-18-115	Yeah.
u2018-06-18-116	You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2018-06-18-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Between 1970 and 1990, scattered asbestos was widely used in Hungary, including for thermal and sound insulation, as fireproof material for both residential and public buildings. But it was very soon discovered that it caused serious respiratory diseases, asbestososis, lung cancer, and eventually death. There is no low concentration that would not pose a risk after 15-35 years of incubation. For this reason, the national detection of buildings containing scattered asbestos and the development and implementation of the asbestos removal programme started in 1999 on behalf of the wallets responsible for environmental protection and health. However, the program has not progressed in the last eight years, although tens of thousands of adults and children still live or work in buildings that contain scattered asbestos, which are becoming increasingly dangerous due to inadequate renovation, lack of asbestos removal, such as Veszprém, Győr, Tatabánya or the National Széchényi Library. In Hungary, however, the European directive on the elimination of the pollution caused by asbestos is also mandatory. By 2030, the national waste management plan set out the removal and professional disposal of approximately 1.6 million tonnes of asbestos in various forms. However, for the sake of people's health, this should be brought forward. Secretary of State, I ask you: when and what kind of state aid and support can citizens and public institutions, other than their own failure, be expected to be in danger? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2018-06-18-118	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Farkas. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-06-18-119	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to thank the Member for raising her question once again on the environmental and health problems of asbestos. Asbestos has been preferred to be used for several decades in the Hungarian construction industry for various insulations, casings and, last but not least, even in the automotive industry. Unfortunately, the health-damaging effect of asbestos, on the other hand, results in a very rapid form of lung cancer, which is recognised and demonstrated relatively late. The most dangerous asbestos product for human health is the so-called scattered asbestos, which you have been talking about, as well as other asbestos cement products. According to our current data, the disposal of these would cost more than HUF 300 billion, which exceeds the Hungarian budget. However, our wallet considers it important to address the risks posed by asbestos, so it set up a working group to develop a programme to ensure the reception and professional placement of asbestos-containing shale waste from the population in the previous cycle. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] He also held professional consultations with the Public Security Association, which brings together public service organisations. The working group assessed the national situation of landfilling, permits, various capacities and landfills containing asbestos. The survey found that it was extremely difficult and that there was a situation that was not really supported by the population and that the population did not take this asbestos waste to these designated locations. A draft programme has therefore been prepared for the government to propose a solution for the adoption of hazardous construction waste containing asbestos on an accessible basis. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Thank you. I'll pick it up later, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-18-120	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return.
u2018-06-18-121	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I heard from experts that it would cost less than 300 billion forints. However, if you have such a number, it is obviously necessary to review it. However, on behalf of the tens of thousands of young people and children, I am asking the wallet to take steps as soon as possible to ensure that the funds, the amounts that could launch this programme are already shown in the next year's budget. It is obviously necessary to start an appropriate programme, to update the survey of these buildings, to extend it to public buildings, to establish an adequate professional and construction exemption background and to provide information. We very much hope that these works will start at a very rapid pace. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-18-122	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-06-18-123	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I have to do a very delicate correction because the agricultural purse will not be responsible for the long-term settlement of asbestos-free sites. Therefore, on the basis of the division of government labour, the tasks and competences for the demolition of asbestos-containing structures, the removal of their products from the building, and other activities relating to asbestos removal will be shared among the areas concerned. So it's not really the agricultural purse, it's gonna be an environmental secretary of state. Of course, the placement, the selection, yes. This will be a mutually cooperative task. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-18-124	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: Why does the government not support Hungarian people with EU funds? It's an address. Minister Sándor Bodó asked the Secretary of State to reply in response to an urgent public task. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2018-06-18-125	Thank you, I accept.
u2018-06-18-126	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-06-18-127	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In a last November EU audit, the European Commission found irregularities in more than 40 EU investments in Hungary, so it can claim back most of the money allocated to them, nearly HUF 100 billion. Among the problem proposals was the priority building energy development of public buildings, originally known as the environmental and energy efficiency operational programme. I highlight this programme because it expressed its concern for Hungary as early as 2015 and 2016. Not because we knew there could be irregularities, but because we considered the whole concept to be a failure to make non-refundable aid available to the public, but to renovate government buildings. The EU originally set out this programme to modernise the energy efficiency of homes, not the state. Now it turns out that, like so many other EU sources, this does not help the lives of Hungarian people, neither did Hungarian people get this money here. For the Dialogue, it remains unclear why the public could not benefit from this programme, why they were not helped by the government with EU funds. My question is, therefore, how does the government plan to adapt this programme by 2020, if possible after the EU inquiry, if this ship has unfortunately left, it plans to transform this programme from 2020 onwards and finally make the renovation money available to the public. Thank you for your reply. [[16.00]]
u2018-06-18-128	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister of State Sándor Bodó; I also ask my fellow Members here on the left to continue their discussions, preferably quietly or outside the hall. [[To Dr. Andrea Varga-Damm and Lajos Rig, who consulted her colleague in the box:]] Congresswoman, I am speaking to you, if you would be so kind as to conclude this special consultation, if possible, in the Chamber. Thank you. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-06-18-129	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The question of why the government does not support the Hungarian people with EU funds is a very simple and short answer: it supports them. They were also supported in the previous EU cycle when basically human infrastructure improvements were made, and they were also needed, because the municipalities did not have much of a resource for this in the past. In the current European Union cycle, Hungarian people, local governments and businesses are supported by EU funds, as we know very well you are aware that almost 60 percent will be used for economic recovery, otherwise quite rightly. The Hungarians, the voters, seem to be satisfied with this, because on 8 April they made a pretty convincing decision on this, and they gave a convincing opinion. It is also a fact that Hungary's total resources in this cycle have already been announced to the beneficiaries, almost 100 percent of the commitments have been made, with contracts and payments remaining. Unfortunately, I have to say, of course, that not everyone is happy about these results, so besides our allies, we do have counter-opinionists, Hungarian citizens, bureaucrats in Brussels, who occasionally do everything they can to make up for the problem projects that do not seem too complicated, to create a great political storm, and in our case it is something like this. Of course, in terms of efficiency, I think it is equally important that public buildings be modernised and developed, as they are also used by Hungarian people. Thank you very much for your question, and I hope that the developments in the next period will convince you of the right thing to do. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-18-130	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2018-06-18-131	Thank you for the floor. The EU originally set out this programme to increase the energy efficiency of homes. This has been modified at the request of the government. Taxpayers' money could be used to renovate government offices. It is not clear why this money, the EU money, is not being used by the state for the population. In the winter months, a house with a gang can reach up to 40-50 thousand forints in the case of an average 40-50 sq m apartment, especially if it has a broken hatch, it has a poor heating system. This cost could be reduced by up to 30-40 percent. This could all benefit local residents. Instead, you are renovating state institutions. I think that this is not what the EU intended for, which is why the Hungarians do not understand how the EU supports them, and why the European Union is useful to them. It's your fault, and that should be changed.
u2018-06-18-132	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-06-18-133	Thank you very much. Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to something interesting: in general, such critical remarks are made in countries which do not wish to join the European Public Prosecutor's Office. There's something weird about that, something interesting is definitely going to show up. And in this situation, I think that the Government of Hungary is working very well with this system, but the decisions that we make within the legal limits, I think there is no place for it and it makes sense to criticize it particularly. By the way, when it comes to actual accounts, these visions you've outlined here, what kind of omissions are happening here, they're nowhere near justified. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-18-134	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Szűcs, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question:, Budget then and now! It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Sándor Bodó as Secretary of State for the response because of his urgent public mission. I ask Mr. Congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[On Dr. Lajos Szűcs' mark:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman. [[Attila Móring József takes his place in the notary seat.]]
u2018-06-18-135	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Although this year is an election year, however, the government submitted the budget in spring to allow market participants time to prepare for any changes. This is a good opportunity for us to take account of budgetary and fiscal policies over the past period. It is not without every lesson to remember the tax increases made by left-wing governments and the election promises that have been made in the last two failed elections. From these we can conclude that, unfortunately, the left did not learn from past mistakes after eight years, they want to pursue the same tax policy that Medgyessy, Gyurcsány and Bajnai have already failed in series. László Botka, who had already failed before the elections, campaigned with the idea of a luxury tax, which was already experimented once in 2005. At the time, they thought they were taxing real estate worth more than HUF 100 million. What's he become? A total of 10 million forints came to Budapest. There is no doubt that the corporate tax would be raised again, as they did in 2003; family tax incentives would be abolished, as they had done before; they would introduce multi-key taxation again, making it impossible again for the middle class, as they did before 2010. Dear Minister, Therefore, I ask: why are tax increases and left-wing economic policies not working in practice?
u2018-06-18-136	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Bodó, who will answer the immediate question.
u2018-06-18-137	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In contrast to left-wing economic policy, the government provides room for manoeuvre to reduce tax burdens in the coming years by increasing the competitiveness of the tax system and further reducing the black economy. The Fidesz government has been reducing taxes on individuals and businesses for 8 years now. With the 15 percent personal income tax, our country is currently in a beating position in the competition of the Member States of the European Union, while the 9 percent corporate tax is the lowest in Hungary. The government principle of taxation remains unchanged: taxes must be reduced, but moderate public burdens must be collected from everyone. Government tax policy continues to focus on income taxes, including, in particular, reducing the public burden of work. According to the VKF agreement, in four years the rate of the social contribution tax will be up to 11.5 percent, thus reducing the total tax and contribution burden of the work to the average level of the Visegrád countries. Under the agreement, the minimum wage increased by 15 percent in 2017, 8 percent in 2018 and 25 percent in 2017 and 12 percent in 2018. In order to support families, a programme has been launched in 2016 to double the benefit of parents with two children in equal instalments over four years. The participants will be entitled to HUF 40,000 in 2019 instead of HUF 20,000 per month. Supporting children, creating jobs, paying and increasing competitiveness can help to increase living standards and sustain economic growth. This is the difference between the former and the current budget. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-18-138	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Szűcs in return. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-06-18-139	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Luckily, voters also have a great deal of work to do in this respect, so that they did not allow this system to change so, because the budget figures show that the Hungarian economy is doing well, and it has a very important role to play in using personal income tax, corporate taxes and family tax incentives for economic development by the government. In any case, it is important that, after 8 April, we did not allow the left-wing governments to offer relief again. I think that with the next budget, we will once again create the basis for safe growth. I therefore thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. [[16.10]]
u2018-06-18-140	Thank you very much, Congressman. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-06-18-141	Thank you very much for your comments and for your response. Indeed, it is true that the country's capacity depends most on what economic potential it can achieve. Obviously, there are several conditions for this, and the best results can come from the success of several circumstances, but it is quite clear that if the tax environment is right, it will certainly inspire both employers and workers. That's what we're talking about here. With regard to the restructuring of the economic recovery structure, it is quite clear there, which has already been discussed, that redirecting the use of EU funds towards economic recovery can in any case be the basis for a meaningful and long-term development that will bring visible results. But the results are not just based on this, because if we look behind the numbers, we can see that without these resources, economic growth would actually be very significant. Thank you again for your comment. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-18-142	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Carpathian, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: what does the government do to ease the housing crisis? It's an address. The Prime Minister asked Mr Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to the urgent public task. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-06-18-143	Mr President, Dear House, While the government is stunning the public with the economic results that seem promising, I will not argue about one or two indicators, but on a systemic basis yes, let us not forget that if a typical Hungarian young couple starts their life on average, whether they live together or live separately, they will meet rents in Budapest and in large cities above HUF 100,000, not counting the overhead costs here yet, and in fact the category of political science fiction is that if someone in this room wants to give them recommendations on how to get a single home. According to recent studies, even in a New York area between 7 thousand and 13 500 properties, online accommodation-sharing applications and solutions have reduced the long-term rental market. We are also talking about thousands of scale in Hungary, even according to the measurements from a few years ago, the volume of property above 2 thousand has disappeared from the supply side of the rental market. Meanwhile, there was a clear supply shortage in the absence of a public housing programme. And to demonstrate the success of accommodation-sharing portals, sites and applications: by mid-2017, the airbnb offer in Pest was almost reached the capacity of the hotels. So we are talking about an incredibly large capacity that is lacking in the rental market, clearly contributed to the rise in prices, and, Minister, I am incomprehensible to the fact that a self-respecting government with economic readiness is helpless in view of the events. So my question is short and simple: what do you say to young people in, say, Budapest or metropolitan areas looking for a rent or paying rent? Is this really the economic freedom fight? Would this really be the real prospect for them for the future? Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-18-144	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office.
u2018-06-18-145	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Overall, I would like to point out to you, Mr President, that according to KSH data, Hungary's housing stock has also increased by 45,000 apartments in the last six years. In addition, the vast majority of this occurred in Budapest and in cities with county rights. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That's not what this is about!]] It is also a fact that the population per 100 apartments today is 220. So it's hard to talk about a housing crisis. It is true, what Mr President has said in his question, that, indeed, especially in Budapest, to a lesser extent in cities with county rights, the prices of rents have increased significantly in recent years, and it is only partly balanced by the fact that, in any case, there has been a significant increase in wages in these areas, particularly at the same time. The aim is to ensure that there are credit schemes or a scheme that facilitates the acquisition of own property for young couples with children in particular. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That's not what this is about!]] We can say that from October this year, the Hungarian National Bank will also amend the rules on debt brakes in order to ensure the security of customers who borrow housing and to obtain predictable mortgage-debit fixed rate loans. Besides, we see that in recent years the Hungarian government has done everything in its power to help foreign exchange crooks in distress, and compared to the state near and otherwise threatening by social explosions that existed in Hungary in 2010, despite all the difficulties and losses, the worst has been avoided and eliminated. The asset manager also served this purpose and, moreover, the individual municipalities are now trying to provide preferential housing for young couples in different constructions. In the coming years, in particular, the government will take further measures by changing the CSOK support. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-18-146	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2018-06-18-147	Mr President, Dear House, I ask you, Minister, not only to honor me, but also the Hungarian Parliament. What are you talking about? What are you talking about? We were talking about rents! It's not about the CSOK, it's not about the currency loans you left on the side of the road, but they've been hit with napalm. It was a sublet market, that a Hungarian youth has to pay 130-150 thousand extra bills. Don't talk nonsense. There's been a specific question. In Hungary, on the supply side of large cities, there is clear house and property scarcity, can you alleviate this, do you want to alleviate the problem, or do you not feel the problem? Why are you talking about the intention to acquire your own property? Of course, that's what everyone wants, but if they don't have the ability, because they've created a climate of economic policy that doesn't have a larger share of their own property, then we need to expand the rental market. This was recognized by all modern governments. All I want from you, from you, is to recognize the problem, XXI. In the case of Airbnb, work with a flat-rate tax and a regulation of a fair environment and, in the long term, with a public housing programme. That's what you're talking about, because that's what the question was about. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-18-148	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. And allow me to make a comment, Congressman: I have called you a representative. Here you go, Minister.
u2018-06-18-149	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I find it particularly peculiar when someone asks for a lack of respect, but he speaks in a unique way disrespectfully in the National Assembly. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] But staying on the issue: Mr President, you know precisely that the proportion of housing ownership in Hungary is otherwise decisive compared to any European Union state, so it is significantly greater than in the countries of Western Europe. Therefore, and since this is the only truly serious value for countless families, I consider it appropriate to have a government policy that helps to acquire housing. (Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!) And, of course, the social housing programme is important, and it is also important for young people to have preferential opportunities; at municipal level, you will find countless such programmes, by the way, Member. But I think it is particularly right to have a government policy that aims to make young people primarily owner and strives not to pay rents of 120-150 thousand forints, but to become owners in a few years or even a decade or a little longer. So the difference of opinion is likely to exist here, but I have tried to tell this Member in a different style than you asked. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-18-150	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, László Földi, representative of KDNP, would you like to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:, Night of Museums Family and culture hand in hand? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2018-06-18-151	I accept, Mr. President.
u2018-06-18-152	You have the floor, Congressman. [[16.20]]
u2018-06-18-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, This year, across the country, as I have heard, there are almost 2 000 programs in more than 400 institutions on the night of the museums, the capital of which is Pécs this year, and its motto:, which connects: family and culture. Since 2015, one of Hungary's largest cultural events has boasted its own theme and rural event centre, which has been attended by hundreds of thousands of people in recent years, including South Pest County. This also indicates where the most creative idea fair in the public collection profession has evolved in the past 15 years since the start-up, and where it is going and where it is going as far as possible. Dear Secretary of State, As a Christian Democratic Member, I cannot say that we cannot stress enough how important it is that this year is the year of families. The special attention, which has already surrounded the families, is now also given by a museum night event, since this year this national event is organized around the theme of family and culture. The linking and emphasising of the importance of family and culture draws our attention to the fact that, in addition to material prosperity and existential security, family life must be part of the shared cultural experience, the feeling of collective admiration that is nothing like anything else. There's a lot of waiting ahead of the 23rd night. In the spirit of this expectation, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State what we really need to know about this year's event, what institutions have joined the programmes and where the preparations are. How much will the night of the museums be a cultural night for families? Dear Secretary of State, I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2018-06-18-154	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-06-18-155	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, the nearest Saturday to the shortest night of the year is always the night of the museums, the night closest to St. Ivan's night. This is the shortest night that 400 institutions open, and some 400 thousand people are expected at nearly 500 locations, as in recent years the number of participants on the night of museums has risen to over 400 thousand. It is a completely different museum, not only because it is night, but also because it is interactive, experiential, and very family-oriented this year. Not only museums, but also libraries, archives, art institutions, public cultural institutions, heritage sites, monuments, and even non-governmental organizations await those who join the night of museums. The museum functions are presented in a very special way, their faces are shown by museums this night, and we hope that this can extend to other days, and museums can come up with more and more attractive experiences. These are both community-building and community-building tasks. In addition to EMMI this year, the Hungarian Tourism Agency was involved in the preparatory work. And as you said, not only Budapest, but Pécs is also a place of interest for the programs. As you said, in the year of families, families are also at the heart of the night of museums. The various exhibition sites seek to highlight the prominent families or dynasties to whom their collection is linked, who either donated them or in some way contributed to the creation of that collection. Thus, people, the Zsolnay family, the Vasarely family, the Angster family, who have built an organ, or the Littke family's history, and we try to draw attention to every publication, TV, radio, internet and publication that this night is worth knowing to everyone who can. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-18-156	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congressman László Földi in return.
u2018-06-18-157	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your answer. Let me draw the attention of this House to the county of South Pest in my own environment, where not only the Kossuth Museum in Cegléd, but also the cultural centre, the village museum in Veszér, or the very famous Curia Museum in Budapest, founded by the Blaskovichs, awaits the honored visitors, the visitors this night. I believe that there will also be programs in South Pest County that will be able to please families, people living there, but also people coming from far away. I am very confident that, given the experience of previous years, this system is working very well again this year, and I trust that many people, many families, will visit these institutions on the next night of the 23rd. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-18-158	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2018-06-18-159	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Obviously, this programme also has a dual purpose, on the one hand, to provide special programs that night and, on the other hand, to please those who may not have reached the museum during the year. We hope that there will be as many as possible who visit museums and public collections in this way, because they have been created to convey culture to as many as possible and to create a community through the mediation of culture. Perhaps someone who has not been to one or another museum in recent years does not recognize one or another exhibition, because there are exhibitions throughout Hungary with a great deal of creativity, a lot of people's added intellectual work and interactive equipment that showcase not the old exhibition themes based on objects placed in different virtuals, but can really attract everyone and attract interest in arts, science or anything else. So we encourage everyone to spend the night and the rest of their days visiting museums. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-18-160	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Imre László, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question with the title "The General Health Care." Minister asked Mr Bence Rétvári, State Secretary, to answer the question because of his urgent public service mission. I would like to ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Minister himself for an answer. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-06-18-161	Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Among health policy makers, it is a boring cliché that a health system cannot be good if the basic care is not working properly. I would just like to mention a few figures about the Hungarian GP system, which they certainly could not hear from their propaganda newscasters. The number of settlements in which the provision of general medical care is uncertain is slowly rising to over 500. There are no doctors at all in 500 Hungarian settlements, or there are few to care for all patients. For general doctors who haven't given up yet, the average age is 60 years. In a few years, hundreds of people will retire at the same time, without substantial supplies. In the Semmelweis University Institute of Behavioral Science, 40 percent of graduate medical students said that they were going to work abroad. Two out of four of our medical universities, but almost three are constantly working abroad, and no one over the age of 60 will replace them. However, the average age of pediatric physicians is even higher, a year or two, and the pediatrician will be the largest shortage profession in Hungary. You think these are boring numbers? Do you think this is another boring statistic that the opposition is amusing itself with? Ladies and gentlemen. You just have to experience it once if our child has a problem and there's no one to help him. They just need to feel that insanity once when they can't help their own child. At this rate, more and more people will experience this feeling in Hungary. Thanks to you. I'm going to ask the government colleagues what they're going to do to replace GPs and pediatricians. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the lines of DK, LMP and MSZP.]]
u2018-06-18-162	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor.
u2018-06-18-163	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, What you are talking about here is a problem known for decades in Hungary. There have been governments that have watched this process by hand, even made things worse, say, by withdrawing funds, and there are governments like the Fidesz-KDNP government that are trying to help it from several directions. What can make the GP's career attractive? Among other things, it is clear that higher income can be obtained if the funding is higher. For four years, every year, the monthly funding of GP practices has increased by 130 thousand HUF per month. This means that it is now 520 thousand forints higher than the monthly income of the GP practice four years ago. This is important because anyone facing a career choice or a career change clearly takes account of the income he can earn as an important aspect. In 2010, a typical family doctor, a general doctor, had a practice income somewhere around 800,000 forints, now around 1.5 million forints. Then he had to pay $800,000 for his rent, his staff, and his own wages, and now he's got to come out of a million and a half forints. [[16.30]] We hope that this will make the GP career more attractive for many, and in the years to come, while there is a Fidesz-KDNP government, we will always focus primarily on basic care, and on making competitive use of GP practices. You can only forget to mention it, obviously on purpose, that we have started programs, on the one hand, to buy practices, so that someone can join as a general practitioner, and on the other hand, to support establishment. So if someone moves to a place where there are no general practitioners, then they can now receive HUF 10-20 million in support of the establishment in free use. In the framework of this, half a million people have been successful in providing their general medical care since 2014, if this had not been the case, half a million people would not have received their own GPs and 135,000 dentists in the last year and a half. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-18-164	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I give the floor to Congressman Imre László in return. Here you go. You have the floor, Congressman, for rejoinder.
u2018-06-18-165	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to remind Mr Secretary of State that despite all the support you have been trying to provide for the uploading of GP practices, there is a steady increase in the number of uncharged practices. However, there is a constant tendency for young people to refuse to choose this career. The average age is as high, the number of exits is significantly higher on the outgoing side than the number of entrants, and at all, in the system itself, according to the GPs, since they have to pay for the assistant, the medical clerk, the overhead and all other improvements, they cannot take more than HUF 150 to 200 thousand out of the practice every month. This is not a challenge for young people, which is why they are responding to virtually no choice in this area. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-06-18-166	Thank you very much, Congressman. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2018-06-18-167	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think in the rejoinder we have come a little closer to moving towards a solution, because indeed, these programmes have helped, but we will also be working to launch more attractive programmes. We cannot forget that local authorities can now exempt general practitioners from local business tax, making this career more attractive or more predictable. As I said, the government's plan was to increase funding further in the coming years, and this more than half a million forints has been a significant change in the last four years. As a result of the launch of this program, those who enter and practice in GPs are on average 15 years younger than the average GPs. So we can also do a rejuvenation, a 15-year rejuvenation. At the establishment contest, we can talk about 142 doctors and 167 doctors who are now entering the system. But I think, Mr honourable Member, these programmes can help to ensure that the provision of general health care is better than what you wanted when the visitation fee was introduced and to keep patients away from the general medical practice. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-18-168	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, It's 4:33 p.m., and we've reached the end of the immediate questioning. Now we're going to talk about questions. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question:, How do you intend to combat African swine fever in the domestic pig sector? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-06-18-169	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. Well, it seems that the constantly declining Hungarian livestock farming and the food industry that is built on it are going into another crisis. We are talking about the pig sector here, and after a long, long years, you found yourself a little bit last year, and the improved environment was encouraging. And then there's African swine fever. It is important to note that this does not pose a threat to humans and that the tabloid mood in this direction should be suppressed in the bud. At the same time, the virus is a huge challenge for domestic hunting and pig farmers and processors, as they will not be able to overcome it alone without help. Its significance is due to the economic damage caused by the killing of sick flocks on the one hand and, on the other hand, the long-term exposure to ASP after the release of the ASP. This could have a significant impact on domestic export trade both within the European Union and towards third parties. The particular risk of the disease is that it is spread not only by infected live pigs but also by products containing the virus and by movements of wild boar. In addition, the virus is highly resistant to environmental effects. Contradictive figures have come to light about the damage that has already been done to our country. As early as the first week, the market for 40,000 tons of meat became uncertain. This is 11 percent of the total Hungarian production, and can amount to 110 billion HUF/year exports. And it's only gotten worse since then. The decision of the national chief veterinary surgeon came out three days ago, which answered some of my questions; it was, of course, the question I had to give before this decision had been published, but there are still a lot of worrying questions. Among other things, what happens when things get worse and this virus not only appears in feral pigs but also in domestic, domestic or large-scale pigs. Can we count on the European Union to help, do you have such a force majeure framework, have you turned to the Union at all? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-18-170	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary Robert Zsigó.
u2018-06-18-171	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Two minutes is not enough to answer the questions you asked. But since you have asked these questions in writing, so what I will not have time to answer now, we will do in writing. African swine fever is a major challenge for both the services of the countries and the actors in the pig sector in an increasing number of Member States of the European Union. As you mentioned, the virus appeared in wild boar in Hungary on 21 April 2018. The veterinary authority shall immediately take the necessary measures in the event of any suspicion and in any event shall confirm or deny the need for further testing by a laboratory. In recent years, we have done everything we can to ensure that this virus does not come to Hungary. The current regulations are summarised in a separate national chief veterinary decision, the most recent part of which appeared a few days ago. In the most vulnerable areas, animal keepers and mayors have been informed, and on the Nébih thematic website information is kept up-to-date. The most important task we have right now is to protect the domestic pig population from contamination. In the event of an outbreak in domestic pigs, the direct damage to the producers concerned, which comply with the epidemiological rules, will be borne by the State at 100%. We will also continue to look at the possibilities of aid to address possible indirect damage. If the secondary damage caused by the epidemiological measures can be adequately substantiated, we will apply to the European Commission for exceptional market support measures. The primary task in external trade is to recover export markets and to enforce regionalisation similar to the EU's procedural system. In addition, we have achieved results in the negotiations that have been launched, in the case of Hong Kong, New Zealand or Canada. The aim of the Hungarian Government is to help participants in the sector by making full use of the available opportunities, thereby mitigating losses. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-06-18-172	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Sándor Szabó, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. How many kms of road renovation and maintenance will take place in Csongrád county this year, i.e. in 2018? It's an address. Mr Sándor Szabó has the floor.
u2018-06-18-173	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The state of public roads is in very poor condition, and it is not only about the side roads connecting individual small settlements, but also about the three or two-digit main roads, where, I think, immediate intervention and immediate road renovations are needed in order to achieve safe transport. Well, the secretary of state knows that, and the county road operators know that, but when we turn to them, we get the answer that they have strict budgets, strict plans, and insufficient money to renovate the county's roads. I note in parentheses that so many meaningless investments have been made here in Hungary, just think of the empty stadium investments here, so that the billions that, say, spent on stadium construction, I think we could have used it calmly to improve the state of domestic roads and to renovate Hungarian roads. [[16.40]] This could have been done either from the domestic budget or from other EU sources. Last year, in 2017 in Csongrád county, the Csongrád County State Road Manager had money to renovate only 23.5 km of road, and I received this in writing in response. I do not know anything about the plans for this year, which is why I turned to the Secretary of State to inform me of the extent to which road renovation will take place this year in Csongrád county. I would be a little more interested in my own constituency, so the administrative section of the road in Szeged is affected by state road renovations, if any. The section between Szeged and Kübekháza is also very, very critical, where buses can now travel at speeds of 40 kilometers. So I'm asking you, there's gonna be any road renovations there, and the road renovations continue. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2018-06-18-174	Thank you very much, Congressman. State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés will answer the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-06-18-175	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, Improving the state of the domestic road network is the government's priority, and we are making great efforts to improve the service quality of national roads. The complex road renovation programme will be implemented from budgetary sources in 2018, with 2 main and 13 side roads in the area of Csongrád county being renewed for a total of 47.2 kilometres. Under the TOP programme, the renovation possibilities for four and five-digit routes were addressed by the county authorities, in which the road operator only participates as an operator. Thanks to the source, eight side roads are renewed in the area of Csongrád county in 23 kilometers of length. For both programmes, the work will be carried out continuously from the spring of this year and will be carried out this year. In the administrative area of Szeged, the two sections of main road No. 5 are renewed in half a kilometer, beyond the administrative area of the city, the Szeged-Röszke link road 4301 is renewed at a length of 6.4 kilometers. The preparatory tasks for the preparation of the programmes for the coming years have also begun, during which the intervention on technically justified road sections will take place. I would like to inform you that the Hungarian State has concluded a grant agreement worth approximately HUF 400 billion for five years to ensure the financing of its operations with Magyar Közút Nonprofit Zrt. According to the contract, the road operator can carry out the existing maintenance tasks of the national road network in a more predictable way and at a higher level than so far, and eliminate accident-dangerous hull defects. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-18-176	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Ágnes Vadai, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior:. How could a member of a criminal organisation organising illegal migration receive a settlement policy? It's an address. Congresswoman Agnes Vadai has the floor.
u2018-06-18-177	Thank you. Dear House, If you come to Hungary, you must buy a settlement policy from Fidesz! " This text could have been on the government's hate posters. The truth is, because Fidesz let anyone in the country who bought settlement bonds from one of the offshore brokers determined by Antal Rogán. Since the establishment bond programme started, 20,000 people have come to Hungary without any control. For three years, you have refused to talk about anything other than illegal migration. All right, let's talk about illegal migration and how Fidesz helps smugglers. [[Sándor Szabó replaces the gullible Dezső in the notary seat.]] In March this year, 444 and Direkt36 wrote that a Syrian citizen named Salmo Bazkka came to Hungary with an establishment bond. That he's here is confirmed by one of his relatives. Bazkka is suspected by the Italian authorities of being a member of an international criminal organization that is involved in laundering money from illegal migration, namely: the Italian authorities suspect him of this, as he captured Salmo Bazkka in an action by the Counter-Terrorism Centre last November. Videos and pictures of this capture can also be found on the police's website. According to police, several bundles of cash worth 143 million forints and three kilograms of gold jewelry were seized. Police.hu said the following about the people in custody, including Salmo Bazkka:. The members of the criminal organization were involved in washing and distributing large amounts of cash from drug and arms trafficking and crimes related to illegal migration. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I ask how many people were sold by the Orbán government to smugglers, and how many smugglers have been arrested by the Hungarian authorities to whom the Orbán government has provided settlement bonds. How many Salmo Bazkkas are there with the government's permission in Hungary? How many smugglers did Fidesz take in? Thank you.
u2018-06-18-178	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary Károly Kontra.
u2018-06-18-179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We, on behalf of the Ministry of Interior, wanted to ask you the same question, because the person mentioned in his oral question, please pay close attention, he was granted a residence permit on 10 March 2010 and therefore on 10 March 2010. At that time, you, your party, the Hungarian Socialist Party, were in the former government, and you were in the government's responsibility, as I understand you were State Secretary of the Ministry of Defence. You brought him in. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Residency... Bond!]] "You brought him in, we captured him, that was the division of labour, honourable Member. You advocated sin, and we have given effect to the law, so that is what we are talking about, honourable Member. We have discovered it against your government, and we have apprehended the person mentioned in this matter on the basis of an international arrest warrant. Speaking of which, there is no question that security is the most important community value in the world today. Hungary is a safe country, and the main reason for this is that our government gives us the conditions needed to create security: we have adopted strict laws here in this House after 2010, the police have been strengthened both in its number, in its vehicle stock, in its IT system and in its new service law, and as of July 1, 2015, there is a career plan, with an average salary increase of 50 per cent. This was all a measure that contributed to Hungary becoming a safe country. And yes, honourable Member, we protect Hungary from migrants [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: They won't protect you!]] from illegal immigrants, and if security is important to you, the security of the Hungarian people is important, I ask you to testify on Wednesday by voting both in favour of the amendment of the basic law and in favour of the Stop Soros bill here in Parliament. [[Gergely Arató: This has nothing to do with this, Mr. Secretary of State.]] Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-18-180	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Why hasn't early diagnostics reached every family with autistic children, and how does the government remedy the failure? It's an address. Congressman Péter Ungár has the floor.
u2018-06-18-181	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, According to official data, there are 160,000 people living in Hungary, but we know precisely that these data are much lower than the number of people living with real autism, since early diagnostics, which is one of the most important things to do, are not available to people in a significant part of Hungary. We know exactly that the younger people get help, the more likely they are to live a normal life. We know very well that this type of diagnostic system is not available in the countryside. I would like to point out that in the eighth year of your administration, for example, there are zero places in Zala County where this diagnosis can be made. After the diagnosis is made, even though they enter such children's nursery, kindergarten, school, there are very few professionals in these areas who have such expertise and are able to perform these development activities. In 2015, the TÁMOP 6.1.4 tender was concluded, which aimed at supporting the optimal bio-psycho-social development of the 0-7 age group. A significant part of this was a modern technology system that would have meant spreading early diagnostics across the country. This TÁMOP application, made from millions of HUF sources, did not reach all families according to our current knowledge. In this regard, I would like to ask you the following specific questions. What is the reason why this has not reached all Hungarian families? And what exact numbers can you tell me about how this TÁMOP contest helped those who have children living with autism? And what does the government do to resolve the failures it has not been able to do in the last eight years? Thank you very much.
u2018-06-18-182	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[16.50]]
u2018-06-18-183	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I really think it is an important task for everyone to be able to help these families. If you look at the number of children with spectrum disorder in the system of public education throughout the country, you can see that, yes, there is a number of thousands here, and if you look at how many schools are prepared compared to this, then this is a much higher number than before. There are 1431 schools and kindergartens who can help more. If we look at how many teachers and teachers are available to carry out these tasks, we can also see a large increase. In 2012, therefore, when the project had not yet started, 3345 people were, this 3345 teachers and teachers are now 9435, so much higher, much more can help these families fortunately. This is also due to the fact that, in 2012-2013, the first education called the pedagogy of the spectrum of autism was launched in Europe and Hungary, which also contributed to this number. In 2017, on the one hand, guidelines were issued, professional and practical guidelines for the performance of their duties in the field of child protection, in particular with regard to early detection, signaling and cooperation. From 30 October 2017, the use of screening tests according to the modern methodology is already mandatory for regional women. In addition, a children's basic care guide was issued to the age group you quoted. Within the framework of the project, 3,000 women were trained, and the training was planned for another thousand people, precisely so that as many people who meet children know the necessary protocols, the regulatory background, screening, measurement, testing procedures in terms of supply protocols. We hope that they can really help us to assess risk factors and to monitor the development of the child, with their qualifications, their assets, the development and the renewal of their methodology, on the one hand, on the other hand, that if they experience different developments, they can help to filter out these children. As I said, there are now many thousands of health teachers or patrons who can help Hungarian families. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-18-184	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Sándor Burány, representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. Why hasn't the renovation of the Kőbánya-Kispest railway station been completed with the money awarded in 2013 and who will be held responsible for the fact that an investment already paid in 2013 has not yet started in mid-2018? It's an address. Mr Sándor Burány has the floor.
u2018-06-18-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The story of the non-renewal of Kőbánya-Kispest railway station is one of the instructive stories of the stolen money, the double-crossed population and fidesz corruption. Of course, the money was spent, but Kőbánya-Kispest station still looks like the time stopped when metro 3 met the railway, and it was not Budapest, but the gate of the Balkans. Of course, it is not responsible this time either, and I am sure many would be interested in what the billions in question have gone to. Construction should be completed by 2019, but now it is June 2018 and they haven't even started yet. According to recent press reports, the renovation of Europe's most miserable railway station will continue, and I quote: "The launch of the construction will take place in the spring of 2020 and will be completed at the end of 2021. They didn't promise that, and they didn't answer a previous question to me in 2016, here in the National Assembly. Moreover, according to the insiders, the new slippage is not independent of the fact that the former Minister for Development, János Lázár and Miklós Seszták, who distributed EU funds, lost the Prime Minister's trust, and we must now look for more oligarchs. However, tax-paying Hungarian citizens are not interested in the exact conditions of force between the robbers near Orbán, they want to travel under European conditions at last, especially after the renovation has already been paid for once by the European Union. Therefore, please inform me why Kőbánya-Kispest's railway station has not been completed with the money awarded in 2013, what is the exact reason for the current slippage [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And who will be held accountable for all this. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-06-18-186	Congressman! Dear Parliament, State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés will answer the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-06-18-187	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, The development of the Kőbánya-Kispest railway station is the MÁV Zrt. As part of an EU project entitled station development and integrated customer service development programme at 25 locations, an investment has been identified. The date of the planned completion of the project, as you said, is December 2019 according to the current grant agreement. In the development programme, which aims, among other things, to create government windows at high-traffic railway stations, Kőbánya-Kispest railway station passenger traffic areas can be developed for HUF 2.2 billion. The implementation of the investment was between July 2018 and November 2019. Up to now, pre-plans and associated cost calculations have been completed, on the basis of which, however, the source is insufficient for the extended technical content to be implemented. MÁV Zrt. has issued a public procurement of technical content based on the pre-plans, the procedure is ongoing. The plans include the construction of a new pedestrian overpass, as the expected increase in passenger traffic in suburban traffic cannot be met by the transferability of the existing facility. Some of the elements of the station development project are also linked to the development of an international airport connection with Liszt Ferenc Budapest. The airport project's approval plans also include the extension of the "B" platform, but this can only be done by installing a new platform border. The construction of existing platforms and the new platform section to be extended in the airport project will also entail an additional development task. Since the preparation of the airport project also concerns Kőbánya-Kispest station, the two projects need to be further coordinated. The costs of the plans of the Kőbánya-Kispest station in the station development project were covered by the MÁV in its own financing, and no EU funding has been used up until now.
u2018-06-18-188	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. [[Bence of Turdai: Then it's done! Deterioration in the lines of Dialogue and LMP.]] Dear Parliament, János Bencsik, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology: in what way can our country be involved in the development of self-driving vehicles? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-06-18-189	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In recent years, economic growth in Hungary has continued steadily, tourism, retail, housing markets and industrial sectors have made significant investments. The Hungarian GDP growth in the last quarter was 4.7 percent, which exceeded the EU average. Meanwhile, the balance of public finances has been ensured and the government debt has been declining for the eighth year. Thanks to the improved economic performance, there is more for Hungarian families. Several years of tax and wage agreements have led to a reduction in the wage burden, with wages rising by 12.4 percent in the first quarter of this year. We are witnessing a competitive turnaround in the Hungarian economy, which is also confirmed by international surveys. On the basis of an annual international competitiveness survey published by the Swiss IMD Institute for Lead Training and Economic Research, Hungary has made five seats this year. Based on the survey, Hungary's most important competitiveness strengths include skilled labour, dynamic economic growth and a competitive tax environment. One of the conditions for further improvement in performance is to stimulate the innovation activity of domestic companies and attract innovative industries to Hungary. A technological revolution is taking place in the automotive sector. The development of electric and self-driving vehicles is a very innovative and promising area. Dear Secretary of State, In this regard, I ask you how our country has the opportunity to participate in this process, including the development of self-driving vehicles. [[17.00]]
u2018-06-18-190	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés will answer the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-06-18-191	Thank you. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As one of the key elements of the planned Central and Eastern European test zone, Zalaegerszeg is based on a vehicle test track suitable for self-driving and electric vehicles from Hungarian sources. The facility provides development and testing opportunities for telecommunications, IT and software development companies developing domestic and international vehicle industry and vehicle management systems in a secure, closed and reproducible environment. The construction that has been going on for a year is already at the building of the oval track. An important program that complements and increases the closed test environment is the smart city-based development of the city, i.e. smart city-based development, where a large telecommunications company can first start building its 5 G mobile communications network in Hungary in the county seat and region of Zalai. In addition, in the Budapest-Győr-Zalaegerszeg triangle, the motorways M1 and M7 are designed to form a national test corridor by connecting the motorway M86 and the motorway Zalaegerszeg with the motorway M7. The Hungarian test corridor is planned to connect to an international road test corridor in partnership with Austria and Slovenia in the Zalaegerszeg-Graz-Maribor region, so that even more comprehensive testing of connected and electric vehicles will be possible in a real road environment. In order to ensure effective cooperation, tripartite agreements have been reached, which have been established in parallel at five levels, government, university, business clusters and between road authorities. In the spirit of the common objectives, the Hungarian, Austrian and Slovak parties signed a Memorandum of Understanding for cross-border cooperation to develop and test electrical, interconnected and autonomous mobility services in March 2018 in Budapest, where the EU Commissioner responsible for transport was also present. Please accept my reply as an honor. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-18-192	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ádám Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources: "Hungary Europe's Obesity Champion." Mr. Ádám Steinmetz has the floor.
u2018-06-18-193	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Based on the results of the national nutrition and nutrition assessment in 2014, 60 percent of adult women in Hungary, 65 percent of men are overweight or obese, and according to the results of the World Health Organization in 2016, the rate of obesity among the Hungarian adult population is strikingly high, and we are in the fourth position in the world and in the shocking first place among the European states. Even among children, the situation is becoming increasingly worrying. Being a European champion when it comes to sport is an uplifting feeling, but in this category it is devastating, and it is also a matter of government responsibility. Of course, we could say that everyone should enjoy themselves, but fatness is not merely an aesthetic issue in my opinion, and it is not a private matter. Excessive storage of fat is linked to the development of many diseases, including cardiovascular diseases, which in Hungary accounts for more than half of the deaths. Fatification reduces life expectancy, and this fact is remarkable in a country with demographic problems. By preventing its formation, we should spend less on the treatment of the diseases associated with it. Government efforts, such as the introduction of daily physical education in schools, the promotion of replacements, as well as the separate taxation of unhealthy foods, are important, but apparently not sufficient. Dear Secretary of State, Why have no further measures been taken to enhance physical activity, promote recreational sports and promote the spread of a healthy nutrition culture in order to protect people's ideal body weight and thus their health? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-18-194	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Tünde Szabó, who will answer the question.
u2018-06-18-195	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for asking. When we learned about the public health situation in 2010, we had to face the fact that in Hungary only 5 percent of the population regularly played sports, and about 75 percent of the young people of compulsory age did any sport-like activity exclusively in the framework of physical education. We had destroyed sports facilities, and physical, chronic physical and mental health problems appeared in an increasingly younger age. The situation was indeed serious and required immediate intervention. Therefore, the Hungarian government has taken responsible measures to address the social problem, which are exemplary throughout Europe. With the introduction of daily physical education, nearly one and a half million students now move every day for at least 45 minutes, we organize health-conscious living programs, where more than one and a half million people have participated so far, as well as mass catering reform also leads children towards a healthy lifestyle. The number of certified athletes has reached 501,000, more than half of which are young, which has increased by 114 percent since 2011. We support leisure and competition events throughout the country, and we support the Hungarian Association of Nature Walkers and the Hungarian Association of Leisure Sports, as through them, almost 2 million people register and participate in the events they organise each year in order to spread the rich lifestyle. And last but not least, we draw attention to healthy lifestyles, life-long regular exercise, a rich lifestyle and health-conscious living with more programmes, with more than HUF 14 billion of EU funding being used. Honourable Congressman, The Hungarian Government has been and continues to be [[The president's ringing the bell.]] It considers sport as a priority strategic sector, and we will continue to give priority to children, families and older people in order to maintain our health. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-18-196	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, It's 5:07 p.m., and we're done with questioning. We will now continue our work by negotiating a series of requests for inclusion. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the T/20, entitled "The Seventh Amendment to the Fundamental Law of Hungary." Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I will give the floor to the author in a five-minute time frame. Congressman György Szilágyi is next.
u2018-06-18-197	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am in a somewhat difficult situation because I am going to argue in favour of a bill that is essentially a proposal of the ruling parties that are not present, literally. The only difference compared to the proposal submitted by you in October 2016 is the issue of settlement bonds, for which, let's add, the proposal has been voted down seven times in the past due to their well-thought-out own financial interests, since Jobbik's representatives have repeatedly explained in the previous cycle that the amendment of the basic law cannot be a half-solution, and our goal has been clear: neither a rich migrant nor a poor migrant nor a rich terrorist nor a poor terrorist should come to Hungary. It must be said that you, who, for example, have done business, neighbors, luxury yachts, as the Prime Minister said, with Mr Pharaon, Professor Pharaon, have not been able to accept that the only patriotic solution must be the alternative that we offer. You've been holding on to the settlement bonds tooth and nail, sticking to the dirty money. We know that nearly 20,000 non-EU citizens have been admitted to the country until the settlement bond scheme, as not only under the heading of family reunification, but also under the heading of the bondsholders, the children living in a single household, but also the children of special age, and even the grandparents, have received the Hungarian residence permit. [[17.10]] These transactions were not good for the Hungarian people, but for the offshore companies and lawyers of the local government, and through them, the prominents of Fidesz are clearly. You needed the money so badly that in Iraq, in the ISIS citadel, a new office was opened at the time. It is indeed important to protect Hungary from quotas at the basic level of law, since Jobbik wants this amendment of the basic law, but it is equally important that we not only suspend it, but also permanently eliminate the possibility of a bond business, as it is a life-threatening construction from the point of view of security policy. You know as well as society, because there are a lot of police news and reports about when, where and what crimes have been committed by people who have obtained protective status. It's quite simply that these people's national security screenings don't work. The situation is much worse for those applying for a settlement policy, because apparently you needed the goods so badly that without any particular control anyone could have access to the settlement papers. While you are saying at every moment that you are defending Hungary, you are protecting the European Union, the opposite is true. You just opened the door to a number of people with questionable pasts and allowed them to enter Europe in bulk. In addition to security risks, they have caused serious damage from a national economy point of view, as we know that the bond guarantees at least 2% return. As a result, until the end of the settlement bond scheme, Hungarian taxpayers were able to claim losses of HUF 17.5 billion. In other words, all Hungarian taxpayers supported the settlement bond scheme with HUF 882,000, which is an amazing number. How many do you think would have volunteered to make this deposit? And then we didn't talk about what kind of money these offshore companies were registered in the Cayman Islands, Singapore, Liechtenstein, Malta and Cyprus could make in this business. They earned 57 billion forints of income only because of the return of the paper, plus 99.2 billion forints of the commission paid to them, so they earned a total of HUF 156.2 billion of income thanks to the Hungarian State and the Hungarian Parliament, while the Hungarian State, as I said, lost HUF 17.5 billion only because of the too high returns on the bonds. After all this, I am really looking forward to wondering whether this time they will vote yes or no, taking into account the series of subjects of our proposal not only for suspension but also for final delivery of the settlement bonds. If not, you have a simple message: you will continue to think about the possibility of reopening this undoubtedly profitable business, but rather the opening of a dirty business with the interests of the Hungarian people, in contrast to the security of the whole of Europe. On the other hand, if you want to give the country 100% protection, as we would like the region to do, you must vote for inclusion in the series of subjects, because this is the only way to achieve it, that it is not a rich migrant. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] No poor migrant, no rich terrorist, no poor terrorist (The President indicated the end of time by jogging the bell. ) do not move freely in our country or in the territory of the European Union. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-18-198	Thank you. Dear Parliament, A representative may now present his position in a two-minute time frame for each group of representatives and in a two-minute time frame for the first independent Member to speak. I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter, the LMP Group.
u2018-06-18-199	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very curious to know what button the pro-government representatives will press on this proposal in the vote, as the government that fights illegal migration in words and fights terrorism has adopted a law and pushed through Parliament, which allowed more than 20,000 people into Hungary and the Schengen area without any substantive control. Among these people, there were criminals, which has actually been proven in several cases. Among these people, there may be terrorists, and among these people there may be 20,000 people who are members of counterintelligible secret services, people who, by the way, can spend a given period in the Schengen area with this Hungarian lifelong residence permit and are free to move at any time. It's the government's responsibility. As long as they're talking about security in words, it's you on the fence, you could say, that's a huge security breach. Why would they do that? It is not for Hungary's sake, not for the Hungarian economy's sake, as this construction has now caused the Hungarian state a loss of HUF 18 billion, but simply so that Antal Rogán and his buddies can fill their pockets through offshore companies to which the sale of Hungarian government bonds has been outsourced. There's no such thing anywhere in the world. While the Hungarian government is conducting communication governance, it does not act on merit and does not do anything for the safety of the Hungarian people. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] but he keeps digging under it with his own decisions. Stop this construction! Thank you.
u2018-06-18-200	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Demeter, Fidesz Group.
u2018-06-18-201	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Indeed, the proposal before us is almost entirely identical to the amendments supported by the governing parties. The only substantial difference is that Jobbik would forbid and I see now that LMP is also selling settlement bonds. This has been said here several times in Parliament and in the Justice Committee meetings that they are banging open gates. However, for the sake of clarity, it is important to stress that before 2010, i.e. eight years of bad economic policy, the country was on the verge of bankruptcy, and that is why it was necessary to finance the operation of the State, thus avoiding new IMF or world credit. The macroeconomic processes have led to a significant reduction in the yield of sovereign debt and the country's financing could already be carried out on a market-based basis under very favourable conditions, therefore the Government Debt Management Centre, which manages the programme, Zrt. has decided to close the sale of settlement bonds. As a result, the purchase of bonds is no longer possible for applications submitted after 31 March 2017. [[Márta Demeter: But the law is alive!]] The closure of the sale of settlement bonds is also reflected in the legislative changes. Annex II on the entry and residence of third-country nationals of 2007 In this context, of course, the law implementing the Law and the NGM regulation containing the rules of procedure for issuing bonds have been amended. Pursuant to the Implementing Regulation, applications could only be submitted by 31 March 2017 [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] under the NGM Regulation, after the examination of these applications, there will be no more bond issuance since autumn 2017. (The President indicated the end of the time by jogging the bell. ) Therefore, Fidesz does not support inclusion in the series. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2018-06-18-202	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Adam Mirkóczki, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2018-06-18-203	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that at least Mr Demeter, on the part of the governing parties, has spoken, let us leave it in substance. I think that time has demonstrated the need and legitimacy of the motion that we tabled in 2016 and since then you have voted no less than seven times, of course in the spirit of security. National security anomalies and risks, as well as various crimes, have already been reported very richly by people before me, and I would like to draw attention to another story. In 2016, you declared war on a quota of 1,200 people in Brussels with a certain amendment to the basic law. They said this was the big gate, it had to be closed, and the settlement bonds were considered a kind of loophole. Well, after that time, we can say that that quota of 1,200 has, fortunately, gone nowhere. However, through your so-called loophole, along with family reunification, no less than 20,000 people have received different status of residence in Hungary. That's what you should account for. [[17.20]] Of course, you can say that it is in front of this House and that there will be a final vote on a certain amendment to the basic law on Wednesday, but I would like to stress that this is coherent with the fact that it does not put one out of the other. And I could also say that if you were serious about the security of the country and the protection of the country, you would simply vote in favour of this, because we can ask you the rhetorical question of who or what prevented you from suspending the establishment bond business and construction, but abolishing it and removing it from Hungarian legislation. They didn't do that, which is a kind of unspoken intention that if any of you need more money, then, of course, you'll be sharpened at any time and everything will continue. Let's just forget about the economics. How many jobs have been created in this way, because if only one had been created by one of the bond holders, you would be waving it as a victory flag. Obviously, that's not what this is about. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-18-204	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2018-06-18-205	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to say that my fellow Member, Mr Demeter, has so devisingly said that Jobbik and LMP have joined, because they want to terminate the settlement policy, to draw a strigula, I do not know if you have noticed that we would like it, and we have tabled several laws, Congressman, in order for this to happen. For as strange as it may be, you are not sitting in the studio of M1 and not of Echo TV, my honourable fellow Member, where the hardest question for you may be that you can be so clever and well-politicised. Here, if you're gonna say something, I'm afraid you'd better look it up or read more than just a piece of paper. Congressman, there is a law that Antal Rogán has submitted to Parliament, and you voted in favour of it, on the basis of which hundreds of billions of people have been wheeled out of public money, and the Republic of Hungary has suffered a specific damage of the magnitude of ten billion because of the exchange rate difference. Congressman, you're not telling the truth, I could say that more forcefully, but I think there's no need for that. There is no closure of the settlement policy, the law is alive, and by referring to all kinds of enforcement regulations within the walls of this House, I think that either you look at us and the public in this country is otherwise completely outrageously stupid, or you read paper that you have not looked at, by the way, what it is really about. We say, too, that by the power of the law, we must eliminate this establishment bond option. Our solution is to have all the companies who have carried hundreds of billion forints of public money through offshore companies accounted for by your will, courtesy and assistance. Thank you for listening.
u2018-06-18-206	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I ask the other factions and the independent Members that there is an intention to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see that. I will ask the rapporteur, Mr György Szilágyi, if you would like to reply. You have two minutes to respond. You have the floor.
u2018-06-18-207	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I might believe Zoltán Demeter's words that the Fidesz will now support us, because we are banging open gates, you said, so support us to abolish this law, which is still alive at the moment thanks to Antal Rogán. There is only one sentence: these settlement bonds must be issued. But you've been slipping, and you keep communicating, and I'm telling you, you're lying. You said here how much the country needed this residency bond business, because it helped the country. I'll tell you, we're talking 2.4 percent of all government bonds sold. Well, did that help the country? ! That's what pulled the country out of this big mess that you think he was supposed to be involved in? No! This was simply a dirty money, it was a dirty business through offshore companies, as Viktor Orbán said that the age of offshore knights had expired, so much that out of the eight companies that you gave permission to, by the way, might have been illegal within the framework of the Economic Commission, seven of them were offshore companies. Seven! And these offshore companies have pocketed 156 billion forints of this business. The question is, how much did you get back to Fidesz, how much was, say, banned party funding when these people, let's say, support your media? Yeah, those are the big questions. You can smile about it, but you want to take it back. Twenty thousand people were allowed into the country, twenty thousand people were allowed into Europe, people who had not been examined, and the Hungarian state had suffered serious damage, since only 17 billion forints had been damaged effectively by the Hungarian State, plus the fact that these bonds were sold through offshore companies. The Hungarian state could have sold it. It may be a shame, Mr. Secretary, to laugh at this, but it is simply a shame that there are people in the Hungarian government who do business in such dirty businesses and risk Hungary's security and allow people to live in as much prosperity as possible. Shame on you! [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-18-208	Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on Wednesday's meeting. Dear Parliament, The MSZP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the implementation procedures for financial institutions based on foreign exchange and forint consumer credit agreements T/13. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr László Varga, as rapporteur, in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-06-18-209	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, There was an eviction moratorium in Hungary until 30 April 2018. I'm just stating that this month there have been parliamentary elections, until this month, until the end of this month, there have been no evictions. On 1 May, many people in the media commented on this issue. Very soon it became clear that many tens of thousands of Hungarian families could be in danger here within a few weeks, and they are threatened by the horror of eviction. Several pro-government politicians were asked on 1 May already in this case, such as Péter Harrach, and he promised that they would come to Parliament very soon with a proposal for a solution; a proposal will be put forward which will be a solution to the families concerned very soon. I'm just stating that it's June 18th, and it's been over a month and a half. In this situation, as we have seen this threatening threat, and we have seen that the pro-government Members have not made use of the presentation, so we have tabled to my fellow Members the proposal that Mr President said was voted off by the Judicial Committee, which voted against the inclusion of the series last Tuesday. In fact, in short, the purpose of this is to suspend until 31 December 2019 an ongoing enforcement ordering and execution conception measure for the recovery of claims based on foreign exchange and forint credit or loan contracts and financial leasing contracts. In other words, until then, there should be no new enforcement or enforcement, there should be a moratorium on eviction. I think that the reasons which were also stated in the Judicial Committee were very clear, but these reasons can also be seen from the Hungarian public. On the one hand, there are several preliminary rulings in the European Court of Justice on so-called foreign exchange credit agreements. Until these decisions are made, the legal uncertainty is enormous. The amount of these claims may vary significantly for the benefit of debtors on the basis of these decisions, i.e. the decisions to be taken by the European Court of Justice. In such a situation, we believe that the use of State constraints in a European rule of law cannot take place. There have been a wide variety of issues about how many people are affected by this particular issue; well, it is a matter that is, in any case, directly and indirectly, distressing the lives of millions of Hungarians. Some 900 thousand consumer credit implementations are underway, of which 140 thousand are real estate implementations, and according to experts, about 30-40 thousand families may be at risk of eviction this year. We cannot wait, we cannot wait on this issue, we believe. In the case of cases pending before the European Court of Justice, Parliament has until 31 December 2019 until then, in this year and a half, I think that we can adopt all the necessary debt relief and credit crisis management legislation. [[17 .30]] I think that we can also put in this the proposal of all the organisations that are involved and who are working on and thinking about what is the solution to this huge crisis. On Tuesday, June 12th, there was a meeting of the Justice Committee. Here, too, the representatives of the Chamber of Debts, whom I welcome now, as they are behind me in the box of experts. Very important and considered things were said at the committee meeting. I think that if Parliament has time for this legislation, then there are a lot of proposals that can be included in this, and I understand that my fellow Members have received emails from them. I would consider a lot of your suggestions. I think you may have come a little closer in political terms at the Justice Committee meeting. What I would ask of you now is that we all try to rise above the political divide of the party. What I can promise you is that my fellow rapporteurs and I will be open to the amendments. The point is, we're gonna solve this issue, and we're not gonna go through a political standing war. Thank you, Mr President, I look forward to your opinions. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2018-06-18-210	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A representative may now present his position in a two-minute time frame for each group of representatives and in a two-minute time frame for the first independent Member to speak. We now have the speeches in advance in writing. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group.
u2018-06-18-211	Mr President, Dear House, There are mixed feelings about people in view of the proposal, as we have finally achieved a certain degree of consistency between the opposition forces on issues that we discussed two or three years ago, such as the MSZP, which contributed to the rise of this series of scandals, allowed the stock of foreign exchange loans to build up. Luckily, thanks to civilians, for example, the tax chamber, there are common points of solution that can be lined up without self-destruction, be it opposition or pro-government. And because these emotions are mixed, it is precisely the attitude of the pro-government people, who, on the one hand, deny the mere existence of the problem. Let us not forget that, at the height of 2012-2013, Hungarian people were evicted by government colleagues on the basis of a quota, and their quota, which allowed Hungarians to be thrown out onto the streets, enabled them to evacuate more apartments and property than the executives finally did. So we've been in pretty rough situations, and in the meantime, the representatives of the governing parties have either said that there is no such problem, or that they have already solved it with interest. I think that all similar proposals before us should be supported. I myself will support any proposal towards a solution. There has been a fortunate bidding between the opposition parties that Jobbik will bring in, say, the proposal of the debtor chamber or other civil society, and then another opposition force. I believe that for my part I can support and will support all of them, so there can be no debate on this. At the same time, I would like to stress that we are looking forward to the long-term solution of the forinting of loans at the rate of admission, for many years now, but this ball is not on our side. It is quite clear that the government should speak frankly about its intentions. Thank you for the opportunity. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2018-06-18-212	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi, LMP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-06-18-213	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I can only join the speakers before me, because there is still a danger of a social explosion; the social explosion that, unfortunately, was tried today to disprove on the government side, because this social explosion is on our necks. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Both of you. [[Demercation from the benches of opposition parties.]] This year is the year of families, and if you mean it a little bit, you cannot reject this proposal, because this proposal allows families, children, parents to stay out of the street. You are about to make homelessness a crime, and let's be honest, homelessness must be prevented in the first place. This is a very good proposal on the road to not having thousands of Hungarian families, tens of thousands of homeless people. 'Cause what are we talking about? We are talking about the fact that whoever took on a foreign exchange-based loan knows exactly how unfair market conduct has been carried out by banks, when loans have been granted after insufficient information or after the risks have been suppressed, thus putting the borrower in a position not to be able to make a responsible decision. I believe that this proposal, which would suspend implementation, would provide an opportunity to carry out the hundreds of legal procedures that, to this day, are examining both at home and in the European Union - the basis for the reality of whether banks have acted fairly. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And I think the final payment you called a solution wasn't. This could be the first step in the solution. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2018-06-18-214	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató, DK Group.
u2018-06-18-215	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I would just like to say very briefly that, of course, we understand that there are reservations as to how legally or economically feasible the solutions contained in the proposal are, how good they are. It's totally okay. We are here in Parliament to debate and talk about these things. We understand that our Fidesz fellow Members are not convinced that this is a good bill. But we are not asking you to adopt this proposal in this form, but we are asking you to be at least willing to talk about it; to allow us to debate this very important problem here in Parliament and to find a solution together. We are asking you to hear the request of thousands of Hungarian families at least so much that you are willing to use the Parliament for what it is for; not to conduct political products, not hate campaigns, but to talk about real problems here and try to find real solutions together. That is why we will support the inclusion of the proposal in the series because we think it is an opportunity to look for solutions. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2018-06-18-216	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP Group.
u2018-06-18-217	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There's been a lot of talk in the last few weeks about our Fundamental Law, so I'd say it's the Fidesz Fundamental Law. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that I believe that you have never read this Fundamental Law in your stinking life, because if you had read it, you would be able to quote interesting sentences now. Allow me one sentence from the Fundamental Law:, We acknowledge that human existence is based on human dignity. We confess the duty of helping the fallen and the poor. Mr. Secretary of State! Mr. Fidesz Congressman! Do you understand? ! This Fundamental Law was adopted by you to help the fallen. Let me draw your attention to something very important. The extension of the eviction moratorium this spring was only in one interest that we were facing elections. That's the only reason it was extended for a month. I would now like to draw your attention to the fact that in 2019 there will be elections and elections to the European Parliament. Then I would ask you to apply the same instrument again that was used in March 2018: to extend the eviction moratorium for this reason and to decide differently than in the Judicial Committee. Only because of this, when they no longer have a conscience, they do not know their own Fundamental Law; only because people can vote for you again and try to make them believe that they are important to them, and not only their self-interest is important in this House; they can only do something for the people if they want to sit in the ministerial seat again. That's what I'm asking you to do. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]] [[17.40]]
u2018-06-18-218	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio, Dialogue Group. Here you go.
u2018-06-18-219	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, The Group of Dialogue supports the inclusion of the series of subjects, especially because two years ago we submitted twice the same bill, on all occasions unfortunately Fidesz voted off this. Moreover, the judgment of the European Court of Justice states two new things that might be worth considering in order to actually vote in favour of this bill. The judgment refers to a disadvantaged, vulnerable consumer. The Hungarian courts only recognize the average consumer who has been informed, although the Hungarian population is a little less informed in terms of financial awareness than the Western population. Otherwise, it would be the government's job to change this state. Moreover, the judgment of the European Court of Justice states that, in the case of amounts wrongly cleared, it may be that, in the case of loans cancelled before 1 February 2015, the termination was not even lawful, so at the exchange rate of the Hungarian National Bank, if we count the repayments paid by debtors without an interest rate increase, then there may not have been any repayments or even overpayments at the time of termination. So on this basis, I would ask that the Fidesz Members also consider voting in favour of this series of articles. Thank you.
u2018-06-18-220	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to speak. I don't see any contact. I'll ask Congressman László Varga... [[For signal:]] Sorry, I got the signal late. Thanks for your help. So I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Demeter, Fidesz Group, in two minutes. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-06-18-221	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Bad legislation and supervision before 2010 [[Uproar, interrogations from the ranks of MSZP and DK.]] and the international financial and economic crisis that unfolds after 2008 [[Noise, interrogations from the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] indeed, a multitude of debtors have been severely disadvantaged, and I consider it a very hypocritical attitude from both Mr Bellozó and the others, that those who caused this problem are now acting in a hypocritical manner for political gain. I think that the government has done a great deal to help foreign exchange lenders, and I trust that it will continue to do so. LIII of 1994 on judicial enforcement has been implemented. Law 303. Re-regulation of § 4 of the Act, which aimed at extending the moratorium on eviction that had already been applied. In 2014, the government prepared regulatory solutions that are able to tackle rapidly and effectively the consequences of the unfairness of contract terms which affect a wide range of consumers, which form part of consumer loan agreements. The protection of the consumer has been given priority in the legal settlement of issues relating to the consumer loan agreement, and examples are the law on the unit of law or the law on clearing. Those two laws regulate the detailed rules for the suspension and suspension of proceedings and enforcement procedures in relation to matters pending specific measures to protect debtors. The T/13. The proposal for a regulation does not contain the necessary measures and regulatory proposals to address the problems raised in the explanatory memorandum. Of course, I also agree that this should be helped, and I consider Congressman Varga's comment to be perfectly correct. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] and I therefore propose further discussions. Thank you very much. [[Gergely Harvestó: We should do it here in Parliament. That's what it is.]]
u2018-06-18-222	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Varga, as rapporteur, who wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-06-18-223	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Firstly, I thank the speakers of the opposition groups for their contributions. I think that their support is important, and it is important that at least there is unity among opposition representatives on this issue. I wouldn't comment on the things that concern the past. I think that, in its own way, a lot of opposition representatives have tried to help with the issue of foreign exchange credentials, regardless of whether they belong to a faction or not. I myself held a lot of reception hours for them, and there were many suggestions for our group to use in their behalf. I thought for a moment that the debate would be over without a pro-government vote, which I would have been very, very sorry for, I sincerely say. Then finally, Zoltán Demeter commented, and really his last few sentences were just encouraging, and the rest were obviously in the spirit of the political struggle that I now find very unfortunate. They are constantly pointing back before 2010 otherwise, so it is very clear that this arrangement, i.e. foreign currency lending, could have been introduced at all because of decisions taken during the first Orbán government. It is very clear that there was an economic crisis in 2008, which has indeed caused a significant loss of exchange rates, but during the change of government, the exchange rate of 1 Swiss franc came back to about 184 HUF, and really flew away after the change of government due to several irresponsible pro-government statements due to the government's forging policy. But I'm gonna finish this right here, and we're gonna change that. But I don't think that's the point in this concrete proposal. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] The point is that we need a quick and immediate solution, Congressman. If our proposal is now adopted, such a rapid and immediate solution can be reached. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-06-18-224	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on Wednesday's meeting. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CXII on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information follows. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to Law No 17 for harmonisation purposes. The government referral is T/335. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. [[Noise.]] It would be an honor to be allowed to continue with the work. Thank you for your understanding. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask the rapporteur if he would like to speak now in this part of the debate. [[For signal:]] Mr State Secretary points out that he intends to speak at a later stage in the debate. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I give the floor to Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio, Dialogue Group.
u2018-06-18-225	Thank you, Mr. President. If there is such a technical possibility, I would like to give my colleague, Bence Tordai, the opportunity to comment. [[For signal:]] Then he'll be in touch.
u2018-06-18-226	Congressman, without further ado. If Congressman Bence Tordai hits the button, it's his chance. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-06-18-227	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, or who is here representing the government in this fluttering and exciting debate. I have already said in the keynote speech that Fidesz has not done the work that the European Commission and the European Parliament have given it two years to do. The failure of Fidesz, because of the laziness of Fidesz 1.7 million entrepreneurs and Hungarian SMEs, has put 60,000 NGOs in a very difficult situation, because there is a need to adjust several times to the changes to the info law and other related laws, and there is no regulation for the deadline of 25 May. Then the Secretary of State replied that they did not have such an obligation, that all the work had been done, and that, after this is an EU regulation and therefore it is directly applicable in Hungary, they have nothing to do with it. Compared to this, the legislative law has been in place ever since. As I said, it does say that the information law and other related legislation must be adapted to the GDPR in the Hungarian legal order. So the secretary of state has official papers that he lied, and he has official papers for the government that he himself has issued that he has not done this work, he has not been able to govern in this regard. It proved inadequate to carry out its task, and therefore 10 million Hungarian citizens concerned, 1 million 700 thousand Hungarian SMEs and entrepreneurs, and more than 60 thousand NGOs, have made life difficult, and have been beaten to tens of billions of additional costs, or, where appropriate, unnecessary IT and other types of developments or even avoidable data deletions. [[17.50]] I guess from now on, it's not a question of whether things are going well around the government's house or not. Thank you.
u2018-06-18-228	Thank you, Congressman. I ask you, on the part of the factions, someone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State that, as rapporteur, he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Yes.]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-06-18-229	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Firstly, I would like to thank the factions for their cooperative attitude both in the general debate and in the Commission debate. I think that we have been able to clarify what my fellow Member, Bence Tordai, may not have been present after he has not been involved in the debate all along, and perhaps he has not read the minutes that the determining authority will be designated in this amendment. There is practically a possibility that there will be no punishment in the first instance. So the authority can help if there is some slip-up in one of the companies, i.e. there are no obvious consequences for us to vote on the day after tomorrow. As for the other adjustments, we have never said that there is no need to adapt, only the entry into force of the regulation itself is not affected when Hungarian legislation will catch up with EU legislation in this area. So I would reject this part and thank you once again for your support, and I would like to ask you to support this proposal on Wednesday's sitting. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-18-230	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Wednesday's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the 7th amendment to the Fundamental Law of Hungary and the discussion of the summarised amendment follow up. The government referral is T/332. The Commission's non-autonomous text is available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Herczeg, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-06-18-231	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 14 June 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/332 submitted on the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law of Hungary. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution No 46. It was supported by 20 votes in favour, 4 against and 5 abstentions. I would like to inform you in advance that my opposition fellow Members have raised the issue of house abuse several times, but this must also be rejected. I would like to say that both Members and committees have the right to make amendments in the legislative order, and this has been the case in this case. Despite the criticisms expressed by the opposition, the committee's proceedings therefore complied with the provisions of the house rules. To sum up the proposal: the amending proposal contains a new paragraph 4 of Article R of the Fundamental Law, which makes it a duty for all organs of the State to protect the Christian culture as well as constitutional identity. In Europe, there are currently processes that have led to the transformation of Europe's traditional cultural image. And Christian culture is a universal value, the preservation of which is of paramount importance, and it is therefore necessary to show the state's protective role at the basic level of law. Dear House, It is also significant to point out that two cases of home protection are distinguished by the adopted proposal. The home as the last resort of a tired man, namely the rest of the home, is under Article VI of the Fundamental Law. It is directly related to private and family life. Unlike this, the home as a physical place to be protected by the Fundamental Law XXII. It shall also be included in this Article. In addition, the motion is subject to Article XXII. The purpose of this Article is to ensure that it is prohibited to live in public areas, i.e. the protection of public areas and the establishment of appropriate conditions for urban life. The conditions are provided by both the government and the municipalities by a number of means. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us will serve the sovereignty of the Hungarian nation in the future, strengthen our identity and ensure that we create the protection of the local population and our public structure in connection with these conditions. I ask you to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-06-18-232	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Pál Völner, as rapporteur, that he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate. [[Dr. Pál Völner: No.]] It says no. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. Representatives will now take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute speech during the debate. First of all, I would like to ask Mr Tamás Herczeg that he would like to speak again as a pre-notified speaker. [[Tamás Herczeg: No, thank you.]] As the Commission's position and your position coincide, it does not wish to speak again at this stage of the debate, if I have understood correctly. I give the floor to Mr Gergely Arató, on behalf of the DK Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-06-18-233	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Unfortunately, we have not been able to share the position of the majority of the Legislative Committee that this would be a house-ruled proposal, because you have practically smuggled a complete eighth amendment of the Constitution into the seventh amendment, so that the Legislative Committee could become acquainted with this proposal the day before. Obviously, the sole purpose of this proposal was to avoid having to weigh these proposals in the general debate and then in the committees, but to discuss this in a pleasant, family-like night debate only in front of the Parliament's plenary session, as only a Member and State Secretary participate in the debate, showing how much Fidesz is concerned about this amendment when it is not a political product. This proposal therefore, firstly, does not comply with house rules and does not meet the requirements of parliamentary democracy. If there were constitutionality in Hungary, there would be parliamentary democracy in Hungary, and there would be a Constitutional Court protecting it, then this proposal would fail for formal reasons as well. There is, of course, a content problem. You lay down an obligation to public authorities, to protect Christian culture, which they cannot comply with. After all, as one of our Fidesz fellow Members said very wisely at the committee meeting, we should first define exactly what is a Christian culture, what is it that public authorities need to protect, what exactly this concept means. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking here about the Fundamental Law, not a political statement, not a statement from the Fidesz Congress or a statement from the Prime Minister on Friday morning. Here words must have meaning, and must have meaning in a legal sense. When you set obligations, there is no substantive legal content behind them, either in international law or in Hungarian law. However, this kind of amendment opens the way in a very dangerous direction. It opens the way for public bodies not to defend legality, not to enforce written and familiar laws, but to protect what you think is a Christian culture. This kind of thinking runs counter to European culture, contrary to what you referred to before the agenda, because European culture has been about the rule of law over religion for centuries now. For centuries, it has been about the fact that the laws that can be understood have settled our society, and not the worldview of someone, whether the majority or the minority, the worldview. In Hungary, in the case of Christianity, it belongs to the minority, because only a minority of the population in Hungary is a believing Christian. [[18.00]] But it doesn't really matter. The point is that the direction in which you are going with this amendment is the path of ecclesiastical states, religious fundamentalism, the path of the Islamic State and Iran, the path that is actually threatening this European culture. You are attacking European culture when you turn religion into a source of law. And how they don't mean it, it shows what they do at the other point of the fundamental law amendment. 'Cause you're not gonna eliminate the homeless on your own. I wish it were that simple. I wish it was enough to write in the Fundamental Law that there are no more homeless people. That's not what you're doing. You're ordering homelessness to be punished. You are not looking for a solution to the problems of homeless people, nor are you trying to prevent them, as we have seen from their attitude towards foreign exchange credit issues. The only thing you write in the Fundamental Law is that anyone who lives on the streets in a lifestyle can be punished. They're creating an opportunity for that. And that doesn't solve anything, but you know it. As I recall, in 2012, after the infringement law, and after the announcement of the Constitutional Court, the penalty for staying in the public area was entered in the Fundamental Law in 2013. Today, there are laws on the basis of which action can be taken in these matters. There's a metropolitan decree, there's district decrees, there's municipal decrees, there's a law of misdemeanor, which makes it possible. And what's real? The reality is that no such procedure has been launched for years, it was a single month when the number of such proceedings exceeded 100; they will be surprised: in 2014, during the municipal elections. So you are now opening the way for a rule in the Fundamental Law that is not effective, does not help to protect public areas, does not help to solve the problems of homeless people, does not help anything but campaign with it. And that doesn't make any sense. Finally, I would like to confirm that you have rejected all amendments to the debate on the Fundamental Law which would have alleviated the obvious violations, the obvious violations of fundamental rights contained in this fundamental law amendment, and which would have alleviated the occupation of the judicial system, the abolition of the independence of the courts. This proposal was already inadequate to be included in the Fundamental Law of a democratic country, and the amendments did nothing to help, but made the situation worse. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-06-18-234	Dear Parliament, To be spoken, Congressman Anett Bősz... Congresswoman, independent congressman. My apologies for the slip of the tongue. In the meantime, I would like to thank you for your cooperation, and I would like to present this meeting to Vice President Sneider. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]]
u2018-06-18-235	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, If you, gentlemen and ladies, wish to include the protection of Christian values in the Fundamental Law, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the operation of the government will now be contrary to the Fundamental Law. How does the government hate campaign fit into Christian values? How does it fit into Christian values that you distinguish between man and man? I would like to pay attention to two important Christian values, free will, and neighborly love, if you will, to the value of freedom and responsibility. If these two values are taken seriously, they cannot register the so-called Christian culture, or at least what you mean by that, they cannot put it into the Fundamental Law. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause in the opposition benches.]]
u2018-06-18-236	Thank you. I welcome my fellow Members. I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Bellozó, who is coming in right now. We'll wait for him to take his place.
u2018-06-18-237	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just went out to find out what line I'm gonna be in. But I found out pretty quickly. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, My speech will not be long, because I think that the seriousness and frivolity of the situation will be presented by the pro-government representatives themselves. I could ask you simply what we're talking about here. What kind of argument is this, somebody gonna tell me? ! What's going on? Is this the process of constitutionalization, Congressman? The fact is, in a completely illegal procedure, the Fundamental Law is being amended. Nor does it help that you sit on the Legislative Committee with a two-thirds majority and, apparently, with any argument, you are voted in a non-disrupting manner everywhere, as your bosses expect you to do. It doesn't mean that it can't be a Fundamental Law or a Constitution, but, as they say, it doesn't change a municipal decree in the way you've just done it; it's just illegal, and you know it. Probably the cynical reason they don't care about it is because even though we'd be lifting the Fidesz machine with a bunch of hands again, don't sign it, János!, the President of the Republic would probably send it to the Constitutional Court, and there wouldn't be anything happening. But it's really insane that their only representative comes in here from the Fidesz faction, reading a paper, or a lecture by the board, on their constitution, on their constitution, on their constitution, what they call the Fundamental Law, by which the previous one was thrown out and made for themselves, and being accepted here, in this room, not so long ago, making a big deal about what the other millions of people in the country think about it. But this is supposed to be your sacred document. And we're gonna sit in here, and I don't know... terrible! In fact, the opposition representatives are likely to be a little more interested because they know precisely that what is written in this Fundamental Law goes against the interests of the people who live here at many points. And I'm not going to go over every part of it because it's really not a general debate that we've been through. There's everything in this proposal from angle to plane. By the way, it does look like a bad fidesz flyer. [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] About the weight of this question is being taken seriously, as I understand it. But it certainly has what I would like to say here, and I really will finish it; that you in this proposal, besides a lot of other things, know exactly what everyone in this country knows, is finally coming at the independent justice system of Hungary, and you cannot go without saying a word. And the reason why you can't go without saying anything is because this isn't about the opposition or the government. It doesn't depend on politicians or any kind of party stand or talk about anything. This is the sacred interest and right of every Hungarian citizen, otherwise fought out, so that a single government cannot subdue independent justice. This only happened in Hungary during the darkest periods. There were some of them in the previous century, it's fact and truth. But I think that too many people have sacrificed too much to respect this core value, and it cannot be subverted under daily political or economic interests. When an entrepreneur will face the fact that judges appointed for their convenience will decide economic matters in court in favour of their convenience or economic interests, their oligarchs, then they will find out what we talked about here in Parliament. When ordinary citizens or civilians realize that they will have to be taken not by the letter and spirit of the law, but, let us say, by the justification of the Fidesz amendment proposal, they will find out what we talked about here. And I think that the weight of this thing is far greater than the way you do it, and as you honor this debate. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-18-238	Thank you. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm. [[18.10]]
u2018-06-18-239	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Several of us have already spoken on this issue from our group, and I do not intend to multiply the word for long, but I will try to grab the voice that my fellow Member Tamás Harangozó has raised and speak as such. For a lawyer, when he was studying his studies at the university, and he was studying constitutional law and state and law theory, at least when I was at that university, these questions were so-called sacred matters. Our teachers also talked about this as if we were in a church, and it was as if they were trying to teach the sanctity of our profession, and we took over this spirituality ourselves. If I recall these lectures, the seminars, the exams on constitutional law, which were about constitutionality, which were about not being a citizen at all, a lawyer will have to represent this question, what kind of thinking it should be, and in what way it should represent this sacred matter, compared to all those 8 years of constitutionalization simply to the extent of this science and the sacrament that constitutional law means that it cannot really be addressed with words, at least not with words that bear ink. I very much hope that there will be students in universities, in doctoral schools over the next decades who will be able to process your constitution and demonstrate to future generations that no, no, never to quote the words of my dear friend Brenner Koloman in front of me. This fundamental law amendment is simply nothing more than a propaganda material than a communication bluff. Can anyone really imagine that just because you write in this Fundamental Law terms that are intended to prevent immigration, for example, will that really prevent immigration? That's not what's gonna stop immigration! This will not prevent the implementation of any international treaty, but will prevent it if there will be a united force in this society, in this society there is a strong defence, there is a strong police force, there is a strong national consciousness. And it is possible to describe any Christian culture and identity on the paper if it is not in the emotions and hearts of Hungarian society! The polls may have had a fear, but the fear wasn't there because he feared for his nation, but the small, tiny segment that he still had in life. The pensioner who received HUF 50,000 in his home did not think that he would vote for you on the basis of his national emotion, because you are protecting Hungarian society from migration, but is afraid of his own tiny, acquired and still preserved existential circumstance. You can't build a nation on this. You can't build on this relationship with which or under which a Fundamental Law actually operates the union of this nation, the survival of this nation! [[Interjection in the ranks of Jobbik: That's right!]] I feel that such a bill could be tabled here, for example, if I could see next to it that it would indeed be an effective, fair, social, future-generation social policy, education system and health care. Because the Fundamental Law can be amended every ten minutes, because two thirds of them can write anything in it at any time, but if there is no such effective government work, and there is no conscious society that stands up and everyone does their part, no matter how much they want to change any Fundamental Law, there will never, ever be a result. And what they always forget is that from M1 News to Echo TV News until TV2's silly news, they forget to say it every time they say that, yes, we're going to be discussing Stop Soros now that, but please, we can make any fundamental amendment to the law, international conventions must be respected. It is also part of the Fundamental Law: we are bound by international conventions, agreements, commitments, the EU Treaty. There's no fundamental law that can break that. And I would like to stress that there is not one person in the Jobbik faction, party and party leadership who wants to support migration. We now see that 100 percent of the political palette is covered, and no one wants to see a large number of people with different quality of life, a different view, a mass immigrant because we know that they may not be able to integrate, but one thing is certain that Hungarian society is not fit to accept them. Besides, our resources are extremely limited. So here's the thing: no one wants that. But with this amendment of the basic law, this cannot be prevented, and I will not ask the question that, if tens of thousands of people show up at the border, who will protect them in what way, because we already know: in 2015, the Fidesz-KDNP government failed because 60,000 people could pass through Hungary. In the country whose government, let's say, we would have led, we couldn't have been able not to drive 60,000 people, but a thousand people couldn't drive through the country, but there was basically only one reason why not: because we didn't want to make a communication bluff out of it, we didn't want to scare the society of Budapest with the sight of migrants. Right? Because we also know that not only did 60,000 people come in because of clumsiness, but also because it was very useful for the government, so that there was no need to talk about corruption and its associates, the fear of migration took away people's reasonable judgment, while stealing the country from them and the resources of future generations. But let me get into the details for a second. It's a private home violation. It's a protest in front of certain politicians' houses. I always say, with great respect, that the politician who works for society will never be shown in front of his house. Because there were several ministers in this government and in the previous government, there are several ministers, and there are several ministers of state who will not show up in front of his house, nor will they then, because the quality of their work is not considered so bad by society as to have to express their protests in front of his house. A society isn't built on the fact that it wants to be shown at all costs. A society is based on its desire to live in peace, and when it uses the means of protesting either in groups or in mass, it is because it has no other means. I myself would never fear, as a politician, as a leading politician, that they would appear in front of my house. Why not? Not because I do my job fairly, and I always do all the social groups, their interests, their desires and the expectations that everyone else has sworn to do when I represent them either in the House or in the Ministries according to their order and manner. So I think that this pass should not have been introduced, because, by the way, I note modestly: the grievance you're writing here is a violation of your private home, now, will you define that again? Physical harm? Verbal abuse? Noise? Or is it just that there's a lot of people there? Or can't you go through the door? Or can't you open the garage door? What will be the extent of the injury? We know that there will be a law in which something will be defined, because this is just a starting step, but I am already telling you that there will be a lot of mistakes in it, and even in the interpretation of the law that the judges should be doing, it will not be easy either. The next important issue is the administrative court. We've talked about this before, but I've seen the signs since then because the various legislative proposals are coming before the House when it says that other legal cases will be brought before this court. This is always what creates mistrust: what will be a different case? So, what's this other case gonna be? [[18.20]] We can already see that disputes arising from the economic interests of their oligarchs will be passed on as other cases. What mistrust factor will this result in in society again? Oh, my God, they even want to judge their disputes with their own judges, their own courts, their own supreme court. In vain, Minister Trocsányi says that 70 years ago was the case, and I want to return to it, because it was good, and I, as a lawyer, feel that from now on the judicial system of Hungarian society will be the most perfect; because that is what we heard both at the hearing of the Commission and at the time of presenting the bill. It's a very nice desire, a very precious thing, an act of a very legal scientist. The only problem is that this government has already lost confidence in people and the legal profession so much that we know that this too can be a cause for enormous abuse. And the most important thing about this proposal is that I am running out of time: this is that they do want to smuggle an eighth amendment of the law into the seventh, so that no one could have known it before us, put it before the committee, there is no way to negotiate it, there is no way to discuss it, there is no way to think about it. And in addition, he wants to introduce a terminology that is both completely foreign to Hungarian society and to Hungarian culture, undefined, and in fact, to be honest, we have no idea what you want to do with this question, and we can only hope that a sick version of dictatorship will not come out of your administration after the amendment of the basic law. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-06-18-240	Thank you, Congresswoman. I am asking my fellow Members, who would like to comment on the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, Congressman László Keresztes has the floor.
u2018-06-18-241	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. At this stage of the debate on the amendment of the Fundamental Law, I would just like to comment briefly, given that I have already touched on this issue today in my speech before the agenda, or that we have actually debated it, or that a debate with Mr Rétvári State Secretary has started. And I'd like to take advantage of the opportunity to return, Mr. Secretary. I would therefore like to respond to some of your earlier statements, and I think it is certainly instructive or symbolic, how you have distorted some facts, Mr Secretary of State. I would like to say that I thank you very much for the contributions of my fellow opposition Members. We can certainly say that today it was the opposition representatives and opposition parties who were worthy of the debate on the amendment of the Fundamental Law. Let us look around in this Chamber, we are facing four pro-government representatives, and I think that this is unworthy of the Fundamental Law, unworthy of the amendment of the Fundamental Law, and unworthy of the problem that you have in principle tabled this amendment to the Fundamental Law, although we know that this is nothing more than a communication catch. The main problem posed by the amendment of the basic law is the challenge of mass immigration in Europe and the protection of Hungarian national sovereignty as a task. I think we all agree that this is an extremely important issue itself, which has been raised in the amendment of the basic law, and that the Stop Soros bill is also partly concerned with this, but we can also see that the proposal for amendment of the basic law itself is inadequate to take real action in this respect. In general, there are statements in this bill, in this salad law, with which one can agree, which are unacceptable, and I believe that these unacceptable proposals have been included in this tabled bill in order to ensure that the opposition cannot vote on it in any way, so that they can continue this issue as a political instrument. Some of the amendments that have been tabled include ideas that can be agreed upon, and some that are also totally unacceptable. At the same time, the procedure itself, even at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, which we have faced, is once again a good symbol of the government's attitude. This kind of amendment, tabled one day before the meeting of the Legislative Committee, which is practically exaggerating beyond the original proposal and which has been discussed for a long time, I also agreed with Mr Harangozó that this was a completely unacceptable procedure, the importance of which was underlined or demonstrated by a pro-government Member, Mr Balla, at the Legislative Committee, because Mr Balla had a lengthy discussion about the fact that the Fundamental Law is a collection of very important values and that the structure of legislation and law must be built on these values. Does this show that you are bringing in values such as the protection of Christian culture as one of the values that came in that these values were not shown two weeks earlier, and this had to be submitted at the last minute? So this procedure itself is unworthy. I would like to add that I myself am not shutting myself down, so as a Christian I also understand what they wanted to present in terms of the protection of Christian values and Christian culture, and I could distinguish it from the question of Christian religion, so that in itself I did not have a problem, but rather by the fact that Christian values do not appear in the work of the Fidesz government, and the Fidesz government does not respect Christian principles and Christian values. Overall, we can say that this amendment to the Fundamental Law, together with the amendments submitted to it, is not suitable to provide a meaningful solution to the extremely important problem raised. It was also symbolic that there was no debate on these issues at the two meetings of the Legislative Committee or at the other debates of the Parliament. I thought it was extremely important to say this at the Committee on Legislative Affairs, and I would like to say, in part, to Mr Rétvári, State Secretary, that I would very much like to hear from the pro-government representatives, either from Mr State Secretary or from any Member, lady, at the committee meeting, the thoughts, the tasks that we must carry out in order to achieve the declared objectives. You have put a lot of things into the May Other about Politics, but I would like to state a few things in response to that. We consider this to be extremely important and we say this in all the forums, and I myself said in Brussels that immigration policy must remain a national competence. But I very much hope that this is not disputed by any opposition force, not by any opposition party. Our task is also very clear that the EU's external borders must be protected, the process of illegal migration must be stopped, because if we cannot do this, then no substantive policy can be discussed until this is done. At the same time, the most important challenge and most important task for us is to explore the real causes of this migration crisis and try to offer solutions to them. The government, on the other hand, is conducting a communication campaign, which has been well underlined by Mr Rétvári's response to my suggestion. I indicated that in 2015 the government led by Viktor Orbán ordered the construction of a temporary reception centre in the town of Martonfa near Pécs, so that it did not have any prior consultation with the municipality or its surroundings. Mr. Secretary of State has given me the answer that the government has not built any reception centre. Indeed, he did not build, because the population prevented it. Martonfa is a small settlement, but the inhabitants of Martonfa, the population of Pécs and the population of the area have prevented the implementation of this dictatorial decision. Secretary of State, if you can, answer me the question that if you were not in your right mind to set up such temporary reception centres, then why is it still in place today, why is the Government Decree on the establishment of temporary reception centres in Martonfa and Sormás. Give me a perfectly clear answer to that, Mr. Secretary, and I may believe you, although your government didn't, that you didn't have such goals. In conclusion, I can say that the government has actually continued its communication campaign in recent years and in the last two weeks, trying to extend it to the next election period. I didn't see any indication that this government was even capable of facing real challenges, real problems. But it may also be that you have no intention, and your presence, the presence of four pro-government representatives, demonstrates how interested you really are in this challenge, which is called a global migration crisis. Thank you.
u2018-06-18-242	I'll ask László Varga if he wants to comment in 12 seconds. [[Dr. László Varga: More than that! Dr. Tamás Harangozó: 3 minutes 9 seconds!]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I was looking down the board. [[Gergely Harvesto: Another Party! They're not united yet! Dr. Tamás Bellozó: This is MSZP!]] It's okay. It's okay. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-06-18-243	Thank you very much. This would indeed have been a challenge for me, Mr President, but I promise I will not be long in this respect, but I have been a little inspired by the intense debate with the pro-government Members and the interactive attitude of the State Secretarys in this debate, and I thought that even I would give some thought. Because I was there at this meeting of the Legislative Committee, and I would refer to what many have used, the constitutional process as a word composition, on which I could say that the committee meeting itself, the time, the circumstances, the content, and the unsanctionedness of the amendments are not worthy of this. [[18.30]] Obviously, you have adopted a one-party Fundamental Law, which in itself is unworthy of organizing and decorating the lives of all the inhabitants of a country as a constitution, as a Fundamental Law, and we have said this many times, but that they do not take themselves seriously, it is truly amazing. On Tuesday, my fellow Member from Bajkai spoke about it, and I note that on the same day that our proposal to extend the eviction moratorium was submitted in connection with the foreign exchange crisis was rejected in the Committee on Justice, and my colleague Tamás Harangozó rightly said that the amendment concerning the protection of Christian culture was recognized by the members of the Legislative Committee on Wednesday, the day before the meeting of the Committee on the Lawmaking. Compared to this, it is shocking that one of their members in this committee, if I remember correctly, said that the Fidesz faction had asked the government to discuss these issues in this constitutional process, and this was discussed by the Parliament. It is one thing that the opposition factions, whose politicians and representatives are sitting here by the will of the electorate, are not taken seriously, it is also outrageous, but we are getting used to this. But in a real constitutional process, I think that they are receptive to the subject, interested people, constitutional lawyers, even the Hungarian society, the Hungarian people, must express their views on such issues of this weight, they must have the opportunity to have social debate on these issues for weeks and months. And then we didn't even talk about the fact that, of course, their specific regulations were capable of organizing our life together here, the common life of the people of Hungary. I don't think so anyway, but you don't want to give me a way to really see this thing as a constitutional process. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-06-18-244	Thank you, Congressman. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see a candidate. I therefore close the debate and give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary.
u2018-06-18-245	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, First of all, I thank you for all the contributions that have been made to the themes of the fundamental law amendment. In advance, the part of the seventh amendment to the Fundamental Law that served to prevent resettlement has already been here before this House. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] So, let's just say, we need to evaluate the voices that support this part of it, because we could have done it before. As we know, this amendment proposal did not receive the two-thirds majority. There were also comments on the establishment of the Administrative Supreme Court. I would like to reassure Members of this House that, if someone had not yet been informed by the press that a working committee was formed from the judges of Mania, the Deputy Vice-President of the OBH, and from university teachers, on 15 June, to draw up proposals for the administrative court, the Supreme Court, and that, of course, in the same way that we have sent an invitation to seven parties and seven factions in connection with this amendment of the basic law, we will also provide the political parties with the opportunity to comment on this work and to discuss this part of the matter. As regards the protection of the home, it has also been mentioned at the seven-party conciliation, and my fellow Members have been familiar with this amendment. We all know that, in the event of a conflict between freedom of expression and home as fundamental rights, this is a distinction. We have a law of assembly in which there is no violation of the right of anyone else under the assembly law, which the courts cannot interpret to this day. [[Gergely Harvesto: Yes, I just don't like your interpretation!]] There is a decision by the Constitutional Court that obliges Parliament to legislate on this subject. It is very fortunate, in this case, that the separation criteria which will then be able to give proper consideration to the Constitutional Court will already appear at the level of the basic law, if, at the time of the conflict, it is necessary to determine which law and in what case it applies. In any case, I would like to reassure everyone that this is not a ban on protests, but a restriction on over-extensive opinions where, let us say, almost cases of abuse of rights could be realised. As far as house regulation is concerned, and the course of the debate itself, all of us who were at the Legislative Committee's meeting know that in a two-hour debate we have been able to discuss this issue, all the amendments that were linked to it. There, too, I expressed my opinion that after the VI. Amendment of Article 21a to Annex XXI to the EEA Agreement shall be amended as follows: It also touched on the article, which is an internal expansion within the proposal itself, which may not be the luckiest, that it happened in the Fundamental Law, but it certainly falls within the framework of the house rule, even if it is based on previous practice. I think I've managed to reach the main points. With regard to Christian culture, if someone has concerns about what this means in Europe, what it means in Hungary, I think the person who has lived here for the past decades may have some idea about it. The congresswoman had an observation that when we studied our constitutional law in university studies in the 1980s. They weren't exactly the same principles to me, where they taught me about the death of such a state and all sorts of other things that we don't believe in anymore. Or there were times when the state itself refused to allow its citizens abroad. It was all part of the legal order we're talking about, so I wouldn't put those two ages in a parallel, I wouldn't compare. What we are talking about here stands the test of international conventions, either the Geneva Convention or the EU Conventions, so we may have debates, but I think these proposals can be defended. I would ask my fellow Members to support the proposal if they are serious about, for example, the restriction of immigration and the prevention of resettlement. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-18-246	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Decisions will take place on Wednesday's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws to the measures against illegal immigration and the discussion of the summarised amendment follow. The government referral is T/333. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Tamás Herczeg, rapporteur of the committee.
u2018-06-18-247	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you very much for the floor. You will probably not appreciate what I am going to say now as a comment in the spirit of interactive and intensive debate, but I will give you the position of the majority of the Legislative Committee, so I will base what I will say on the written text. I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 14 June 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed T/333 on the amendment of certain laws to measures against illegal immigration. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Parliament's resolution of 10/2014 on certain house rules. The Commission supported by 21 votes in favour and 1 abstention. The Legislative Committee has expressed and accepted its own intention to amend further. The security of our country and our citizens is a value that cannot be compromised, so we stand up for the protection of Hungary wherever necessary. Attention should be drawn to activities that are dangerous to our country, dangerous, as the promotion of illegal immigration is contrary to the interests of the Hungarian nation. Accordingly, action should be taken as decisively as possible to protect the country's security against activities which undermine national security. Today, it is clear from practical experience that people who enter Hungary illegally, who are staying in Hungary, will be helped to enter the country not only by international organisations, but also by Hungarian organisations. [[18.40]] In our view, the abuse of the asylum procedure and the organizational activity that facilitates the stay in our country threaten public order and public security to such an extent that even the strictest means of power, such as criminal sanctions, must be combated. These main objectives and restrictions are included in the bill before us. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. Z. Carpathian Daniel: Iron Applause!]]
u2018-06-18-248	Thank you. I would like to ask the author if he would like to comment on the debate now. [[Contra on Charles' signal:]] It says no. The designated Judicial Committee did not draft a rapporteur, so now it is up to its representatives to address the time frame on which the agenda is set. There is no possibility of two-minute comments during the debate. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm.
u2018-06-18-249	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, With this bill, this proposal for a salad law, as we have already said, there will be a lot of misinterpretation and practical problems, because, as we have been accustomed to in the last eight years, this legislation is not tailor-made, it is not exactly understandable. It is very likely that this is why it was invented to ask the law enforcement authorities not to take the text of the law, but to take as a priority the justification for the bill's proposal and the preamble. By the way, I do not think that it was possible to see this in legislation in the world, but in Hungary, this could happen with such power overweight. Although I note modestly, those who are involved in such legislation could have at least as much professional vanity to try to spell out the laws that hundreds of people, practitioners, judges, policemen, prosecutors, and thousands of others would like to be accepted and applied in accordance with the purpose of the law. The Jobbik faction was also extremely constructive in this regard, given that it has made very fair, very precise, very forward-looking proposals and amendments that would have brought about the possibility for practitioners to interpret and apply these laws in the way the legislator would have wanted them to, but not in the first text of the law. But we understood what he meant, in this way we tried to help with these amendments to create legislation that actually serves the purpose. It was very clear when the Commission discussed what the Jobbik faction would have wanted to do by clarifying border insurance retention, what it wanted not only to promote and support immigration, but also to support total illegal residence, a much wider circle. We were shocked at the committee meeting that the pro-government representatives voted against the laws put forward by the government in such a way that they complied with the purpose of the law. So this has never been seen by the world parliament in order to help the governing parties to listen, so they will not be able to apply it well, and you will only be able to pönalize a very, very small circle of helpers; let us expand it, because the aim is to ensure that either the organizers of immigration will receive their decent punishment or prevent it from happening preventively. And no, so I have to say that this kind of attitude is almost self-dangerous, that just because it's not Fidesz-KDNP, we don't accept it. But when we get the statistics from the case-law that we have started an ICS procedure, and because of the inadequacy of the legislation, nine times out of ten had to be abolished, exempted, acquitted of the perpetrators or participants, then there will be a screaming here that, wow, we have to change the law again, and then the 120,000 annual law pages will rise to 180,000, because we will be voting again to amend the amendments to the laws that have been passed, let us say, two years from now. We know what these rules are for, we know what the goal is, but they are not suitable. I would like to talk to you about one more important issue. If the governing forces are two thirds strong enough to make any rules, then I just want to ask why they're not so strong in prevention and recon. According to Hungary's Criminal Code, not only is it possible to investigate, prosecute and prosecute crimes committed in Hungary, but it is also possible to order investigations, seek legal assistance and prosecute crimes committed in Hungary's territory or in Hungary's people abroad. How can it be, please, that we do not receive reports in the M1 News week after week about how many hundreds or thousands of smugglers are being dealt with either in criminal proceedings initiated by Hungary or in criminal proceedings ordered by Hungary or in reports made by Hungary abroad? Because no one thinks that this one and a half million people have come to Europe on foot for the past three and a half years, and because they suddenly woke up in the morning and felt that they were selling everything they had on that day and were heading for Europe? They got here as a result of organized gangs. Where are the criminal proceedings of these organized gangs? Why doesn't the government do everything we can to spend money on the secret service?There's a lot of money going on that our scouts are trying to find out everything, which is against the interests of the Hungarian nation, how is it possible that hundreds of thousands of smugglers came across Serbia to the Serbian border couldn't be caught? So our biggest problem is that we always create legislation, talk about it for hours, and what do we see in practice? Nothing, but you can tell society that we've tried everything by law. But the law hasn't protected the country yet, law hasn't protected women from their rapists, which was a huge propaganda at one time. They say every day that a piece of migrant has raped a man in Europe, but that 200 men do this to their countrymen every day in Hungary never say it. We wish to emphasise that all the amendments tabled by Jobbik's faction were intended to make it more meaningful, more precise, and more appropriate, legislative proposals that could be voted in this House with a calm mind. Everything was blindly rejected by the pro-government representatives, but what was most shocking to me and I must say here in plenary: we discussed such serious legislative packages in the Justice Committee and our proposals were rejected by the pro-government representatives, that there was no piece of paper on the table before them, they did not know what we were talking about. Now there are two pro-government MPs sitting in the parliamentary horseshoe. Their bill, the result of their political work, which is here, and they don't respect us if it's not the entire faction, but at least half of it is here! Doesn't the pro-government politicians care so much about how they're supposed to protect the country? I respect Mr. Jenő Manninger infinitely, I respect Mr. Tamás Herczeg infinitely, people of their kind with a decent, good, good professional background, but forgive me, these two are not enough to see us, oppositionists and, by the way, many citizens as really serious about these proposals. Not to mention the fact that Parliament is financed from the budget, the taxpayers' money. With all due respect, I ask that, now, only by the way of our two fellow Members and the Secretary of State and by the way of the Secretary of State of Rétvári, if you really feel that every sentence you bring in here is born in the interest of society, you should respect the same society and us as your fellow Members by showing that you really are interested in all these questions. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[18.50]]
u2018-06-18-250	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Versus Anett.
u2018-06-18-251	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry that there are so few on the part of the government here, because it is necessary to note that you are threatening people with prisons who perform the tasks in which the Hungarian state failed. The state of a society is no better than how it treats the fallen and its minorities. You, through the Stop Soros Act, are threatening people with prisons who alleviate the disgrace of the rule of law and humanity, which has been deepening in this country since 2010. The question is whether they are doing it because the mere existence and the mere functioning of these civilian groups shows that we are living our lives in this country in the midst of serious government failures. If so, then it is embarrassing in itself, and if not so, then the Stop Soros is simply pure evil. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause in the opposition's benches.]]
u2018-06-18-252	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter.
u2018-06-18-253	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am trying to concentrate everything into this very short 7 minutes that I have at my disposal. First of all, I would like to ask Mr State Secretary to speak to him, be kind in the debate and answer our questions in the debate, not when the Members' speeches are going down when the President closes the debate. After that, you will speak to him only as a rapporteur so that we can no longer respond to this, so that you can have a decent attitude in this. It must be made clear that immigration policy must remain a national competence, but I would like to state here that this was not a question, because no one wants to take it away from Hungary, and we will, of course, insist that this should remain a national competence. In addition, all countries have the right to decide who they want to live with, so Hungary has the right to do so, and we stand by it, and we also stand by it, and we also have to act against illegal migration. The problem here is that the proposal that lies before us is not on a thank-you basis for this purpose. Although the title of the proposal, which is already flawed, or even in its explanatory statement, refers to the government's desire to fight illegal migration, it would want to do anything, but factually, the codified text does not show this at all. So the content of the bill itself does not cover this, and it is clear from this point forward that the government is using it again and exclusively for communication purposes and only as an instrument of power. I would like to point out once again that this proposal will not increase Hungary's security for a moment. We see that a number of amendments have been put in place, and there are some of them that are highly intended for improvement, and we also accept this, but we see that this bill, as it is, cannot be improved, so this is also completely unacceptable. Let me point out that the current government has every means to combat illegal migration, so cheap and wall-to-wall lawyers cannot protect Hungary. The fact that they are now trying to create is not necessary, as there is already the possibility of combating human trafficking as a fact, as well as the possibility of illegal residence. It doesn't matter whether it's for money or not, the Hungarian authorities can act and act. The question here is whether you are competent in this, so you can do this, you have the right tools to function effectively and you want to do it at all. I also find it outrageous, and I think it shows the Government's intentions that this proposal has passed only through the Judicial Committee and, obviously, naturally, the Legislative Committee. Why didn't this come before the Homeland Security and Police Committee? If they were serious about safety, the minimum would have been to bring this proposal before the committee responsible. This has been avoided so far that it is not even possible to have any professional debate on possible solutions, not on the proposal, because what they have drawn up, otherwise I must say, is an extremely weak proposal, too, professionally. And then I would like to say what you should do, and I would like to summarize this in ten points, because I think that the government should govern, but of course we will make our proposals and we will tell you what is affecting Hungary's security, and it is in the interests of the people of Hungary. On the one hand, security controls should be carried out effectively. Unfortunately, this does not fully work now, and the competent organisations should be able to do so. That still doesn't work, Mr. Secretary, and you know it. The second is that the necessary training and preparation of domestic legal and international law must be carried out and ensured for the stock. Three: at the border, adequate working conditions must be ensured for the stock, because there was also propaganda that they did so, unfortunately it is not true. Point four: Hungary's own international commitments must be fulfilled. In the Defence and Police Committee, they must report on what you have implemented from the migration strategy that they adopted in 2013, because I would like to say so here, but we will hopefully have a debate on this in the Defence Committee, and they are very bad at this, and they are not doing well at all. The protection of the European Union's external borders should be strengthened. The increase of Frontex's executive staff to ten thousand people and the allocation of the resources necessary for this must be done, and we expect the Hungarian government to stand by it, as Hungary also has a border that is the external border of the European Union, and I would like to draw everyone's attention to this. Therefore, the strengthening of the executive staff of Frontex will greatly enhance Hungary's security. Furthermore, we expect the government to stand by and take an initiative to establish a new forecasting system in cooperation with the Balkan countries, which can correctly and effectively predict changes in migration flows. This will make it much easier to prepare for changes, and this will greatly increase the effectiveness of the operation of Frontex. By the way, I think Hungary could play an important role in this. As point nine, I would like to point out that the next cycle budget of the European Union will radically increase expenditure on protection and security. This is the priority of the budget of the European Union, yet Hungary wants to adopt it after the elections to the European Parliament. If Hungary's security is important to you, you cannot allow it, it must be accepted before the elections to the European Parliament. Hungary must also stand up, as this will give Member States greater support for protection and protection of borders. And, of course, the settlement bond structure and the loopholes that you have opened and threaten the security of Hungary should be closed. The President of the Venice Commission asked Péter Szijjártó to postpone the adoption of the Stop Soros bill by next Friday, to await the opinion of the Venice Commission. We know that, Mr. Secretary of State, once you have played the Venice Commission, they have come to Hungary with the Hungarian Government, otherwise, no bill [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] He couldn't present, because the old one had already been removed from the series of objects, and this one hadn't been submitted yet. So listen to the President of the Venice Commission and wait for next Friday (the president, by jogging the bell, marks the end of the time frame. ), the opinion of the Committee. And we don't support the bill itself. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-06-18-254	Thank you. I would like to ask my fellow Members if someone else would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see a comment, so the debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State, if he would like to comment. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-06-18-255	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, On 8 April, Fidesz-KDNP was authorised to protect Hungary, protect the security of Hungarian people, prevent illegal migration, illegal immigration. In 2015, those who were here were members of Parliament, remember, in September 2015 Parliament adopted a package of two-thirds, partially-fifty laws that resulted in the creation of so-called triple protection at the border. We've created a lively defense, so the defense could take part in border protection under the law, alongside the police, border fighters. We created, built the legal barrier and built the fence, so the technical or temporary security barrier. [[19.00]] We were able to protect it, but obviously the people who want to smuggle migrants into Hungary are always looking for an opportunity, and the law or protection that was good yesterday may not be good today or tomorrow. Therefore, we had to look for the opportunities, the legal solutions that are capable of preventing illegal immigration today, and they can continue to provide the high level of protection for Hungary and the Hungarian people that we have achieved in recent years, which is recognised at international level and recognised by the Hungarian people, since on 8 April they provided support for these measures. We also received unfounded criticisms of the proposal submitted after the general debate that challenged professionalism. I still refused these unfounded findings on behalf of government officials involved in the drafting of the proposal, since these proposals were made by competent professionals, good patriots, representing the interests of the Hungarian nation. What I would like to point out is that we had two-round seven-party negotiations. So our aim was not to fully accept our proposal without any debate, but to have it followed by the consultation of Minister of Interior Sándor Pintér and the Minister of Justice of Trocsányi that we could present to Parliament the best possible proposal acceptable to the country, or during the parliamentary debate, during the discussion of the amendments, and during the second round debate and during the vote. I would like to stress that we were serious about these discussions. Minister Pintér has offered or asked for opposition proposals to be tabled in both rounds, with which they disagree, to present their amendments to it. Then, during another seven-party discussion on 11 June, the Minister expressed his willingness, for example, to adopt a opposition proposal that was born in order to combat illegal immigration effectively. For example, the prohibition of residence resulting from the amendment of the State Borders Act should not apply to those whose declared valid address has been in the area defined by law for at least five years. For example, support for this proposal also expresses our constructive stand on the initiative to bring the best proposal to Parliament in the interests of the country, and Parliament adopts the best proposal. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Let me also address what has been said in today's debate. Mrs Varga-Damm Andrea, I am sorry that there are no serious words here. He said the law hasn't protected his country yet. This is not true, because the legislative package adopted in September 2015 - legal protection - has effectively fulfilled its vocation and has contributed to the fact that Hungary is a safe country. What also expressed her doubt that the laws would increase security, I would like to say that in the 2010-14 cycle we adopted the new Criminal Code, the new Code of Violation, and we strengthened the police. I told you earlier about the steps the government has taken with the introduction, entry into force of the new service law, the salary increase. We can say that the number of known crimes has decreased by 50 percent compared to 2010. I think this is a result that speaks for itself, and we have achieved this result at the time, and we have been able to achieve it by putting this huge illegal migratory pressure on the country since the summer of 2015. The police fought on two fronts, maintaining Homeland Security, improving Homeland Security, and protecting external borders. In response to the voice of Congresswoman Márta Demeter, who says that the proposal is technically weak, I must also reject this. As far as your ten-point proposal or your stated goals are concerned, I would like to say that the training of the police, the training of police officers and border fighters are always renewed, always handing over knowledge to the personnel involved so that they can perform their duties with the best efficiency. Training is also constantly renewed, responding to new challenges, and the trainers pass on this knowledge to the best of their knowledge. I am not going through the ten points now, because I have noted it, but I think it is clear that the government's aim is to ensure that the conditions for the service of personnel, both in terms of clothing, rest, food and accommodation, in terms of equipment, in terms of weaponry, in terms of the technical information system serving him, are as good as possible. So what we intend to do, the government, the Ministry of the Interior, the police department's intention to do is to do the job that the police, the border hunters are about to do to the best of their ability. We are in favour of increasing the role of Frontex. We also supported the creation of the European Border Guard and the European Coast Guard. We regret that, on the one hand, this was created with 1,500 people, and that is, in effect, a minimum number of border guards. We believe that effective units should be set up, even for the European Coast Guard and the European Border Guard, which really protect borders. We support this, we say that, and we follow this policy. We have made this clear either at the European Council or at the European Justice and Home Affairs Council, and we will continue to represent this position in the future, as well as in the future. As to which committee will hold the general debate on the bill, the Parliament's internal affairs will be the subject of which designated committee will hold it. He resented the fact that the Defense Committee didn't discuss it. According to the house rules, it is possible to do so and not determined by the author. The congresswoman would have had the opportunity to attend a meeting of the committee that discussed this; I think this criticism is also unfounded. Dear Parliament, I believe that we have reached the final stage of the negotiation of a bill that is very important for Hungary's security and the stage before the vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament and my fellow Members to support this proposal on Wednesday, with the vote of Hungary, the security of the Hungarian people, as this contributes to the security of Hungary and the Hungarian people. Let me refer to the unfounded opposition opinions that appeared in the summer and autumn of 2015, and when we discussed the bill in September, this was considered unnecessary, wrong and unfounded, but the time proved that these proposals were correct, since they contributed effectively to the security of Hungary and the Hungarian people. Let me give you a final thought: security is the most important common value in the world today. This is what citizens are looking for in all countries, and this is what they value most, because it defines everyday life, conditions of prosperity. I hope that Hungary will continue to be a safe country in the future. That's what we work for. I ask the Honourable Parliament to support this endeavour for the government and to accept the Stop Soros bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-18-256	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Decisions shall be taken on Wednesday's meeting. Dear Parliament, The 1997 LXXVIII on the shaping and protection of the built environment follows. a general debate on the bill amending the law on the regulation of the construction of high-rises until closure. The government referral is T/406. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr. Bence Tuzson, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, author of the item on the agenda.
u2018-06-18-257	Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and Gentlemen, The vision of our capital city or Hungary is a value that I think we all have a duty to preserve. With regard to urban development, the development and regulation of the country, the rules that apply to certain provisions, such as so-called high-rises, should be reviewed on a regular basis. [[19.10]] After all, not only in the history of a country, in the history of a city, but also in the long-term, not only in a way that affects our lives, but also for our children, for our grandchildren. Allow me to make one or two comments on the historical background before I go into the details of the regulation, as the fate and history of the high-rises in Budapest and Hungary are worth mentioning. Almost everywhere in the world, or in many places, there were rules in which the size of a building was adjusted to some symbolic point. For example, St. Peter's Basilica in Rome, a building higher than St. Peter's Basilica, could not be built. Or in America, Washington, the Capitol building, the top of the Capitol was the point at which no building could be built higher. In the case of Budapest, there are such points, and there are points where a higher building should not be built or should not be worth building. However, we can also say about Budapest that, for historical reasons, there are relatively few buildings or buildings that can be called tall buildings. In Budapest there are several buildings, symbolic peaks, domes, to which it is worth adjusting the size of the high-rises. The most characteristic is perhaps the building we are in right now, since the highest point of the Parliament is 96 meters. The building itself is this high. I would just like to say in parentheses that many people think that the peak of the Parliament is 96 metres, because they remember the millennium with this height. But the reality is, even when they started building the building, they didn't know when the millennium would be celebrated. It was designed a year earlier, so in reality, it's not what heights are adapted to. But the height of the St. Peter's Basilica is 96 metres high, as the highest point reflects the same height. So this is the point where a higher building in Budapest is neither worth nor should be built. It wasn't built any higher than this, by the way. There are still tall buildings that have historically developed this way. For example, the southern tower of the Matthias Church is 76 meters high. It is a little different there, because it is the building on Várhegy, so obviously the proportions are different from the perspective of the view of Budapest. But it's a 76-meter building. Or, for example, the current dome height of the Buda Castle, the palace was not always this large, because the original plans were different, but at the moment it was 56 meters high. These are the heights that were characteristic of Budapest's history in the past. Of course, in the history of Budapest, tall buildings were built that exceeded 65 meters. Such is the building of SOTE in Oradea Square, which exceeds 65 metres, is 89 metres high, or the ORFK headquarters, which has a total size of 94 metres, so it is a very tall building, including the tower on top. But there are seven church towers over 65 meters, and there are eight chimneys, chimneys, or towers that exceed this size. Historically, in Hungary and Budapest, there were several steps in the way the rules now in force, first the height of the buildings began to be dealt with in 1914, when the altitude of the buildings was set at 25 metres in Budapest. The real high house dispute, which was already a debate on the basis of age requirements, began in 1953. It was then that the question of how high buildings can be built in Budapest was raised, and this debate was on fire later on after the change of regime. At the time, the architects tried to respond professionally, and in 95 there was a regulation that allowed the construction of high-rises compared to a specific external line, but at that time there was no height limit, and in 98 the building of ORFK was built with its height of 94 metres, and another office building, which exceeded 50 metres with its height of 53 metres. In 2002, a new regulation was in place in Budapest, a new regulation was established, according to which the height of the buildings was set at 55 metres, and accordingly, this regulation was in force until 2006 or later. In 2006, the buildings at the Árpád Bridge could be built, which were quite tall, since the construction rules at that time allowed both the Danube and the Europe Tower to be built. You can still see this on both sides of the Árpád bridge as two rather large, tall buildings. In 2015, the capital adopted another regulation, which was already a more complex regulation, in which different regulatory lines were defined. There were areas where buildings between 65 and 90 meters high were allowed, and then, in addition to the typical ones, in places outside Hungária körút, the height of between 90 and 120 meters was allowed. Given the importance of building buildings and constructions for the development of a city, it is worth considering whether we are raising this type of regulation to a statutory level and setting the height limits that apply to the height of buildings at a legal level. We are particularly talking here about the highest point of the building, which is separate from the height of the building. So we consider the point of building height when the ground floor meets the building and the highest point from there. The height of the building is an averaged height, meaning that the height of the building may be higher or lower than the highest point of the building. In this respect, an amendment was tabled from the members of the government, i.e. I tabled an amendment. So allow me to add my own comments in this regard, given that these two are now being discussed together in this form by the House, this is already before the Parliament, and it includes amendments compared to the current bill submitted. Together with the amendment of the submitted bill, the new regulation would be that the height of the building in Hungary and Budapest would be basically 65 metres high, so this would be the highest point of the building. Deviation to a height of up to 90 metres would only be possible if the central planning council agreed. Therefore, there would be a special procedure in which not only would the central planning council have an opinion right, but its decision would be decisive, i.e. if he does not find it appropriate to build this building from a cityscape point of view, his opinion should be taken into account with binding force during the procedure. Of course, changes to current legislation and regulation could also affect acquired or acquired rights. Accordingly, we would like to establish legislation in such a way as to include ongoing procedures, but procedures where there is already a valid construction permit would not be covered by the current legislation. In particular, the bill mentions investments that are priority for the national economy. Here, the law provides for the possibility to enforce the specific nature of the legislation in the case of investments that are priority for the national economy and other types of construction problems, i.e. to allow a derogation from the existing legislation in the exploding regulation accordingly. [[19.20]] In the case of investments that are priority for the national economy, the legislation would still contain clarification requirements, so there would be rules that were not clear in the past, but here would clarify the nature of the regulation, what is meant by the priority investment in the national economy and the regulatory scope of the resulting regulation. There is one issue that we would also like to tie up in this legislation, which is also related to the built environment, which is the obligation to carry out individual settlement planning tasks, as Étv. 60. §2 of the Act provides for the introduction of new settlement arrangements. Here the law imposes an obligation on municipalities. According to the current rules, their rules should be adapted to the national rules currently in force by 31 December 2018. However, given that this is also a task and responsibility for small municipalities, there are a number of municipalities that have not yet fulfilled this obligation, so by amending the law this deadline would be extended by one year, i.e. until 31 December 2019. In short, this is included in the current bill, together with the amendment that has already been tabled. I ask you to support this proposal accordingly. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-18-258	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Jenő Manninger, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-06-18-259	Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill amends the concept of a tower building, taking into account the building rights laid down in the existing construction and construction regulations, and defines the highest point of buildings that can be considered as tower houses in 90 metres, including, as the Secretary of State has said, all other equipment, from building engineering to antennas. As far as tower buildings are concerned, there have always been serious debates in the building of the city, as we have heard. I would like to add that the Eiffel Tower in Paris was also opposed by many, but it is now difficult to imagine Paris without the Eiffel Tower. And in Budapest, we can say that in general, we had to take special care and take care that the 19th edition of the 19th edition of the Act, At the end of the century, XX. The city and the city formed at the beginning of the 20th century should not be changed in essence, and the buildings that are significantly taller are virtually around the Hungária boulevard, because they are changing the urban landscape. It is very important that the new proposal also regulates 90 meters by state. I think that this is very good, because it makes it possible to preserve the unique and internationally protected silhouette of the country's unique architectural and image motifs at European level. I also have to mention another task that is important for the municipalities, especially for the smaller municipalities. The amendment of the limitation period of 31 December 2018 for the application of local construction regulations currently in force in the Construction Act will help the municipalities to carry out their local settlement planning tasks. Therefore, in order to support the architectural quality of the settlements, the government will ensure the use of settlement arrangements governing the local order of construction for a further year, i.e. until 31 December 2019. I would ask my fellow Members to support the bill with their votes, and I can also say that we support the bill on behalf of the Fidesz faction. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-06-18-260	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mrs Lóránt Hegedűs, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2018-06-18-261	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Deputy Secretary of State, The bill before us is not a new thing, since it is a larger package of laws, which is Otrt. , the Balaton Act and the agglomeration Act, as well as the fourth amendment of the Municipal Image Protection Act and the amendment of the Construction Act would now have been about the change of the n plus individual ones, the government submitted it in December of last year. It couldn't have been a trial, it was only a five-party negotiation in this case. This place of law, which would have applied to high-rises and high-rises, was already in it at the time, but it was then settled with one sentence of lakonic simplicity. This sentence said, if I may, I would read from this original bill that there is no tower in the area intended for installation and not intended for installation. This sentence closes the entire territory of Hungary without any gaps, so there is no area of any Hungarian government that is not classified in one or another group. So they could have said that a tower house could not be built in Hungary, but before that you had carefully defined what the concept of a tower would mean. I have now heard with shock and surprise from the Secretary of State that you, as rapporteur, have overwritten an amendment which is even longer than the original law. I am now a little puzzled, Mr President, about what we are actually talking about, because it was a rather strange genre that the Secretary of State told us that he spoke at the same time as the rapporteur on the subject and also as an opponense. But I would stick to the subject, therefore, the bill, because the amendment you tabled is actually a whole new story in many respects. So, we weren't talking about 90 meters there, but the original bill says it's only at 65 meters. Otherwise, there is no such thing as a central planning council, obviously to the settlement at the time, where appropriate, as we are talking about the Municipality of Budapest, obviously it is the council of plans. An opinion can say that a 90-metre-high structure could be built in Hungary or not. In addition, under the original bill, the construction of a tower building will not be permitted in the proceedings initiated after the entry into force of this law and in the procedures opened before the entry into force, and in addition to the final building permit issued. Technically, I just have to say again that in any case that might come to mind, unless the construction log has been opened. Now let's get to what this bill is really about. We know that on the Kopaszi dam, the Garancsi bought a large enough area with the help of Eximbank for HUF 16.5 billion, where they would have made it possible to accommodate 30-40 thousand people in total, and one of the buildings of this idea of installation would have been this 120-metre-high building, which UNESCO itself has itself denied. He drew the attention of the City Council and the General Assembly to the fact that they should not modify or, if they have already been amended, withdraw the idea of the City Planning Code that such a height building could be installed here. If you have already said alignment points, and in the first nine minutes of your speech you have told us the history of construction of the last two thousand years in a very colourful way, then let us say that you considered the Gellért Hill to be an adjustment point, compared to which this building would have been only 10 metres less. So far we have talked about the 96-meter dome and its peak, about the St. Stephen's Basilica as a fairly significant building in Hungary, Budapest, and now there was a building the size of Gellérthegy. But UNESCO also said that the status quo, which represents the world heritage sight and its protection, was quite vulnerable, so it drew the attention of those responsible to the fact that it would be good to withdraw from this regulation as soon as possible. [[19.30]] Now, we can safely narrow down the scope of this law to one company, one company group, namely Viktor Orbán's rope friend, Garancsi. We also say that MOL entered the picture in the meantime towards the end of 2017, who said that they themselves would build this particular tower. But they considered it possible that the Market would be the contractor. So in that sense, he wouldn't have gotten out of the picture. You assume, in the original bill, that in the event that the construction log has been opened, the owner would be entitled to compensation. Now, we should also clarify what we call the opening of the construction log, to be exact. If the data is uploaded? What if the characters were handed out? Or if they've already officially handed over the work site? You pushed the entry into force of this law into force on June 30th. So, the question is, I can't go into any specific building authority cases, so I don't know exactly where this MOL headquarters is at right now, so I'm asking you to answer this specifically, so that you've already opened the building log on this case. Because it would be nice to know what we're actually talking about as compensation. It is said that there will be a price of 1 million forints per square metre here in this building, and 83,000 gross square meters would be installed. If I take it as a basis, the amount of compensation will be very many billion forints, Mr. Secretary of State; even if the government, by the way, includes the requirements for determining the amount of compensation and who can determine the value of the real damage. However, many tens of billions may arise here, so there is also a significant budget amount. I ask that, before we begin to debate the budget law, we make that clear here, in front of the House, because, where appropriate, we also need to say from which sources this tremendous amount of money will be taken away. Then your amendment is not 65 metres, we apologize, it's 90 meters. Maybe you've done this math, and it turns out there's a hopeless amount of compensation to be paid to MOL, if that's the case? Or what is this story really about? Not to mention that in cases of major national importance, as you said, there is a need for a derogation. So, in fact, they will withdraw from this whole story, and as soon as they have been submitted, they will soften up the whole legislation. I think that what would be acceptable both from a city-view protection point of view here in Budapest, but all of Hungary, is that we respect our traditions and say that this is how Budapest's urban structure was formed, so that the urban fabric was formed, there are high buildings, but this is typically outside of Hungária's boulevard, so it does not interfere so much with the central view of the Danube. Although there are also buildings there that have already asked questions about the whole assessment of the World Heritage Protection and have received many criticisms. But to build it now or let this building be built in any way there, on the Kopaszi dam, and this beautiful sight disappear once and for all, I don't think it can be held, accepted. By the way, when we were about to arrive at this point in that five-party meeting, and I specifically asked what would happen to the Garancsi tower, because the opportunity was still given to build such a large tower, then they told me to see what the Prime Minister's attitude was on this issue. Then I could see that you would take me back to 65 meters, but then it could be more than 90 or 90 if, from a national economy point of view, that building is so important, so beautiful. Yeah, I'm sorry, it's not that nice, because if you look at the certain visuals that have already been removed from the Foster office, well, I guess you could at least call them aliens, to put it mildly. So we can support one way or only one point in this whole bill, so that, once again, no tower can be located in the areas designated for installation in Hungary or in areas not designated for installation. It's the only normal and reasonable attitude we can accept. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-18-262	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Antal Csárdi, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2018-06-18-263	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I've prepared a nice lead speaker, but I'm still forced to start with what's going on with all this clowning. I'm sorry, there is a bill that we have to decide on, and today, at 16:14 p.m., an amendment is coming in, which does not slightly modify the proposed law, but from 65 meters to 90 meters, which, by the way, does not inculcate the 90 meters in concrete. If the 95 meters are as solid as the granite strength of our Fundamental Law, then we're just as losers. We are talking about a city where we are rightly proud of its architectural traditions and values. We are talking about a city and its settlement, we are talking about the settlements of a country where we have the right to defend our buildings that have been awarded world heritage recognition, and at the moment this bill is about throwing it in the trash. It's crazy. I'm telling you honestly, I was thinking, and it says here that you could even support it, but the problem is that you draw attention to a much bigger problem, a set of problems. But unfortunately, the situation is even worse now, because in fact, in a bill has been written about every day in recent years and every day the practice that we have buddies, we have interests, we have economic interests, and we have to serve them. This is what the priority investment system has always been about. That's what the City Park concrete was all about. I think this should end once and for all, because the development of our cities is unimaginable. And it's not unconventional because our city leaders are incompetent. It is not unconventional because the people who live here, the general assemblies, do not want to interfere with the cityscape of their own city, but because the Fidesz government and the Fidesz parliamentary majority believe that they will decide. He will decide instead of the Metropolitan Assembly and instead of the municipality of Szeged, and I can say any other settlement. A building, a part of the city, or a transport infrastructure is not about who can steal the property cheaply, who's nice to the government, which architect, we've seen it in connection with the National Theatre. It doesn't matter who's got the government's idea for grandeur, I'm talking about the problem of the museum district and the City Park right now. Like this, the idea of a tennis stadium that will allow Wimbledon to hide in the Margaret Island, one of the last untouched or truly valuable green areas of Budapest. At the same time, while bringing such a bill with such an amendment, such an amendment, such aims and such a background to the House, the main aim is to build sustainable and smart cities worldwide, or at least in most parts of Europe. There is no evidence of this in Hungary, despite the European subsidies that flow here, because prestige investments take the aid away. I think that it is not the capital, not the districts, and certainly not the local people who decide on the issues of urban development and resolution, but it is the right thing to do. [[19.40]] We shouldn't be talking about this here, we should be talking about it in the Metropolitan Assembly, with professionals, and it doesn't take a parliamentary decision. What did we see anyway? Let's think about it. There was a historical overview for which I especially thank the Secretary of State, Mr Bence Tuzson, but István Garancsi really missed out on the historical overview, even though I think that István Garancsi has a significant role to play in the historical overview of the high houses. 'Cause what happened? He's dreamed of a city district, a city district that had neither the transport infrastructure nor the public service infrastructure available in advance, and then the city will do it afterwards! And I think that the same István Garancsi, when the debate about the high-rises was clearly formed, let go of this idea, so practically a very large Hungarian company came into play. Let's face it honestly, the kind of debate Budapesters should have had in Budapest, and what the Budapesters should have decided in Budapest did not happen. We've seen the visuals. We were talking about a boring, square-based column or column, that was the first plan. The second plan was a boot - shaped building, also built at a height of 120 meters. And what we're seeing now is that after a lot of people actually sighed here, that finally, the government understands the message of society that we don't want high-rises because they're not safe, we don't want high-rises because they don't fit into the fabric of the city. And then I'm sitting here, preparing for a keynote speaker's speech, and in addition to the first speech of my life, the exact time is 19 hours and 40 minutes, and I have to face the fact that you submitted me at 4:15 this afternoon, or you personally submitted an amendment to make sure that there are no high-rises, but rather a bit. You could ask Parliament, the opposition, or even me personally, that if their urban planning ideas are not born in the right place, including in Parliament and not in the capital city hall, at least until the day before the laws are negotiated on this issue, you should decide what you want to do with this city. I'm sorry, I think that we should talk about municipal funding in this context; we should talk about the direction in which this city, this country, should go, but there is no trace of it. Because we see what Sándor Finta said a few years ago, who was the head of the Center for Contemporary Architecture at this time, he said, "This is a very strange situation, because there is basically no urban planning in Budapest. Instead of urban planning based on research, there is a spontaneous process of urban development, in which the pace or lobby dictated by real estate developers plays a very strong role, if you will. There is a development of towns from land to land, and it is not an exaggeration to say that this is possible. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. And yes, Mr House, Mr President, it is possible because there is no meaningful link between the population, the municipality and government decision-makers. And this is mostly because of the lack of interest of the latter, because of the lack of interest of the people here. In order to reduce the conditions underlying the autonomy of the municipalities, to reduce their powers, to reduce their financial means and to maintain their operation, the municipalities forced to squander much of their assets are unable to interfere with their own urban planning. I think we should talk about this, and this bill cannot be supported in this way. 'Cause what we see is that it's going on all the time, come on, let's talk about the type and style of city planning in the back corner of the office, and I think it's wrong, wrong. This bill is an additional act, and I wrote it to the original bill, because many of these started planning had begun. I started thinking, does the government really want to do this by paying compensation to those who have already started? By the way, do we know that such a bill is known to you before we, Members of Parliament, are close to the government in the architecture industry? So the big question is, do you already know the amendment, or how much sooner did you know the construction companies or their decision-makers close to Fidesz than we, Members of Parliament? It's all terribly sloppy, and if I've read your amendment right now, all of a sudden, it's gonna get the compensation out of it. I'll see if he nods. [[For signal:]] Nod, thank you very much, which is the same thing as good, then we'll bargain like on the market, and believe me, I have a very good experience in that. [[Defiance from the Jobbik benches.]] I think my strongest experience among the people here is to negotiate: good, 90 meters, not 65, but then you will not receive compensation. That's what your bill is all about. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-18-264	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Bence of Tordai, the lead speaker of the PM Group.
u2018-06-18-265	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. You might as well call this a welcome development. It seems that virtually everyone, governing parties and opposition agree that Budapest does not need towers. The problem is that this bill is not usually about the towers, but, as my better fellow Member said, about a single tower. When the first law was passed in December 2017, it was already known that MOL wanted to build the most powerful phallic symbol in Budapest and the country. Obviously, this can represent their power; they may think that it can symbolize their power. On the other hand, the Budapesters, in agreement with UNESCO and, according to them, with the government's commentator, think that this would be a terrible landscape wound, destroy the view of Budapest, and add that the Danube as a fresh air channel would be pretty badly eliminated. This would damage air quality in Budapest, which could cost hundreds of lives a year indirectly. But the point is what happened, let's look at the timing. So in February last year, as a government, you submitted legislation with similar content... what do I say! Last December, December 5th, I believe. Nod, Mr. Secretary, or aren't you so familiar with him? He's not in the picture. This was still the action of John Lazarus, who seemed to be disgraced. He may have crossed the Garancsi-Hernádi axis, and in Fidesz the word of the latter matters more, as they are the oligarchs who probably have a good sense of party financing there in the Fidesz area. So you, who can push through a constitutional amendment in a week, a fundamental law amendment, as you call it, have not been able to pass a law since December of last year. I've looked at the fate of that bill, it's been throwing me up. There are quite a lot of writing events, as the parliamentary jargon says. This means that the blockage of tower building has been continuously drilled. And what happened during that time: that, that no, the MOL headquarters had a valid, final building permit on 26 February this year. And if we go and look at the area, there's prep work going on in the field, which if it's legit, they can't run unless the e-log's open. So it looks like MOL managed to stick a stick between the spokes. It prevented the otherwise well-intentioned attempt to legislate until they are now out of the scope of the law, because in cases where e-logs and valid building permits have already been opened, there is no such prohibition that applies to tower houses. By the way, I do not understand why you are making amendments from now on, Mr Member or Secretary of State. So from here on out, the only question is how much money Fidesz received for this pathetic dog comedy that was presented in connection with the amendment of the construction law. How much it cost the owners of MOL, which is in our hands most of the time, the Hungarian taxpayers and Hungarian citizens, since the main owner here is the Hungarian state. So how much has it cost us, how much has the Fidesz been smeared in order for the MOL tower to be built, so that with this 120-metre monster, you can control the entire view of Buda? Thank you for listening. [[19.50]]
u2018-06-18-266	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if someone would like to comment. [[For signal:]] Yes, Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea has the floor.
u2018-06-18-267	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I wouldn't have spoken, because, as a representative of my group, the lead speaker, as an architect, was perfectly prepared on this issue, and she thought that the bill that was tabled was going to be discussed today by the House, which was valid for 16 hours and 14 minutes. Then, of course, from the words of the Secretary of State, I felt that something was very wrong here because he forgot to talk about compensation, even though, as a former lawyer, you know, this issue of compensation was quite a powerful part of this bill. As a lawyer, I speak because I find what's going on here unacceptable. I apologize for that. This law is an extremely serious law. An important question of the built environment of Budapest and Hungary is how high structures can be built. It affects practically all our citizens, and the budgetary burden that you would otherwise have had on the Hungarian taxpayers, according to the original proposal, is particularly unacceptable. But because we have slowly learned to think fideszly, I can already see that this amendment and this proposal are not the end. No, it's the beginning of something. 65 is 90. Why is that? Because what's in the proposal? That a body of people created by a government decree will decide who has a building permit, but who can't raise more than 65 metres, how much compensation is due. Tell me, who is the man who is not a judge in Hungary today, because judges are not responsible for their decision, but who would have been willing to add his name to the bill of billions of compensation that we do not even know that the properties that would have been built on these plots would have been sold? ! So he turned 90 because Garanchi and his associates probably figured out how much longer the deal would be worth to them, how many meters, and that's why he turned 90. But I'm sorry, I think even 65 is too much. In Hungary, there is an area for anyone who wants to make any investment to do so. But let me say one more thing to you: since the war, since World War II, seven people have woken up to design or build a structure that is over 65 metres tall. Piece seven! When I read this proposal, my first question was, oops, could this be such a widespread problem, that we would build a higher house at 65 metres? No, that's not happening. No, no! We are talking about an economic interest group, and I am very pleased that all opposition representatives who have spoken here as lead speakers have seen this. Now, I'm sorry, but let's not get ahead of ourselves. Well, let's not legislate like that. It is not appropriate, either, as the original was made, but the fact that the lead speakers spoke only because they suspected that there was something wrong here, that the Secretary of State did not say a word about two thirds of the text of the law. We're starting to see what's on the computer, so you're just going to give us an important question. What do we find out? At 16:14 a.m., there's gonna be another law text. But I assure you, there is one more problem, because in the second half of the text, the 65 meters of the law remained in it, so make sure that you agree with this bill on your own, because it will not be possible to apply it if this is the final text. So with all due respect, don't put the business shit in here with us. Don't make us face the need to talk about such matters. I would just like to say that since the change of regime, there has not been a builder who, if he bought any real estate, was sure that he could build a building over 65 meters or 70 meters or 80 meters legally. Because in the construction rules, the height is just a lot, there are the side borders, there are the green surfaces, there are 86 conditions for a building that can be raised to a plot, and only one percent of the question is how high it will be. Ergo, if someone had ever bought a plot in Hungary and wanted to build it recently, he couldn't have been sure that he could build the height that he had invented for himself. And since there is no such set of conditions in Hungarian legislation, I find it unacceptable that at all the issue of compensation or compensation has come to mind in this matter. This is the tax drain, the tax drain paid by taxpayers. And what I really hope is that it comes from my infinite malice to assume that the cheap candelabe ads in the election campaign would not have had this compensation. We can't stop thinking about it in our nightmares. So, with all due respect, we do not know what the final text of this bill will be, because we see that it changes every minute, if you want to regulate this issue, please also kill the germs of anyone here, whether they are politicians or citizens, to not have to think about the phenomenon of mutton. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-18-268	Thank you, Congresswoman. I am asking my fellow Members, who would like to comment on the debate. [[No signal.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I'll ask the author, Mr. Secretary of State, if you'd like to answer. [[For signal:]] It says yes, you have the floor.
u2018-06-18-269	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. You know, it's a very important question that we know where we're talking and what we're talking about. You must also see that what we are talking about is a framework for building. The framework must be conceived as there are laws, legislation at the level of the law, legislation at the level of the law defines the basic framework from which the rules and regulations must be broken down on the spot. [[Intercoms, including Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs: That's not what it says.]] So when we speak here in Parliament, we are talking about national regulations, which must then always be followed by local regulations. So we are not talking here in Parliament about what rules Budapest will have, but we are talking about, by the way, I am saying to Mr Csárdi, what kind of framework is there that will make it necessary for the municipalities to define their own rules. So this is not about determining what can be built in Budapest in the Parliament. [[Intercoms, including Márta Demeter: But you can have anything you want.]] We are creating a framework, whereby, by the way, Budapest and the other settlements determine what rules they form. This has always been the case in Hungarian legislation, and it will probably always be the case, since this staircase must be maintained in the course of the others. I do not want to repeat myself, but this framework is also maintained by the current legislation. After all, there is a 65-meter rule where a professional body has to decide that otherwise it can go beyond that. The central planning council is a long-standing thing. We have a National Planning Council. We still have such a plan council. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] It's a professional gnome, it's defined who its members are. Accordingly, a decision must be taken by this professional group. And I am very careful of my fellow Members taking a stand on the matter of taste, especially on the issue of architectural taste, between the walls of this House. That's the question that needs to be left to the profession. [[Noise, interruptions from the opposition benches.]] That's the question the profession has to decide. That is why I say that a professional decision must always be made on such a matter. Let's leave it to the profession, the architects, to judge these questions. The fact that a building, by the way, looks like what it will look like, should be left to a proper body to make the right decisions. This is how the current regulation is built, and not by the fact that we have now started talking in Parliament about whether we view a building as beautiful or not as beautiful. [[Intercoms, including Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs: But be allowed to say that she is ugly.]] This is neither the Parliament's responsibility nor the need to discuss these issues here. I think that the issue of urban development and on this fundamental issue, I think we all need to agree on a fundamental task. It is a fundamental task, but it is a task which is not primarily the task of the Parliament, but of the municipalities. It is important for a government, a Parliament, to establish rules between which, of course, to give the municipalities the freedom of movement and the possibility of professional decisions. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] This is also linked to the amendment proposed in this legislation, which, by the way, shifts the creation of urban planning instruments for municipalities by a year, since it was a deadline that was a limitation in some respects and would have introduced the rules for so-called integration. [[20.00]] But it is precisely so that the possibility of regulation for municipalities, so that they can decide for themselves, is assured, that this time limit must be extended so that these instruments can be created. Look, there are questions that are raised in a parliamentary assembly, they are regularly raised, and it is strange that some Members or you are asking these questions. But look, there's only one thing that drives us. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: The money to make more money!]] the ability of local authorities to decide on these issues at the appropriate level of regulation, and in addition to these regulatory issues, [[Loránt Hegedűs and Dániel Z. Carpathian intervene.]] then create buildings where professional control is in the first place. Let me make a comment to my learned lawyer colleague. When you talk about law enforcement, it's not this place, it's the court, it's the place for lawmaking. I ask that if you speak to him as a lawyer and point out that you are a lawyer, then these two concepts, please do not confuse him. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: This is very gentlemanly! When he can't react anymore! You're a real man. Congratulations.]] Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-18-270	Good evening. Good evening. [[Z. Kárpat to Dániel Tuzson Bence: You would have at least taught him in the debate when he could react! You're not that gentleman. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Question of fact! There's no response to the question of fact. Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] I'm letting this post-painting debate go because I can't find the page that leads us to the next page. [[Defiance.]] Good evening, everyone, and I would like to say with friendship that the amendment proposals can be tabled by 16:00 on Thursday. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today, but there are speeches after the agenda. First, Mr Bence Rétvári, representative of the KDNP, will address his post-meeting address in the Provinces of Vácon and North Pest. Congressman, please.
u2018-06-18-271	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, In Hungary, economic performance is increasingly strong, and the country itself is growing strong, and therefore developments are taking place in every part, including in the Vác and Szob region, and progress is taking place that has not been made before. Health is the most important thing for everyone, and it is therefore important that the greatest renovation and expansion of the history of the Vác hospital will take place in the next period. We can only use 5 billion 600 million forints to improve outpatient care, from which not only the current parts will be renewed, but also a new block of buildings will be created, and we will be able to obtain a lot of new, high-value instruments that will all serve the health of the people in the area. But in the same way, the construction or construction of a health home in 11 settlements is increasing, two of which have already been handed over, and two have already been handed over, so the infrastructure of the basic general medical, dental and protective services has been renewed in 13 settlements out of more than 1 billion forints, so the buildings in which they can serve the sick, and in many cases it has also resulted in the purchase of new instruments, which has increased the functions of basic care. It is also important that, from 62 million forints, the Vác rescue station is being upgraded, and two weeks ago, a new ambulance arrived at the Vác rescue station. Dreams for small settlements have been realized for decades, old plans have been implemented, when out of five settlements out of 300 million forints outskirts, municipal institutions can renew from 319 million forints in 13 settlements, roads, sidewalks in 11 settlements can also be upgraded in the order of 100 million, 18 settlements make an investment of nearly 1.5 billion forints in building energy tenders, or I think it is also very important that the renovation of the most characteristic buildings that define the settlement picture was supported by 317 million forints in 9 settlements. This also means that never so many urban dreams, long-designed, cherished desires could have been realized, as is the case at this time. The expansion of the M2 twice into two lanes also increases the number of most, which makes Budapest the fastest available to everyone from Vác direction or from Budapest direction to Vác and the surrounding settlements. The first two-storey trains also arrive in the Vác-Budapest section. They arrive in the middle of next year, and they're scheduled every day by the end of next year. Thus, as the first trains travelled between Vác and Budapest a hundred years ago, the first two-storey trains will now travel here 150 years more precisely after the arrival of the first trains. It is also important that transport there not only on land but also on water, and speed shipping in Duna can be renewed from HUF 12.5 billion. The church communities are also growing, the Franciscan church in Vác will receive the largest support, and a beautiful monument church will be renewed from nearly 570 million forints. But in Nagymaros and 11 other settlements, church buildings and churches are renewed from approximately 200 million forints. In addition, Cistercian nurses, following an old tradition of hundreds of years, are also engaged in agricultural production and processing, and their manufacturing can produce new fruit products with HUF 221 million in state support to the delight of farmers in the area, whose products are processed. But the Litus Conference Centre will also be established in Kismaros, to which the state has also provided HUF 60 million in funding. It also increases the number of Dunakanyari legends to receive the largest government support in the history of the Váci Dunakanyari Theatre, it can completely renew from 320 million forints this summer and receive visitors under modern conditions in autumn. The Attila József Cultural House will be renewed from 50 million forints, and Vác will also receive its largest sports and event hall, as it will be worth 5 billion forints to build a hall with 3300 seats, a multifunctional hall and give it free of charge to the city and the locals to use it as best they can. The Váci Hope Sports Association is 98 years old, but has never received such central state support as this: the track of athletics can be renewed from 744 million forints. The Szob school is perhaps the oldest promised swimming pool promised by politicians in Hungary, since 43 years ago it was promised that Szob would have a swimming pool, then the 360,000 HUF earned in the work competition was set aside for this purpose. The swimming pool was indeed built, and we gave it to everyone for their pleasure, but it was not 360,000, but 480 million forints. The major tourist development in Dunakanyar is also important, which includes HUF 3 billion for the renewal of the downtown of Vác, HUF 1 billion for the museum district, HUF 1 billion for the modernization of the Danube coast in Nagymaros, HUF 1 billion for Zebegényre 500 million forints, but 23 municipalities receive [[The president's ringing the bell.]] The Kisfaludy program. And it could also be described as one of the largest, fastest and most encouraging programs in the Vác and Szob area. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-18-272	Thank you very much, Congressman. Secretary of State Tuzson has indicated that he does not wish to speak on behalf of the government. Mr Retvár State Secretary does not wish to respond [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Not now!]] Mr Retvár's speech. [[Defiance.]] In this way, Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm will be able to say her speech after the agenda: "The importance of blood donation." Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2018-06-18-273	Thank you for the floor. Mr Secretary of State, Mr Tuzson, I would like to add to the former that it is also possible to consult linguists, not just to speak to the colleague in the Chamber, and then he can interpret the word "legislative" precisely. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes.]] What I would like to say here in this House today is that you must be aware, in recent times, that it is essentially the social, health and children's rights issues that are very important to me, and one of the very serious issues of this is blood donation. In 2007, there were 446 865 blood donations in the country, of which 50 120 were new donors. In 2017 there were only 372 360 blood donations, and see what's going on! Since 2017, the number of new blood donors is no longer included in the blood supply statistics. In 2016, we could see how much of the new blood donor was, and in 2017 statistical theory had already been omitted, I wonder why. We can say, of course, that the number of people in society has decreased, very many have migrated, and this may also cause a decrease in blood donation, but while in 2007 there were 10 million 66 thousand people, in 2017, only 9 million 797 thousand, this is a 2.5 percent decrease in the number of people in the country, but the number of donors has decreased by 16.7 percent. So seven times as many people don't give blood as the number of people in the country has decreased. We all know how important this question is in a society, a very serious form of solidarity, and while we are responsible for each other, it is blood giving itself that we can best express to our fellow humans that we live in a society, we are solidarity with one another, we want sick people to be cured, if it depends on us giving blood. [[20.10]] In recent times, when I raised this question several times, I have received a lot of letters saying that the willingness to give blood in such an extraordinary way has been reduced because certain groups of businesses close to the government are selling blood plasma to companies for huge money, and that, in fact, selfless donors are producing huge profits for entrepreneurial circles, and a lot of people do not want to participate. The previous HUF 10,000 blood donation fee for plasma was reduced by the Orbán government to HUF 3500, in order to get rid of the blood taxes, but by paying less, the remaining blood donors again gave huge profits to companies near the government. This business phenomenon has destroyed the willingness to give blood to such an extent that I feel that the government has to do a very serious job of trying to get this hundreds of thousands less blood giving back in some way, so that the kind of feeling that you give up your blood and the kind of pleasure that you can do to save people is an experience for as many of our countrymen as possible. I'm lucky enough to get a letter every two days, because the Rh-negative blood type is very rare, there's always very little of it, and it's natural for you to put yourself there, give your blood, because maybe it's the least you can do to help this few or this small number of people of this blood type. The biggest problem in Hungary is that this pervasive business, business character, the most beautiful and most sacred things that have been brought to business foundations have separated some members of society from each other to such an extent that it is mainly the question of blood donation that is so spectacularly displayed as a negative consequence. I ask the government with great respect to try to think about this whole issue. It is not enough in itself that the Red Cross will appear in up to 600 places one day, because it is out of the minds of the people, and they should first be able to promote their consciousness to the extent that this responsibility is re-established, or anyone who has not yet been involved, is willing to be, for example, one of the important steps to be taken by the government if it wants a strong, cohesive society behind it, then it should start in this direction. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-06-18-274	Thank you very much, and also for keeping your timeframe so precise. Secretary of State, please.
u2018-06-18-275	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I think we should thank the people who give blood, it's really an extremely selfless act. We need 1,500 units of blood every day in Hungary, which means that 1600-1800 people have to go every day to give blood. Overall, we need 400,000 units of blood per year in Hungary. Fortunately, no urgent intervention is ever missed due to blood shortage, but it also requires the National Blood Service to ensure that blood can be donated in 60-70 places every day on a daily basis. Congresswoman has also approached several directions as to what is behind the fact that there are fewer and fewer people around the world who are giving blood. On the one hand, I think that we should thank the Hungarian blood donors, because the activity of Hungarian blood donors is felt above the European average. In Hungary, people are still more selfless than the European average. I think what we need to see behind this is that there really is a kind of isolation of society or a selfless view of it, someone is taking the trouble, taking the individual inconveniences, and a blood for an unknown person, or not. This is based on general public thinking funds, which is why we can be proud of the Hungarian blood donors, as I said, they are more active than their European counterparts. To promote blood donation, the Blood Supply Service has launched a wide range of campaigns, you have seen it, in national campaigns, in schools, in classrooms, in many ways we want to motivate people to donate blood. The possibility of direct blood donation is also one that they can live with and help relatives, acquaintances, and close relatives. I urge everyone to try to encourage as many people as possible in their own environment and in their own way, to help them, and from time to time, there are campaigns that make blood donation visible, and to everyone the experience or good feeling that they could help someone with something that is irreplaceable with their own blood. So thank all Hungarian blood donors, and we hope that more and more will be in the future. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-18-276	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, has applied for a speech:, For how long? It's an address. Here you go.
u2018-06-18-277	Mr President, Dear House, Although today is our biggest problem, there has been relatively less talk about the demographic disaster, but more has been said about the housing crisis. The previous item on the agenda, where, in an insidious manner, a few hours before the debate, was practically rewritten by the pro-government representatives, which they wanted to discuss three or four hours later, pointed out that a single likely lobbying effect was sufficient, a single external economic impulse, and, where appropriate, even the various housing regulations were rewritten by this government, without any professional preparation, presumably to order friends and business associates. We must say that we have seen something similar, for example, in my neighbourhood, Obuda, when the mobile barrier on the Roman coast, in preparation for a plan for an amazing facility, against which I am obviously speaking on every front, we saw a change ban on the area concerned, and then this change ban was lifted for a short period of time, so that one of the housing companies would still have a permit in the area, and then, when this permit was turned out, the change ban was again ordered. And that, no, from the Kopaszi dam to Obuda, there appear to be Garanchi companies or similar companies everywhere, and we see that, while this government is turning the CSOK into the luckier social classes and actually trying to favour a well-defined round of contractors, these permits, these buildings are somehow starting to come under the roof. When state ministers here refer to the fact that the number of building permits issued has started to grow, this is exactly the kind of friendly process behind it, and I see that you are shaking your head, and I am glad, because the stimuli in this Parliament alone are a great achievement, and I have to say to you, if you are aware of the real estate stock in Hungary, you may also be aware that if you were looking at the current construction figures, the Hungarian real estate stock would be replaced every three to four hundred years on the basis of the current figures. I understand that there is a slight shift in the number of building permits issued, but I am most interested in two things: on the one hand, the number of properties specifically built, transferred and acquired, which is not the same as the number of building permits issued, and, on the other hand, the extent to which we can expand the offer in the form of rentals, if any, in addition to the ownership of the property. We see that this government has bled out in this area, even though it would have the potential to resolve housing poverty on other fronts, and for example, EU funds should not only be used to renovate public institutions, because the government itself has asked Brussels to use this mass only for this purpose, even though this would have become available to the population. If necessary, it could have been linked to the CSOK, and if a renovation had been accompanied by at least an energy-level leap, then a zero-percent credit option could have been opened here. There hasn't been a barrier to this in the last eight years, and I don't see it as a budgetary barrier. At the same time, we see that the government chose not to tackle the housing crisis as a solution to the amazing emigration crisis, but to simply deny this emigration crisis, pretending that it does not exist. Mr Tállai, Secretary of State, who has an opinion from the petrol price in Fölkövesd to the football team to tax matters, says that more people return home in his dream world or in his onion fevers from abroad than the number of Hungarians emigrating from this country. I wish her onion fever dreams were right. Unfortunately, no, because he could have read too many Poe or Lovecraft, presumably. But I would much prefer that, if we are faced with such catastrophic processes, we should try to work them out together and achieve a national minimum of parties on demographic issues and housing issues; we will try to do so during the budgetary debate. [[20.20]] And I would also like to say that the budgetary debate is an excellent place to encourage the government to encourage childbearing in a truly measurable way, so that the world record will be reduced by 27 percent of its VAT. In particular, we consider it essential to radically reduce the VAT content of children's education articles and to support the housing of the families concerned in such a way that they can stay in this country, because there is no more important task of national strategy. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-18-278	Thank you very much. Congressman Imre László is next. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: State Secretary's reply...]] After listening to the response of Secretary of State of Retvári, which he will now say on behalf of the government.
u2018-06-18-279	Since you've given me so much pleasure, Congressman, that you've seen stimuli on my face, I thought I'd share it verbally. [[Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát: Much obliged, Mr Secretary of State!]] which ran through my brain cells. Honourable Congressman, I listened with interest to him when he said that there was a slight shift in the number of building permits. Well, that's a slight shift in a year from 6099 to 13,000. So more than double is a slight shift for you. [[Dániel Z. Kárpát: Secretary of State, it would take 44 thousand to...]] Honourable Congressman, You will start all over the country, or even in Budapest, you will see nothing else on every third corner about, at least to a very large extent, as part of the city, than a variety of cranes that build houses and offices. In another speech, you're talking about the fact that you can barely find mechanics or workers, because everyone's at some construction site. Thanks to the CSOK, on the one hand, the renovation and construction of the apartments finally started in Hungary, thanks to wage increases and tax reductions. Today's statement states that if a person took 10 million forints for 20 years, he could take half of his salary five to eight years ago, he could take half of an average salary, and now he won't even take 25 percent of the repayment. Or, if you look at Eurostat's statements, housing costs in Hungary took 15 percent of the income in 2010, now 9 percent, with 11.5% in the EU. You are talking about a housing crisis with housing costs representing 11 percent of the average income in the EU and 9 percent in the EU. [[Z. Dániel Carpathian: What is the average income there?]] It is cheaper to live in Hungary than it is in Europe. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Jesus Christ!]] Not to mention what it was like a few years ago. Obviously, this is also due to the reduction of the rent. Mr. Congressman, look at the number of building permits, and it's so high, thank God, that there's a chance of a renewal of the Hungarian housing stock. Until mid-April 18, 75,000 families received a CSOK application amounting to HUF 213 billion. We gave HUF 213 billion to Hungarian families to live in a newly built family house or to move to a new apartment or to expand their house and apartments under more dignified conditions. Since the change of regime, Hungary has not had a housing programme like this. And you say that there is a housing crisis when HUF 213 billion was landed fortunately in the pockets of Hungarian families. This is the best place, because obviously, when a family starts building a few million forints or a few ten million forints, they will obviously give that money to Hungarian entrepreneurs, and local entrepreneurs will grow the best form of economic recovery. We also have to say that for those in difficulty, the National Asset Manager has created 36,000 basically state-owned apartments by providing the housing of 165 thousand socially dependent people by buying them, buying their own apartments from overworked people, where they can now operate as tenants. Honourable Congressman, In order to improve the housing conditions of Hungarian families in the housing market, there has never been such progress as in recent years, when the Hungarian economy was able to perform better, we were able to translate this into Hungarian families. It may also be the Jobbik program, as LMP does, that Hungarian families do not need a family house with gardens, that everyone should go to social housing and be a tenant for the rest of their life, this is also a social image. We do not follow this, our Christian Democratic civil thinking follows that everyone should be owner in their own home, everyone should have their own property, because we believe that this is a very important existential basis for a civil middle-class lifestyle. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-18-280	Thank you very much. So it is now time for Congressman Imre László, a representative of DK, to address the emergency care. Here you go.
u2018-06-18-281	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In fact, every day news of the creepy stories of emergency care comes in, when patients who are admitted to emergency rooms are forced to wait from morning to evening, when the patient is sent home with no reason for emergency care and dies at home, not to mention the cases of the patient leaving the emergency room waiting for the living. The purpose of emergency care is precisely to determine the order of care for incoming patients and injured patients according to strict rules and, where appropriate, to provide out-of-court intervention for patients with long-term health damage or possibly death risk. The primary source of the problem is, of course, the lack of healthcare professionals with sufficient numbers and qualifications. Incomparably higher salaries and improved working conditions have been replaced by thousands of doctors and workers leaving abroad each year. The first stage of emergency care is the Rescue Service. The drastic salary increase promised to the paramedics and paramedics was hardly achieved. The Democratic Coalition presented complaints at a press conference in the Facebook group of people working at the Rescue Service, and also that they could receive a higher wage with significantly less responsibility if, for example, they worked at McDonald's. However, it is not all about the shortage of staff, it should be noted that emergency care is an independent profession in all aspects, so its task cannot be provided by an emergency surgeon, an internal physician, but especially not by some specialists. The tasks of emergency medical care require trained specialists and professionals, who are strictly professional in their activities. This not only ensures professional care, but also avoids long-hour and often unjustified waiting. There is also a problem with emergency care with an inefficient GP on-call system. This tension is further enhanced by the fact that, due to the existence of waiting lists, the basic care is also problematic, as the patient may have to wait weeks and months for an ECG, X-ray, CT scan or abdominal ultrasound, for example, requested by the general physician, and sooner or later the patient will try to help himself by applying to the emergency room, where the same examination will be performed after a few hours of waiting. This is, of course, unduly burdensome for emergency departments, thus indirectly endangering human lives. However, it is difficult to break a wand over a patient who is concerned about his health and who may want to get rid of his suffering. Given that this method is becoming more and more widespread, it is not an insignificant contribution to the unjustified overload of hospital emergency care. Dear House, In Hungary, more than 30,000 patients with szekszárd's number die every year, who could have been saved if the health system was working properly. The population loss, which has already increased to 40,000 last year, would certainly be more effective if the solution was sought not only by those responsible for the drastic increase in fertility rates but also in the reduction of mortality. And this is where the proper operation of emergency care is important. The idea that the problem of hospital emergency rooms can be solved by setting up a doctor with dispatch duties shows a complete lack of knowledge of the problem. It would also require the restructuring of emergency care from funds, and for this it would require the hard work of many years, in addition to money and concept, with the substantial involvement of professionals who know exactly what to do and how to do certain things. I hope that someday Hungary will have this question. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] He'll have a government to deal with in particular. Thank you, Mr. President. [[20.30]]
u2018-06-18-282	Thank you very much. Does the Secretary of State wish to respond?
u2018-06-18-283	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Obviously, about 40 percent of what you said about urgency can be agreed, especially as regards the description of the case. It is particularly important for the government to ensure that patients in the emergency department are provided with the best possible care. More and more patients are showing up here, and there is a marked increase in the burden of emergency rooms, and therefore, on the one hand, the existing ones need to be better valued. The fact that we were able to raise the doctors' wages by HUF 207,000 in two years, or the nurse's wages by 65 percent in four years, can improve it for the nurses. On the other hand, the circumstances need to be improved. As you have seen, a few months ago we were able to deliver a completely renewed emergency section at the South-Pest Hospital, which will certainly be able to improve patient care in one of the most congested emergency care departments in Budapest, and to do so are the improvements that will be made to other hospital hospitals in the Healthy Budapest programme, or to the twenty-one co-hospitals where this is needed, so that they are always available 24 hours a day. Overall, a HUF 13 billion application was issued specifically for the development of emergency departments, precisely so that the emergency departments could reach a higher level of progressivity. So it is important to address this issue. The third part is the retention of existing ones and the development of infrastructure, and the improvement of instrumentality, obviously the replacement. Among other things, the Mihalicza Scholarship serves this purpose, so that emergency care can also receive replacements, there is much more to be said, nursing careers, career guidance applications and others. Let us hope that more and more people will use these grants, here are billions of forints, which the government will devote to supporting replacements with a scholarship not only in terms of urgency but also in other areas. I would like to make those comments clear that doctors go abroad a thousand times a year. Even in the saddest years, in 2010-11, when doctors were the highest emigration, the number of emigration doctors was slightly below 900, and now it is somewhere around 340-350. The emigration of doctors decreased by 60 percent, while nearly 1,500 returned or did not leave or work in two places, so they also appeared in the Hungarian system. Obviously, it would be better for all doctors leaving to work in Hungarian health care. Here is Lukács László György's colleague, ask him why he talked doctors into working abroad, and they can discuss this on the opposition side among themselves. [[Dr. György Lukács: When will the business of Rétvári be discussed in Szigetvár?]] But about thousands of doctors going abroad every year, of course, we can't speak fortunately. We hope that the number of graduates in medical universities has increased by 40 percent, so that not a thousand, but 1400 young medical students and medical students will exit the university gates will be encouraging, but regardless of this, the new minister also quoted one of his ideas: he will draw up a plan with the Health Secretary, which will focus specifically on emergency departments, and, as I said earlier, we have serious billions here to improve. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-18-284	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Márta Demeter, representative of the LMP, will be following:. What will the government do for Hungary's security? It's called the 1st. Here you go. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Will there be a sequel?]]
u2018-06-18-285	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. I will be very curious to hear from you what you will say about Hungary's security as Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: I'm a congressman, vice president of KDNP!]] For LMP, Hungary's security is the most important, and although this could be said about government actors, unfortunately it cannot. The Orbán government does not take the necessary measures to ensure that the Hungarian people are safe in their country. Today, as we have done here in Parliament, I would call it a debate, but it has been rather one-sided, because we have not received any substantive answers from government actors to any of our questions, we have talked much about the bill that you intend to make for what you think is one of your bastions to fight illegal migration. Unfortunately, this bill is not about that at all, and it is unable to fulfil that objective. It is clear that there are also very serious shortcomings in the fight against illegal migration, and that the government is not taking the substantive steps that are needed. There is only communication governance, for example, the causes of the problem are not dealt with at all, they do not increase the effectiveness of Hungarian bodies, the effectiveness of security controls, they do not seek to ensure that the government fully adheres to its own international commitments, and they even try to hinder and postpone the actions of the European Union that would help Hungary to combat illegal migration. So basically we do not need ad hoc police and police measures, this problem is much more complex, yet we see such a very narrow-minded and extremely short-term small-term beauty patch from the government, otherwise they do not have any medium- or long-term plans. And in addition to the fact that this problem exists and that the government is not taking appropriate action to address it, there is a parallel problem that you, yourself, are opening huge security gaps in Hungary's security system, and I could even say that in fact, in recent years, Hungary's security system has been dismantled. One example is the issue of settlement bonds. With this construction, 20,000 people have been allowed into Hungary and the Schengen area. These people were granted a lifelong residence permit and allowed these people in without any substantive control. It has been proven precisely that there were criminals among them, and in the same way terrorists could come and come from counterintelligible secret services, which, by the way, not only Hungary but also the European Union will moan in the long term, and you have all opened the way for them. And why would they do that? It is also said here in Parliament many times that it was good for the Hungarian economy. Wow, it was so good, Mr. State Secretary, that it cost the Hungarian state 18 billion forints, and you caused this. And what's on the other side? Some of them won with this, of course: Antal Rogán won HUF 150 billion and the related business circles, because these offshore companies, which are related to them, have outsourced the sale of Hungarian government bonds and stewardship with lifelong residence permits. I asked this question several times and only received a propaganda response from Csaba Dömötör, but to this day I am still very curious how much of this HUF 150 billion has been given to Viktor Orbán. The time will come when I think we will see this clearly. You also keep quiet that these people who bought settlement bonds merely lent a loan to the Hungarian State, this loan must be repaid. It is 2018, this is the year when this obligation to fulfill the Hungarian state will be opened, and we are talking about more than HUF 500 billion in total, which you must pay back to these people. I have asked in writing four times the exact amount of money this year. By the way, with a quick head count, we can say that this is likely to be more than HUF 100 billion for this year, and you are very quiet about it. I wonder how they're gonna pay for this, by the way. So nowhere in the world does such construction work as you have implemented, there is nowhere to sell settlement bonds from offshore companies, and nowhere is there to allow these people into the country without proper control. So this construction has to be terminated, and if you're here, and you can answer the question of when you're going to end it, then do it, because the law is alive. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] and they can re-open this opportunity at any time. Thank you.
u2018-06-18-286	Thank you very much. Secretary of State of Rétvár, please.
u2018-06-18-287	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Here, with your last sentences, you acknowledged that the period when settlement bonds could have been purchased was over. There was a period in Hungary between the walls of Parliament I think we have said this 30-40 times, and 3-4 times it was probably your question, when Hungary benefited from this form when it was no longer beneficial, and then Hungary did not use it. That's what you're obviously attacking. [[Márta Demeter: He's lying!]] here in Parliament, he is trying to keep this topic on the agenda, while the settlement policy itself cannot be bought anywhere. This attack is also about as successful as it was by entering the LMP, since neither of them could find a particular catch. [[Márta Demeter: Secretary of State, is that all you can squeeze out of yourself?]] On the other hand, you have started with security, honourable Member, that Hungary is not safe. [[20.40]] There is such a statement showing how safe each country is. I looked at it directly from the HVG and ATV website, which disprove you very nicely, and they say that Hungary was only the 20th safest country in the world in 2016 and that by 2017, it became the 15th safest country in the world. It seems that the fence building or the 7,000 new police officers have more importance than the baseless and untrue accusations you've made. If you look at it, there are some countries in the area ahead, such as Austria, who is in fourth place, by the way, New Zealand, Portugal, Austria and Denmark are in the first place, but nevertheless Hungary is the 15th safest country in the world today. We can be proud of this, we have improved this position year after year, which is precisely due to the fact that Hungary has been effectively protected from both external threats, internal threats, migration and internal crime. When there were different athletes on the water world, the reporters were here, and this was also highlighted, and when their feedback was given, when the event ended, one of the most outstanding was that they were at such a safe location as they were in Budapest, as in Hungary. You can say many things, but the organizers of world competitions or editors of world statements claim the exact opposite of you. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-18-288	Thank you very much. Congressman Brenner Koloman, representative of Jobbik, is the following speaker:. The difficult situation of the University of Óbuda, or which institution is next? It's an address. Here you go.
u2018-06-18-289	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Several speakers have already said in the House today on a similar subject that the transfer of funds from the research institutes of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and the transfer of research and development funds from universities raises serious concerns about the freedom of Hungarian scientific life. Since we believe that research cannot be separated from universities, as universities are places where research results can be used immediately in education, I would like to draw the attention of this House, my fellow Members, to the crisis signs of the University of Óbuda. This university tried to turn its path a little to the right from the sale of a building in 2017, but it was most likely to make use of this money, and there are a lot of signs of crisis in the current operation of the institution. Among other things, the press reported that the teaching teachers had not had a contract or paid for their hours since January. The university has a chancellor, this chancellor system was introduced by the Fidesz government, with the exact reason that it has a better influence on the management of universities, and surely the chancellor is much better able to oversee the management of the university than the head of the academic sphere, the rector, the Chancellor of the University of Óbuda, after producing such crisis signals, quickly leaving the sinking ship, and becoming Deputy State Secretary in the new Ministry of Innovation. I consider this to be an example that leads us to a much more complex problem, and I would like to talk about it in fact here in front of this House, because in Hungarian higher education, if we look at progress since 2010, there is a fundamental strategic issue, or let us call it a conceptual issue in which the government has changed its position continuously every 2-3 years, namely what institutional structure the Hungarian state wants to maintain. There were, I still remember, many years ago, ideas that should have created pole universities, and within certain powers there was no way to teach the same course in several institutions, for example. After that, this concept was rejected and we started in a completely different direction. Integration processes took place in different waves, where the University of Óbuda itself was formed in a slightly strange setting. So what we have seen in recent years, now for almost 9 years, is that there is no strategic concept of how to put together the structure of Hungarian higher education and the budgetary resources allocated to it, so that the quality of both education and scientific research is adequate, and, of course, the aspects that need to be taken into account are, for example, that rural higher education institutions have, of course, another role to play in keeping local intellectuals and local populations. So here I see this case of a crisis at the University of Óbuda, which shows a bit of this unconceptuality, which has been affecting the Hungarian higher education system for many years now, I think, and I think that we should have a very serious professional debate and a policy debate on this, as it also affects how the university has, unfortunately, still uses very limited resources. We also need to consider how this system compares to the radically declining number of students, since, let's say, in 2005, the proportion of students in higher education was still well over 400 thousand, which, according to the 2017 data, decreased to 283,000. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Therefore, conceptual, perspective plans should be drawn up to ensure that this issue is resolved in a satisfactory manner in the longer term. Thank you.
u2018-06-18-290	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, please.
u2018-06-18-291	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You seem to know certain parts of higher education from the inside. In the last one and a half minutes you asked questions, they are entirely legitimate questions, honourable Member; I propose that you use these questions to address the strategy entitled "Training in higher education." About four years ago, Minister of State Palkovics, as he moved from the leadership of a large company known worldwide to the State Secretary of Higher Education, began to operate by consulting all his actors for higher education, for several months, from 6 to 11 a.m. to perhaps you know his capacity to work, and you have tried to incorporate everyone's proposals into this comprehensive vision, which is a strategy that everyone can see, which, by the way, has been revised two years after his adoption, precisely because you said two years ago that trends in higher education are changing very quickly, and two years is an important time, which is why you updated this. Honourable Congressman, We are most pleased to see that you have something to add to this strategy. I think that the future Secretary of State, Mr Bódis, and Deputy State Secretary, will be pleased to hear these proposals, because it is important for all of us that there really be a change of degrees in higher education in Hungary, and that the best answers to the questions that exist in this strategy should be provided. If you have different answers to the questions you have rightly asked, please do so. But it started in the field of dual training, that I recall that 350 companies now have direct contracts for Hungarian higher education, so that students can receive practical training, that there has been a revision of the courses, which are all an important part of the concept. Of course, when these were realized, and since these sometimes involve a violation of interest, we did not get from the opposition side that there was finally a conceptually built plan in which there really was a maintenance of the courses that were really useful to students, but a general protest, then this was not the sign of standing up for such conceptual planning. Or even in this case, when we say that what can be used in Hungary from public money for research and development, is not being challenged or dragged in three or four directions by three or four types of bodies, but must be coordinated, we are also being accused of being completely untrue. Every university's wealth is public property, as is everything that's in the public sector, public property, which is why they need to be handled very, very gently. If you look at your debt to the Hungarian universities and here I would like to convert a little bit to the last period, it was HUF 19.7 billion in May 2013, this decreased to HUF 7 billion for HUF 30 million by May 2018. And if you look at their money supply, the funds of the Hungarian universities were HUF 32 billion in May 2013, now HUF 308 billion; this is more stable. [[20.50]] If I look at the University of Óbuda, he owes HUF 16 million in 2013, in May this year he owes HUF 1 million. That's a lot less. And if I look at the funds of the University of Óbuda: in May 2013, it was 2.3 billion forints, in May this year 5.3 billion forints, so much bigger. The number of students is around 12,000, but obviously, as the population has generally decreased, there is a decrease in this, but these 12 neighborhood numbers were held. In addition, the average annual number of public employees converted to full-time statistics has increased from 750 to 844. The number of instructors increased from 247 to 266 in the average annual statistical number, also translated to full-time. Then the university made a decision that, in fact, the chancellor and the rector made a joint decision to recruit new people. However, there can be no problem with any kind of payment for existing relationships, but obviously the university must also follow a strategy for the increase in the number of people employed in the last few years with a non-enlarged number of students, which, according to the schedule adopted by the university's management in the framework of university autonomy, will result in a certain kind of increased attention. But this does not involve any problems for students, and it serves the long-term sustainability of the university, while guaranteeing the right scientific quality. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-18-292	Thank you. Congressman Balázs Ander, the representative of Jobbik, is now coming with a title entitled "Towards Collapse." Here you go.
u2018-06-18-293	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Over the past few days, political analysts, journalists and we here in the opposition have been feverishly examining the budget figures planned for next year, the figures of the draft budget for which Mr.Orbán said he was earthquake-proof. However, those working in education and scientific life may feel more like they were hit in the head with a baton when faced with these numbers. What's this about? I myself was a practicing teacher before I became a Member of Parliament, and I faced the problems I now wish to speak of, and I would like to bring here the empirical experiential facts, my dear Secretary of State. Let's talk about these specific facts, the Hungarian reality that you so much like to deny, lie down. Let's see. The pedagogical society working in Hungarian public education is the oldest in Europe, since the average age of the professional teachers working here is very high, and two thirds are over 40 years old. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State if we look at next year's budget figures, how they want to attract talented young people to this career, how they want to keep them there, how they want to motivate them. Then let's move on: let's look at the exodus indicators we have. European corner numbers would provide for 10%. The fact is that Hungary is 25 percent above this, the trend that we can observe is worsening. What about these young people, Mr. Secretary? Prison or starvation would obviously be a bad prospect for them and for the whole society. Then we can continue to watch: the Hungarian education system is very selective. What does that mean? That where you were born you will stay for the rest of your life, namely that there is no or very little of the disadvantage-compensating factor or strength that the Hungarian education system currently has. Then we can continue to look at the pathetic reality of competence results. I can bring up here the results of the PISA study in 2015 or the horrific numbers of last year's competence measurement, which showed, for example, that 20 percent of the 10th grade secondary school students, i.e. the 10th grade population, have worse indicators than those of the sixth grade primary school students. Please, how will Hungary become competitive, how will this become a competitive Hungarian industry, how will this become convergence to the desired European level? So, Mr. Secretary, we can't. Let's look at these budget figures. The Klebelsberg Center has received some HUF 590 billion for this year, with 600 billion in the following year, and 150 billion for vocational training centres instead of 145 billion. So instead of 735 billion, we'll see 750 billion next year. That's a 2% increase in paper form, but, Mr. Secretary, you have to admit, inflation is going to take it the way it is. So when you talk about improving education, you are not telling the truth, because you will not get a penny more of Hungarian public education in the coming year. They like to refer to Kuno Klebelsberg, who said that the new defence wallet is actually the cult wallet, so education should be in Hungary. That's right, but you're letting it pass your ears. By the way, the General Assembly of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences has stated that what comes into the field of education in Hungary from budgetary sources is far from enough and is far from social expectations. Mr State Secretary, this is no way to build a competitive Hungarian society, so the road leads to collapse. I indicate that in the ghetto-selling region of North-East Hungary, the rate of dropout is 20 percent. You have drafted a national strategy for social inclusion, but if these things stay in the way they are, they will also be nothing, just as nothing has become of the national rural strategy. We'll be able to rewire it with a national ribbon, we can rely on it, we can give it to you, and we can ask you to do at least what you've planned. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-18-294	Thank you. Secretary of State, please.
u2018-06-18-295	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The budget for next year is indeed a budget for safe growth, because all reserves, either extraordinary government measures, the National Defence Fund or the central reserve, have increased by 50-50 percent, precisely because we want the budget to be safe next year. And, of course, security is also important from the point of view of law enforcement agencies, border protection, everyone who can prevent illegal migration, we have tried to keep their budget safe. However, it is of course important that more positive aspects can be expected in the area of education. What you have raised is that there are few or many older teachers in Hungary: in Hungary, the proportion of teachers over the age of 50 is 37%, and in Europe, the proportion of teachers over the age of 50 is also 37 percent. The proportion of teachers over 50 in Hungary is the same as in Europe. So you could give this speech in all 28 parliaments. This is also a European phenomenon, to which Hungary has, of course, its own response. On the one hand, the teacher career, which represents a 50% wage increase, and next year's budget also includes the additional billions of teachers from the teacher I to the teacher II. 40,000 teachers have already asked for their qualifications, and if they ask for more, of course, this is also covered in the budget. In the case of public education, we can expect a total surplus of HUF 58 billion and HUF 37 billion in higher education. So it's also a very nice amount. What good is it to motivate young people, that's what the congressman asked. We have introduced the Klebelsberg Scholarship, which is now a recognized scholarship, to exactly the problem you are saying. In those parts of the country where it's harder to find a teacher, we write these scholarships out there, and whoever gets them gets to take a teaching job in those districts. Or as a specialist teacher there is a shortage, because there is no such teacher or teacher, we write out the Klebelsberg Scholarship, not only in general, but in precisely what there is the greatest shortage. So we're trying to make a difference in these, too. Klebelsberg Center also has a surplus of HUF 16 billion next year, but, as I said, the Klebelsberg Scholarship Programme was also expected to have a further surplus. But even the Travel Scholarship Programme, which is also relevant for catching up, will add a surplus to the next year's budget. You referred to the position of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. [[21.00]] I read it, too, in which the Academy of Sciences wrote that it would be good if the amount spent on education would reach the European level in proportion to GDP. In Hungary, we spend 5.2 percent of GDP on education, while in Europe we spend 4.9 percent on education. So this ratio is higher in Hungary. Obviously, school buildings need to be modernised to a greater extent, and we have additional tasks. But the marked increase in the salaries of teachers in recent years has also dropped this percentage of the cost of education in proportion to GDP. But I've learned something from you, Your Honour. He said at the beginning of his speech that he was based on empirical experiential facts. This kind of reminds me of the three-colored tricolor and the two-wheeler, but from now on, I'll try to start from empirical experiential facts. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-18-296	Thank you so much. And now, Congressman László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, is following:. Here you go.
u2018-06-18-297	No, thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, There is nothing new under the sun, and it is difficult to explain this to a man who was born in Budapest, who grew up here, and may know Bel-Buda better, and you prefer the Gellért Hill and the Szentimreváros section, or the Lágymányos. Well, it's hard to tell you there's no new under the sun in the country. Obviously, you just exported yourself to Vác because it was politics, but it's not really a country. But accept these comments from a rural representative about how life is taking place in Eastern Hungary today, and how people are sick of the government's promise dumping that was said in 2014, was said in 2018 and has not changed. I can repeat myself: there is no new under the sun. In the Great Kunság, where I come from and where I live, it is already a recurring phenomenon that Fidesz has used its own local government and government opportunities every time, and has practically thrown blank checks at people about what improvements will be made. In 2014, the hit was how much jobs will be created in the Nagykunság or on the shore of Lake Tisza. For example, there was a promise for Tiszafüred, where between 1500 and 2000 jobs were promised to the settlement of ten thousand people, and this development was immediately given to one of the local government entrepreneurs, who managed to get a job or a job out of it. I used to make a video of it, and we've been waiting all day for the employees to arrive at this facility, where they've hired the big support, but no one wanted to arrive at work, not the next day, not in the next few weeks. You did the same thing, you promised Karcagra jobs, even Viktor Orbán came down there to campaign, and he promised that 500-600 new jobs would be created in that particular industrial park. In fact, they even gave me some of the land for free so that it could be created, and by shame, 100 jobs were not created. What does that have to do with nothing new under the sun? With the same promises, they began the next election, and the same promises were sold, fired by the people, in the hope that they would finally be dragged out of the situation in which they were in by the government. Well, they're not in an easy situation. In the Nagykunság and in the area of Lake Tisza and even in the villages along the Tisza there are two to three times the national unemployment rate, and even some settlements with four times the average unemployment rate. For example, Kunmadarason, Tiszabőn, Tiszabura, but I could list Abadszalók and Karcagon as surprisingly multiples of national unemployment. People can't find a job, and so the most important promise they can have is the promise of work. Therefore, when the government promises that it will, and then fails to do so for four years, and then comes again with the promise that it will, and is likely to fail to do so again, people will become hopeless. The other issue is the state of the roads. You were responsible for not being able to get to the Nagykunság, nor can you even get to Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County on the highway. There's only one county now on a national level where there's no freeway. You started building the M4 road, you kicked the dust with your then financiers, and you can point it at anyone else, that's your oligarch. Whatever they say, they and your party founders were in a room, people in a dorm room, and their business. Who, by the way, is rumored to be reliving now, and with another Szolnok county man, a Mr. Nyerges, may once again have a larger business, a larger investment. But you also took that away from the people you promised there'd be a freeway four. Because it didn't. Instead, there was an expressway, which they are now trying to round up, and now they're trying to make it so that it's not life-threatening, even though everything shows it, and just think back to the accident in Ceglédbercel, which was already in the new section, although with alternating traffic, there was no safety element that would have helped them get into trouble there. They're gonna let people go on these trips. It's gonna be, like, Route 4. And where's the renovation of Route 34, where's the renovation of the lower roads? They're all promises left. The other, which is a very big problem, obviously Vácon is not a problem, no problem in Gellérthegy, in the Piarist school there is no need to fight it, but in the elementary school of Tiszabő and the high school of Karcag, and in the elementary school of Abadszalók, Roma-Hungarian coexistence is a problem. And they also promised that they would work this out. They sent not one organization, not two, now the Maltese are in Tiszabő, trying to tidy up, but it is simply impossible to clean up these settlements with a well-thought-out, well-designed strategy. Mr. Secretary. One thing is clear. In 2014, but in 10 and before that, even the Ágnes of Vada, everyone came with the promises. Then they didn't do anything on the steering wheel. It's the same with you in 2014, and it was played the same way in 2018. It's safe to say, in your promise and in the Great Community, there's nothing new under the sun. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-18-298	Thank you very much. Secretary of State of Rétvár, please.
u2018-06-18-299	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, If I just look at the title of his speech that there is no new under the sun, the Jobbik might think about this if he interprets it for himself. In many respects, I am talking about the same old records, not his specific speech, but, in general, the opposition parties, the same expired records, all over and over again, no novum, no innovations, no innovations of any kind, no innovations from the opposition parties. Obviously, this is not a political disadvantage for us, but it is obviously not an advantage for the country to just put on the same disks every year. I'll start with the end, Your Honour. Speaking with the criticism of Gypsy-Hungarian co-existence by Jobbik here in Parliament is a very thick leather. After all, Jobbik was that party. [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] , which came into Parliament in 2010 by creating a conflict between Gypsies and Hungarians. When you came in here in gargoyles, you could remember this period for Jobbik, you wanted to make political capital by trying to intimidate gypsy people, talking about gypsy crime, and the rest, and the rest. We can remember the Guard's vows, marches, and all that, and all that. Your party was formed by wanting to sit on the hatred of Hungarian people against Gypsies. And then you talk about the lack of Gypsy-Hungarian coexistence. In the case of Tiszabó, on the one hand, you mentioned the Maltese Love Service, which has very important results there, as they have been there for years with their presence programme. At first they were just present in the playgrounds, and then they created an electronic disassembling hall where people were given jobs, which made people pay. Then they bought a minivan to take them to the surrounding settlements to get a job; then the van was empty because people could buy a car from their wages. Then they've turned that amount into something else. Step by step, from half a year to six months, the Maltese moved. This was accompanied by several billion HUF support from the state, as we handed over the maintenance of schools and social institutions in Tiszabő and Tiszabura to the Maltese Charity Service by adding billions. It is precisely so that the life prospects and opportunities of the very disadvantaged people there can be improved. Police have launched a special programme in Tiszabő and Tiszabura to restore public security. Honourable Congressman, These settlements were given a new chance, instead of a complete break, the possibility of a fresh start with training, presence on the playground by the Maltese people, and many other elements that really provided support in training, care and social assistance. If you condescend to the government because you think that the embezzlement of an opposition representative is that if the government does anything, you are opposed to at least being condescending to these Maltese volunteers, who are actually planning an important part of their lives from a mission to help people in Tiszabő and Tiszabura. Job creation. There may be a part or two of the country where this is still a problem, but in the overwhelming majority of the country, it is the opposite, the lack of labour that is causing problems. It is therefore clear that companies are looking for places where there is still free labour. Therefore, earlier, the government, as you may recall, has helped those walks with special tax incentives, a number of dozens, which were the most lagging part of the country to allow investors to go there. Luckily, this has a surplus, and there are almost more investors' intentions than free labour, so it can equalise the start-up of the economy and even the possible social problems in these areas. [[21.10]] You say that people are fed up, and people have had enough of this government in 2014 and 2018. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Empty promises!]] [[Dr. László György Lukács: Empty promises!]] I didn't understand exactly whether you were arguing with us or arguing with the voters (Dr. László Lukács: Empty promises!) 'Cause it looked like he was arguing with the voters. You might think that in the little bubble you're living in, people are sick of it. Obviously, Jobbik also has a voting camp, and we respect those people in the same way, because they brought you into Parliament, but regardless of this, the overwhelming majority of people were Fidesz-KDNP, the party that was decorated with their trust in 14 and 18 as well. I do not want to give advice to opposition parties, but if, in 2010, 2014 and 2018, a huge majority is reached in Europe, the governing parties, the Fidesz and the KDNP reach a two-thirds majority in Parliament, perhaps not in the electorate and perhaps not in the governing parties. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Should we get new computer programs?]] It may be worth looking for some faults on their own. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-18-300	Thank you very much. Congressman Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, will now come with the title "The Queen of the West." Here you go.
u2018-06-18-301	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you very much for the fact that Mr Secretary of State is now also competent in Iron County matters, and, to say the least, I am almost dizzy by what has now spread from security policy to the Vas counties in your expertise through the Great Community. Szombathely is a very special place for me. I've been there a lot lately. I think with your sparkling cultural life, the Savaria Carnival, the Weöres Sándor Theatre and its very good catering units, a gateway to Europe that makes it perhaps one of the most enjoyable cities in Hungary. It's very good to be there, I've spent the night there several times, but sometimes it's very difficult to get out of there, like the week before, when there was heavy rains, because because because of a heavy rain, the Zanati Underpass is filled with water, people's cars have to be towed from there, and people can't get out of the city through the main access road. The thing is, in the previous system, in the mid-'70s, today's form was won by this subway. Since then, the city has had socialist or fidesz leadership, they have not been able to change the way it reacted to rains, and there are significant problems with sewers and drainage. Once again, in 2018 in Hungary, in a town with county rights in Western Hungary, drainage and precipitation are a major problem. I go further, the state of the sidewalks is actually tragic throughout the city, but this is mostly true of the family-married areas, the zones where a lot of people travel by strollers. This is where I can say the hundredth of the city or Pearly's Herman. It is almost impossible to travel here with a stroller or wheelchair. It's a sidewalk in these areas that doesn't even win the patched way. Parking problems will be something that I will probably be able to raise after a later agenda, but also not solved in a city with Szombathely County rights. Szombathely is rightly called the Queen of the West, there are many of us, to whom we have a special place in our souls, yet I must say that the Fidesz city guide and Csaba Hende, who once again sits here and tears the istrango to speak about his constituency, has not worked at any level to ensure that the precipitation and pavements are solved in this city. I very much hope that you will also be able to give a satisfactory answer to this, Mr Secretary of State. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-18-302	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, try your last parliamentary task today to respond to this riddle. [[Defiance.]] Here you go.
u2018-06-18-303	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Congressman, you're really pushing the limits of my abilities. [[Defiance.]] [[Defiance.]] But I'll try everything. Indeed, Szombathely is an outstanding tourist destination, not only for you, but also for many others. I'm not sure how much of the 136 282 guest nights in 2017 you can own (Development). But surely not the 17.5 percent in which foreigners visit Szombathely, so it is indeed popular, visited by many, not only during the carnival, but also at other times. By the way, the most popular place visited by visiting tourists is that you visited these, the indoor swimming pool and the thermal bath, and the second is the slide park, where 70,000 people go, but 19 thousand people go to the nearby Kamoni Arboretum, which is the third most popular attraction in the area. As far as roads are concerned, the section between Győr and Szombathely was built as an M86 expressway in the area of transport development investments. This was important because Szombathely was able to turn on the national expressway network. In the spring of 2018, an important section between Körmend and Rábafüzes was built for the M8 highway, as well as the extension of the main road 86 between Szombathely and Egyházasradóc twice, which is similar to the two-track expansion between Vác and Budapest. In rail transport there was also a renovation between Szombathely and Zalaszentiván, as well as six modern, low-floor and air-conditioned motor trains. [[Péter Ungár: And the channel? Defiance.]] I can tell you about these improvements in transport, honourable Member. I trust that, in terms of inland roads as well, what you are referring to, I think it is an inland road, which is obviously not a government competence, but the possibility of the municipality will be a noticeable advance, and then everyone will be even more inclined to go to Szombathely. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-18-304	Thank you very much for the answer, which brings to your memories in the Member who is currently chairing, that he, in turn, was allowed to spend 365 guest nights in Szombathely. [[Defiance.]] [[Defiance.]] He does not wish to share his experiences in the public domain of Parliament. (Faintness.) Dear Parliament! This brings us to the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thanking you for your work, the Parliament will resume its meeting on Wednesday morning at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. Good evening, good night, everyone.
