u2018-12-03-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 26th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, you will receive the help of Attila Gelencsér and Bence Tordai. Welcome to our dear guests and everyone who's watching our work. Dear Parliament, We begin our work today with speeches before the agenda, after which from 12:15 a.m. to 13:45 a.m. the questions will take place, then from approximately 13:45 a.m. to 14:45 a.m. the hour of immediate questions and answers will follow, and we will conclude the Parliament's meeting with the speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, Mr Sándor Szabó, from the MSZP Group, applied for a pre-meeting address:.. On the occasion of the World Day for People with Disabilities. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-12-03-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Since 1992, 3rd December is the International Day of People with Disabilities. The purpose of the World Day set up by the UN is to draw attention to the fate of our fellow human beings who have become disabled as a result of illness or accident. In Hungary we are talking about 600 thousand people, and otherwise their situation or fate is directly affecting one third of the population. On the occasion of World Day for people with disabilities, allow me, before the agenda, to talk about people with health problems that we think have been adversely affected by the governance of the last eight years, perhaps it can be said that the government has left them a little on the side of the road. Let's start with perhaps the most drastic measure that marked the termination of the disability pension. In 2010, you sent over 200,000 people to an extraordinary review by re-establishing whether these people really need state care. Following these extraordinary, inhumane reviews, it was found that there were hundreds of thousands of people who were not eligible for State aid, who reduced their care by more than 50 percent or who completely took it away, even though these people did not become healthier. But the truth prevailed: recently, the Constitutional Court stated that what you did in 2012 was entirely wrong, as the whole system was otherwise adapted in 2012, placing a disproportionate burden on those affected by the definition of benefits or a significant reduction thereof. Even then, we have made it clear that what they are doing is unjust and inhuman, that invalids cannot be made a scapegoat, that all of their actions are inhumane, and unfortunately, their decision has had serious consequences, since humiliation, poverty, homelessness, and in many cases suicide followed their actions. Based on the recent decision of AB, the MSZP submitted its proposal on the immediate compensation of disabled pensioners a few weeks ago, but the Fidesz majority of the Welfare Committee did not even wish to discuss our proposal. We do not know exactly how many disabled persons are affected by the Constitutional Court's decision, but we are probably talking about tens of thousands of people, millions of compensations. Let's look at another case, the matter of home care. For years, stakeholders have been struggling to ensure that their activities are finally recognised as work by the State and at least raise the level of State aid to the minimum wage. After a long struggle, stakeholders, civilians and opposition parties have finally succeeded in achieving something that the government is doing in this matter, but this step only represents a major change for some of the right holders and for them, not exactly what they would have wanted to achieve otherwise. They want to increase the cost of home care for children to HUF 100,000, which will be entitled to those who care for their children, no matter how many years old they are. This basically also treats adult caregivers as children, which in itself is humiliating to the caregivers. At the same time, those who care for their other close relatives, such as their own parents, do not receive such support, and they will receive only a 15% increase, which does not compensate for the impairment of recent years. In order to solve all these problems, we also proposed that the basic amount of state aid should be the minimum wage at all times, because, in our opinion, the amount of care should not be dependent on family status, but on the state of health care. But there are problems not only in the care of people with disabilities. We are also lagging behind in things that determine the rest of their lives compared to European countries. For example, the question of accessibility is: not only do people with disabilities have to get to government offices, do business, go to the store, go to a doctor's office, I think there is still a problem, there is a lag; or it is the question of exercising suffrage. The national advocacy organization of intellectual retards has been fighting for a long time to draw attention to nearly 60,000 people. Of course, according to the government, this is not a problem, which is interesting because even according to Fidesz MEP Ádám Kósa, the current situation is discriminatory. To sum up, therefore, we can say that the government has set aside the problems of the disabled over the last eight years, although it has sometimes dredged something for them, but its actions have not led to any meaningful improvement in the income situation of those affected or in their everyday living conditions. Of course, at the level of words, it was better to do so now, but the reality is different. I ask you to do much more for the daily lives of our fellow countrymen with disabilities. Thank you for listening.
u2018-12-03-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2018-12-03-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I believe that in recent years, progress has been made not only at the level of various deliberations or declarations, but also in substance, to make progress that will help people with disabilities; to help them feel greater care on the part of the state when they are unable to provide for themselves, but also the possibility of living a life closer to a life of full value if they can still work in some part, they can provide for themselves. If I only look at how many government measures have been implemented in the government action plan for people with disabilities between 2015 and 2018, then there are 80 steps that are smaller, larger, sometimes more detailed, or more central, but have helped people with disabilities. You mentioned two main issues, honourable Member: one is the decision of the Constitutional Court on the employment of people with disabilities and the other is the question of home care. Contrary to what happened in your time, these people were abandoned, and their employment level in 2010 was 18%, it now increased to 40 percent. So you may have said one or two nice sentences on different world days, but you left their employment at 18 percent. We, however, have been able to provide real, meaningful help with various tax changes and benefits from a rehabilitation card, as I said, raising their employment levels from 18% to 40%. [[11.10]] And if you look at the last few years, for example, between 2014 and next year's budget, you are looking at government items for rehabilitation employment, which, of course, are the victims of austerity at your time, as are the wages of social workers, where you have taken a month's wages from all social workers, but now there is expansion: from 34 billion to 42 billion forints, from 8 billion forints to 23.5 percent for rehabilitation employment. These are not just words, they are serious government resources, and these government resources are well targeted, as they will deliver their results. If you look at the number of employers in the area of 2010-12, who had a reduced number of workers employed with reduced contributions from the rehabilitation card, then we found only 3217, now 9125. The number of employers who employed people with disabilities in Hungary has increased nearly three times as a result of the new rules on contributions. But to a greater extent, the number of people employed has increased at an even higher rate. After all, in 2012, 5500 people were employed with a rehabilitation card, now 37 200. The number of people who have been put to work has increased 6.7 times, more than six times. They can live on their own, not as aid, not as vulnerable. Honourable Congressman, You mentioned home care. You have substantially frozen this form of supply in your last term of government, and have raised nothing on it. By contrast, between 2010 and 18 we raised the prize for the most serious family members at home by 65 percent, since in addition to a new basic and raised category, we created a priority category and continuously raised their items. The priority category is also subject to a premium. From 1 January 2019 we will introduce, as you mentioned, the child care fee, which will amount to 100 thousand forints. If you care for more than one child at home, and the child, as you said, has given him an exact wrong interpretation framework, because the child not only matters until he is 18 years old, but as long as someone cares for his descendant, his child at home, this discount is due to him, and the child does not cease to exist at the age of 18 or 23, or at any age. Well, if you care for more of your children at home, this means a fee of HUF 150,000, and in the coming years it will increase by 2022 it will be equal to the amount of the minimum wage at that time. It's a raise that you couldn't even dream of in your cycle. In addition, there will be a radical rise, not to care for your child, but to care for other relatives: from 1 January next year a 15 percent increase for everyone, then 5 percent for the following year, then 5 percent again, then 5 percent again. This means that a 30% increase will take place here by 2022. Honourable Congressman, Those who are able to work can now be given a job effectively. A radical increase to the minimum wage level or a 30% increase to the government objective of the coming years, in some cases up to 65% increase in the previous period. I think people with disabilities can only count on the national government on this day. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-12-03-4	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Oláh, MEP, Democratic Coalition, has also applied for a pre-meeting speech:. Ma CEU, and tomorrow? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-12-03-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday there was a Hungarian university among the 100 best universities in the world, it seems that soon there will be no more. Congratulations, Fidesz MEPs. We managed to chase away the most successful home university. That's something. It's not something that a sane government does in its own country. We can say that this is a unique achievement that Mátyás Rákosi would be proud of. Because you know that universities are only closed in dictatorships, university studies are banned only in dictatorships, never in democracies. They managed to kick something into Hungarian education with a single decision during their small-scale pretend war, which they will feel for many years. We'll be able to talk about vitamin C, Albert Szent-Györgyi and Semmelweis in a hundred years' time, because there won't be any new geniuses in this country; that's what you've decided. It's possible to tell you what we've been able to do for the last thousand years so we don't have to talk about what we're gonna be in the next hundred. No more Hungarian Nobel Prize winners will have to be chased away, because there will be no one who wants to represent this country with his knowledge. We don't need knowledge, we don't need science, we don't need education. That's what you're telling me by chasing the CEU, bleeding out the MTA. Researchers and scientists understand the message. The Hungarian discoveries and inventions of the future will be American and German discoveries, because these people do not need your Hungary. Their only crime is that they don't believe in three-word billboards, and those who can think for themselves are dangerous to power. We get it, they get it. They understood the message when your propaganda fund began to list them as Soros agents, and they understand now when you tell them that you don't need research and freedom, and you don't need one of the best universities in the world. Then we assemble other people's cars, and then we reminisce about how successful this nation was when the thinking man was not yet persecuted. Runaway criminals can come, smart people and colleges can go! The Goulash and the Túró Rudi remain, fellow Members, the Hungarian innovation is over. And I could continue to say that we will not be everything, and how the international image of Hungarian ingenuity is destroyed by the destruction of your dictatorship, but I know that this does not impress you very much. Let's talk about money, fellow Members. That's all you understand anyway. For you, politics is about money, everyone is worth what they have; what they have, as John Lazarus said. CEU brought HUF 10 billion from the international research fund to Hungary. 10,000 million Forints could be researched without costing the Hungarian taxpayers any forints. You will not replace this because you need the money for football, and you will not replace the CEU scholarship programme. You say that poor children don't get the knowledge they want to learn, go to the register, as they've already started with Corvinus. But he that was born poor shall remain poor; this is the order of the world according to them. We Hungarians in Europe see the world very differently. We say that everyone has the opportunity to prosper according to his talent and diligence. This was also represented by the CEU. It's okay if someone comes from the village of Upstairs, if they're talented, they'll pay him to study in Oxford. As many members of the Orbán government graduated from CEU, if they didn't get the chance, they wouldn't be sitting in State Audi today, they wouldn't be State Secretarys and they wouldn't have a million-dollar salary. They want other people not to get this opportunity that you've been given. Now, the smartest young Hungarians in Europe will not go abroad after the university, but before, even during high school. This country is not for Hungarians in Europe today, but for you, but we Hungarians in Europe will not accept it. We're here, and we'll be here even if you don't like it. You're the labs today! Today you sell your country, today you represent the interests of Vienna. Today, because of you, a university is leaving Budapest to Vienna, which is expected with open arms. Today's CEU, tomorrow's MTA, Corvinus, and I can continue the line. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of DK, MSZP, LMP and independents.]]
u2018-12-03-6	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-12-03-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The year you talk about the fact that it is harder for young Hungarians, poor Hungarians, to get into higher education, in which year the government decided to increase social scholarships by 40%. Today, therefore, it is much less a problem, and from 1 September next year it will be much less a problem for a young Hungarian with a difficult fate to get into universities. [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] That their social scholarships are rising by 40%. It is not the time, honourable Member, when all civil servants, including teachers and university teachers, were deprived of a month's wages. [[Zsolt Gréczy: 15,000 more attended university!]] but it is the time when the overall resources of Hungarian higher education, if you look at the normative of your students, grow from 119 thousand forints to 166 thousand forints in two years. [[Intercom in DK's benches.]] And every prospective student in Hungary can expect that the university study can be much less problematic financially, as the rate of social scholarships in Hungarian higher education is 40 percent higher or will be much higher in the next two years. [[11.20]] Not to mention that if you want to study after the university you talked about the Nobel Prize winners of the future, instead of 1300 students, we will fund your PhD studies for 2 thousand students to get a science degree after the university, not 1300, but 2 thousand. This amount also increased to pay not only 1300 young people, but also 2 thousand young Hungarians. [[Zsolt Gréczy: 15,000 fewer people go to college!]] The first step is HUF 6.5 billion in surplus, and the second step is HUF 745 million in surplus for young people in talented, Hungarian and difficult financial situations. It adds this to the 43 percent we've increased the framework for higher education. Fortunately, this also has international recognition in many areas. You said that Hungarian innovations are only expected from the Soros University. Name one. [[Zsolt Gréczy: He didn't say that! Why would you say that?]] Name one. You can't say anything, Your Honour. [[Zsolt Gréczy: He didn't say that! Why are you lying?]] You're talking about something that isn't. There may be a gender major, but where are the innovations you were talking about, which would have brought Hungary forward? Honourable Congressman, You say how badly Hungary stands in innovation. Then why is the BMW coming here? Then why is Jaguar building its development center here? We couldn't talk about that in your time. [[Zsolt Gréczy: And who brought the Mercedes here?]] Now there are such real innovations. Honourable Congressman, It's a time like this. You cannot say any innovation, therefore, which would have made Hungary a better country. Honourable Congressman, You are completely unfair, and the Hungarian university lecturers, the Hungarian university students, are very leniently placed a sign of equality between the Soros University and Hungarian higher education, while hundreds of thousands of hardworking Hungarian students are studying in Hungarian higher education, thousands and tens of thousands of teachers train these students every day, and 1700 students are studying at the Soros University, of whom about 80 percent are foreign students. Yet you are making a sign of equality between the Soros University and the Hungarian universities. And he also said that talented students are only at the Soros University, and he looked down on all the other hundreds of thousands of Hungarian students that there will be no Nobel Prize winners in Hungary. [[Zsolt Gréczy: He didn't say that! Don't lie to me.]] , among them there will not be any young people in Hungary who can advance the fate of either innovative or Hungary. You said that all Hungarian universities outside the Soros University are building only and exclusively assembly countries. Well, we absolutely reject that, Your Honour. And not only do we reject it, but when you look at it, Academic Rangking of World Universities in 2018, there were five Hungarian universities: ELTE, University of Szeged, Semmelweis University, Budapest University of Technology and Economics and University of Debrecen. In the 2018 ranking of Times Higher Education there are seven Hungarian universities, Semmelweis University, Eötvös Loránd University, University of Pécs, University of Szeged, Budapest University of Technology and Economics, Corvinus University of Budapest and University of Debrecen. When you say that the Soros University is equal to Hungarian higher education, universities that, based on real performance, were able to enter into the world's excellence... [[Zsolt Gréczy: Why are you lying?]]
u2018-12-03-8	Congressmen! [[Zsolt Gréczy: But, Mr. President, you are full of lies!]] Please, no arguments. Congressman's been commenting the whole time. You didn't speak up, and I'm sorry, but you have no right to comment. It's not a conversation. First warning! Thank you. Go on, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-12-03-9	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. So, honourable Member, you have managed to insult hundreds of thousands of Hungarian students, tens of thousands of Hungarian teachers, just to put down your loyalty oath here in Parliament alongside George Soros. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Lajos Oláh applauds for a long time.]]
u2018-12-03-10	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Thank you, gentlemen. Dear Parliament, Representative Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik Group has applied for a pre-meeting speech: . Whose interest is it? It's an address. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2018-12-03-11	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would pick up where we finished last Tuesday night, and at the same time, I did not know, but I will answer the question of Secretary of State Rétvári in my speech before the agenda. Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs, said last Tuesday or Monday that the companies in North Rhine-Westphalia, which invested in Hungary, had long asked to provide them with the necessary workforce. They are now pleased with the government's proposal to do so. We have received an answer as to whose interest it is to amend the Labour Code. When I read this bill, the first thing I remembered was that this law, the employment code called the Labour Code, was six years old. Why did the government now think that they should modify this by ordering overwork for 400 hours? I asked why now, why so, because it was tabled as a motion for individual representatives, and what is the actuality that suddenly has to be so harshly and hard hit on the lives of our countrymen and fellow workers. Then the picture came together, as Minister for Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó gave the answer to the BMW plant which, apparently, wants to build another assembly plant in Hungary. When this issue came up, and the government, perhaps the Prime Minister, announced it, I began to think again, if the BMW plant wants to install a new factory here because of the favourable Hungarian tax conditions, then why not in Sopron's neighbourhood, that the component, the raw material, would get there as soon as possible. Why do you have to go all the way to Debrecen and travel across the country? After all, no one thinks that Ukraine, Romania, Bulgaria and Russia would suddenly want to buy a quantity of BMW that would make it necessary to install it in the vicinity of Debrecen. Then I got the answer, because there are 20,000 Ukrainian workers in Hungary, they were the main test. So it is conceivable, my fellow Members, that this BMW factory is coming here to work, that not only did you agree that the Hungarian state would give that area as a gift, I do not know why it is 44 billion today, because you can buy a whole county around Debrecen, but let's say for 44 billion we will import even Ukrainian workers into the BMW factory in Debrecen. And it is not the Hungarian workers, not the Hungarian innovation, not the Hungarian interests, but the cheap, even from Ukraine that the BMW factory can expect in Debrecen. It's very strange to think about it, since this investment in Debrecen was announced by the government, the BMW is silent as if it had nothing to do with it. I realized that this silence is because first they wait for Debrecen to take on this huge 44 billion-dollar loan to buy the land and give it as a gift, to wait for him to employ 20 percent less people, since he can demand 400 hours of overtime, so it might be worth the BMW factory to set up a new assembly plant in Debrecen. Dear Government, Dear rapporteur, We have listened to this terrible bill in individual submissions. It would not be worth telling the Hungarian people honestly what the real purpose of this is. We know, of course, that there can be a shortage of labour, because this means that if 400 hours of overtime can be done, then the Hungarian workforce will be overloaded, there will be no substitute, no additional labour needs to be obtained much more expensive than before, as today workers are in a negotiating position with employers. So I ask you to respond to the question of whose interest this amendment to the Code of Work is. But I will also ask the respondents that when they list that Jobbik is in a crisis of identity, they have financial problems, female-beater, Jewish-hating, Simicska-wrenching, soul-sleeping, so when all of these things are listed in the answer, they should take a little time to answer the question of whose interest this amendment of the Code of Work is in. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-12-03-12	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Sándor Bodó, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-12-03-13	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Congresswoman and Lords! By how and how a political community characterizes itself, I think I do not have to argue with the one who tells it. I must, however, argue with you, honourable Member, that you are drawing up trends in the Hungarian labour market that are not due to reality. With your permission, I would like to draw attention to the very positive movement that has taken place in the past, and one of the latest results of this is that more than four and a half million people are working in Hungary today. These are stubborn facts, and it's hard to argue with them, and I hope you don't either. [[11.30]] The unemployment rate is 3.7 percent, which is indeed an indicator that many people in Europe would envy. I find it rather strange to hear you say that you are speaking against East Hungary in connection with the BMW investment. He is speaking against Eastern Hungary, and on some occasions he may have complained about why economic investments are not being made, government decisions that give this region an opportunity. It would be worth considering which one of your thoughts is real. The draft law on the organisation of working time and minimum rental rates for temporary agency workers aims to amend the current rules on working time and the conditions for better application of the working time frame, and aims at guaranteeing the wages of temporary agency workers through the definition of the rental fee. The intended objective is therefore in no way to encourage the avoidance of taxes on businesses or to undermine workers' rights. On the contrary, the proposal under discussion lays down rules, lays down rights and obligations to promote a better functioning of the world of work, thus also serving the interests of all actors, employers and workers. Modernising the organisation of working time in a number of economic areas is necessary primarily for workers in a different working order and for employers who apply them, as this will enable the creation of working conditions adapted to the current economic environment. The amendment to the current rules on temporary agency work aims to promote the legitimate employment conditions of another sector, which is also becoming increasingly active at present. The bill before you gives the government the authority to establish the minimum rental fee for temporary agency work in a regulation. The introduction of the minimum rental fee fixed in the regulation, which is mandatory for the rental of work, guarantees that temporary agency workers will have access to the guaranteed minimum wage, minimum wage and, on the other hand, honourable Member, such a fixed fee will also contribute to the payment of the public wage by businesses. The proposal would therefore not only support tax-absorbed employers who cheat on wages, but it would be possible to use this tool to drive businesses that operate illegally. We are all aware that the functioning of the economy has changed in recent years. Accelerated production works with short deadlines, where rapid responses are needed to solve the problems that arise. Production cycles and production processes operate in accordance with different rules than before, and the legislation has to be adapted to this. Rental of workers is an atypical form of employment compared to the general rules of employment; indeed, these are now also necessary in order to achieve an appropriate labour market response. Under the current labour law rules, Hungarian employers, if they are subject to winding-up proceedings, must pay primarily the wages and other wage benefits from their assets covered by liquidation. If the employer who has been wound up does not have cover for this, the wage guarantee law provides that an amount fixed by law may be advanced from the unpaid salary due to an entity in liquidation or compulsory cancellation proceedings against the employee. The application for aid shall be submitted to the public employment body by the liquidator or his agent. In recent years, the government has therefore taken decisive steps to significantly increase the level of wages and whiten the economy. The proposal is part of this process. The ruling party does not break the rules of the world of work, but supports its operation. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-12-03-14	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, on behalf of the LMP Group, also applied for a speech before the agenda:. Whose side does the Hungarian government take up in Katowice? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2018-12-03-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The climate summit in Katowice started yesterday, with a stakes much higher than those of previous parties. I think it is even bigger than the Paris climate summit, as the IPCC report has recently been published, which paints a rather dark picture of the future. And if we don't act quickly and in substance, then we are putting our future in jeopardy. As a reminder, the Paris Climate Summit has set the goal of keeping the temperature rise within 2 degrees Celsius, but 1.5 degrees Celsius is desirable. However, we already know that when we look at the voluntary commitments that have been added up, what governments have volunteered to reduce, it remains above 3 degrees Celsius. Which is a very, very big problem, and it will be a tragic future for mankind. We have to face this. Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, the countries of the world are using the earth's finite resources in different proportions, but at an unacceptable and accelerating rate overall. One of mankind's greatest common problems today has become climate change as a result of man's irresponsible behavior. According to the latest UN report, mankind has only ten years left to reduce the amount of CO2 in and out of the atmosphere, otherwise we will have to face dramatic environmental, social and economic changes. A global average temperature increase of 1.5 degrees Celsius at critical level is expected to be achieved by 2030, even if by then each country would reduce CO2 emissions by at least 45 percent and 85 percent of recovered energy sources would come from renewable energy sources. But what does Hungary do when we are one of the most sensitive and vulnerable regions in Europe in terms of climate change? What does the Hungarian government do to prevent our country and the Carpathian Basin from becoming an unliving, deserted region? I'm afraid it's almost nothing. The national strategy for climate change, which has recently been discussed in Parliament, I will not exaggerate if I say that it is late and very few. After several years of slipping and not taking into account the changed domestic circumstances, he was brought before the National Assembly. It was built on an initial situation such as the economic restructuring after the change of regime and the effects of the financial and economic crisis. On the other hand, CO2 emissions have an average annual increase of 5.6 per cent from 2015 which exceeds the growth rate of 2-4 per cent of GDP over this period. In other words, the Hungarian carbon intensity is deteriorating and shows an unsustainable path. NES is now obsolete. Not to mention that the inventory of adaptation tasks, their definition, their implementation schedule and the conditions for implementation remain far below what is necessary. Péter Szijjártó said recently that the service of German car manufacturers is more important than the health of Hungarian people. Unfortunately, this is supported by the government's entire environmental policy. From the complete dismantling of the environmental institutional system to the ban on disposable plastics, instead of the insulation of residential buildings, the Hungarian government's thinking extends to the expansion of the expensive and dangerous Paks nuclear power plant when it comes to our common future and the control of climate change. Ladies and gentlemen, Climate change is a global problem that can only be solved with other countries, but others will not do it for us. At the current climate summit, there will be two positions: those who are committed to combating climate change and those who want to withdraw. For the former, it will be important to save our planet and our future, in the latter, to serve capital and multinational companies without further criticism. We very much hope that the government will support the first position. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2018-12-03-16	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Péter Cseresnyés wishes to respond to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-12-03-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to state that the Hungarian government is important both for the Hungarian economy and for the health of Hungarian people. I'm not sure a statement that hasn't been made should bring with it such a thought worth translating. [[11.40]] So the health of the people is as important to us as the Hungarian economy to ensure the people's presence and well-being, and, of course, after speaking about climate change, the environment is very important to the Hungarian government, to reduce climate change, to stop what we have to do in this respect, we will do everything we can. It can be said that global climate change is a problem that threatens the environment and human society, which can partly be a reason for our society and for the functioning of our economy. It is necessary to try to correct this disease by establishing a proper diagnosis and by seeking appropriate prevention. The situation and the consequences of this problem are well understood by the government, it is also aware of its importance, and of course we know how much the Carpathian Basin is involved in this, how much our country is involved in this. For this reason, Hungary has been exemplary in the area of global warming and its management in recent years. Our energy track and the development of our energy mix are developing towards clean and carbon neutral operation, for example by maintaining the role of nuclear energy production and increasing the role of renewable energy. At present, there is a bill before the National Assembly aimed at Hungary's exclusive use of its revenues from the emission quota trade for greening and climate protection purposes. These funds are expected to be worth several hundred billion forints between 2021 and 2030, the proper selection of which can significantly contribute to the development of the domestic energy system, its transition to carbon-neutral and clean energies, while increasing the competitiveness of our country. However, we cannot solve this problem alone, of course, so it is very important to cooperate with different countries or even with international organisations, with organisations that are trying to address climate problems in the various climate policy measures and negotiations. We are in the same position that the EU, together with the Member States, has taken. In doing so, our main objective is to adopt and apply the so-called Paris Work Programme, which includes the implementing rules for the Paris Agreement, in order to be able to start implementing the Paris Agreement effectively from 2020. The implementation of the EU's commitment announced in 2014 is outstanding. EU legislation has been adopted to ensure that the Community achieves a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions of at least 40% by 2030, which is not contrary to what you said at the 45 per cent target, which is already your target. International climate finance negotiations will also be of particular importance at the Climate Summit. The EU is currently the world's largest climate funder. Hungary participates in this effort in a proportionate manner, both through bilateral mutual programmes and through payments to international organisations. In the remaining time, let me say a few words about the results we have already achieved in this area. In line with the government's commitment to climate protection objectives, particular attention is paid to reducing the emissions associated with domestic energy production to the lowest possible extent in the country's geographical and economic conditions and to increasing the share of renewable energy use while stabilising the role of nuclear energy. In the latter area, Hungary already exceeds the EU's expectations. By 2020, we have set ourselves a target of more than 14 per cent of our mandatory 13 per cent, of precisely 14.65 per cent renewable share, so we have overachieved this, which has already been imposed on us by EU rules. The share of gross final energy consumption is already 14.2 percent renewable in 2016, which means that we have achieved the mandatory target four years earlier than in 2020. It is important to stress, Congresswoman, that in 2010, alongside the minimum hydropower production of the Tisalök power plant in Hungary, almost zero percent of renewable energy was used, so you can see that the government is committed to climate protection and is committed to using renewable energy. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-03-18	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Kocsis-Cake Olivio, Group of Dialogues, also spoke before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-12-03-19	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Last week, it turned out that after this year's national consultation and the anti-Sargentini campaign, the government is launching another poster campaign for 4.7 billion now. The consultation costs are now at 10 billion this year. The new campaign's work title is: to carry out the tasks related to government communication on the international and domestic scene concerning the future of Europe. This is interesting because not so long ago, in the spring, the European Union launched a consultation on the future of Europe, in which only the Hungarian government did not participate from the 27 Member States, even though it was a question of migration, of course not in an instigating and hatesome way, as Fidesz used to deal with this issue. Moreover, the European questionnaire was not written by employees of the European Commission but by 96 citizens independent of the EU institution. It might have been worth taking part in this and saving money for Hungarian taxpayers. But you could have consulted at home on a number of important issues. In 2011, there was a biased but meaningful consultation on the Fundamental Law; it is understandable because there were real questions. But the answers were no longer taken into account by Fidesz. For example, it was a question whether the Hungarian government, the Hungarian constitution, should commit to future generations, and whether the new constitution should protect national wealth, especially agricultural land and water resources. 86 and 97 percent of respondents said that they did. Compared to this, there have been serious environmental damage in the last eight years, it is enough to think of the City Park or Orczy Garden, but if we are talking about water supply, Pakson has not acted on the intention of the government to boil the Danube or to manage the introduction of hazardous pollutants into the Danube at the Óbuda Gas Factory. Another question was that the State should only allow a company whose ownership structure is transparent to participate in public procurement. 92 percent answered yes. Compared to this, under the Fidesz administration, we can only thank investigative reports for knowing that Simicska, Mészáros and Tiborcz interests win the most public procurement. Let's not talk about settlement bonds, where an offshore company stole the profits. The most recent question is that the new constitution should impose a penalty on the person to whom a committee of inquiry from Parliament sends a summons to be heard. This was also supported by the majority, compared to which Fidesz has not authorised one committee of inquiry in eight years. We are curious to see if the Macedonian Prime Minister will approve the Committee of Inquiry. It can also be concluded that Fidesz did not respect its own consultation, the opinion of its own voters. Can the government's consultations be trusted after this? You could be trusted to consult on real matters. For example, in the last eight years, the new electoral system could have been consulted, instead Fidesz unilaterally rewritten the electoral system, transformed the constituencies in such a way that they favored the current right, bought and bought residential settlements, and created a constituency across the Danube without any consultation. It was also worth consulting on the downfall of private pension funds; the nationalization of private pension fund assets of HUF 3000 billion affected the Hungarian people's savings. There was also no consultation on the tightening up of disability and early retirement and the abolition of housing savings. It wasn't about the Budapest Olympics either, and it had its consequences. But you can't stay out of line, Paks II. A referendum should have been held on a matter of this magnitude, but at least it should be consulted. It's irresponsible to spend 4,000 billion on a contract signed overnight, even though that's what happened. However, it would have been enough to consult employees and employers on the current code of work, but this did not work either. Instead, only the proposals of the leaders of multinational car manufacturers were enshrined in the law. The Dialogue has launched a real consultation, the result of which has been allocated to my fellow Members. We don't have tens of billions to campaign, but they answered the questions with a nice number. I see that one of my fellow Members has thrown the outcome of the consultation to the ground, and I will ask Mr Rétvári, Secretary of State, to reprimand him, as did Bangóné, who ripped up the questionnaire the last time. Our most important question was about health care. Last week's news is that due to a shortage of specialists, the pre-natal center of the Honvéd Hospital has to be closed for a while. Finally, let me give you a piece of information on why we should consult on health care. [[11.50]] One paramedic, one driver, takes home 90-110,000 forints a month. A paramedic takes home 130-150,000 forints. A Bratislava paramedic, on the other hand, takes home a euro equivalent to 450,000 forints. That's what we should be consulting on. Thank you for listening.
u2018-12-03-20	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, who wishes to respond on behalf of the government.
u2018-12-03-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, It's always a bad experience when we have to use the word lie in this House or that you're lying. When you claim that the government did not participate in the consultation on the future of Europe, the fact is that you are lying. The government has announced its participation in this forum. In several large Hungarian cities, he held full-husband forums. Four of the state ministers sitting here attended such forums in Zalaegerszeg, Székesfehérvár, Szombathely. I was in the Kecskemét forum myself, by the way. All these forums were full of houses. I would like to inform you that the most important messages of the forums will be sent to the European institutions and, by the way, also to President Emmanuel Macron, who himself urged that there should be such consultations. It is an important fact that the government did not just start this, but years ago, and there have been many consultations on the part of the government where important issues concerning the future of Europe have been discussed, important powers, energy regulation, immigration, taxation, you can remember this. These results were also included in the report to the EU institutions, which is the case. So we didn't just start like other countries, we started years ago. I am very sorry that for any reason you have not been informed or are consciously trying to mislead the public. Just as important is the fact that you are attacking the family political consultation. My only problem is that there is a reason for this; it is that they are actually attacking because they are also attacking family policy measures. For example, your president or one of his presidents, because you have more than one in April, he said he would limit family tax relief. In October, you said the expansion of the CSOK was a mistake. So you think it's wrong for families with two children to get more preferential loans. Then Richard Barabás may be with you, although this is hard to follow, he said that the extension of the CSOK brings back the most embarrassing period of communism. I would also like to inform him that in communism, they did not give, but took, for example, real estate, like my family. If you look at their specific suggestions, it's not a rosy picture. You want a basic income, which would lead to the fact that it would be much more worthwhile to live on aid again than from work. Your advisor is even contemplating how to introduce a central property tax in Hungary. So if we put your measures into effect, it would not help the Hungarian families, it would put a burden on them. As regards the issues in the consultation, such as health, let me ask you why, if the issue of health is really so important, they did not support the 2019 budget, which would set aside HUF 101 billion more than this year in this area. Children's meals are also included in this proposal. This government is the one that provides a free meal for 630,000 Hungarian children. The MSZP, to which you have joined in electoral cooperation, could not ensure this. For example, they are attacking the Paks expansion, but they do not answer at all that if the Paks expansion falls out, if the Hungarian electricity becomes more expensive, who should raise this cost. The Hungarian families or the government? But what area would you take the money from? And to bring up a fourth: the Dialogue, if I understand it correctly, would give powers to Brussels, for example, in the area of justice. So would the MSZP, so would the Jobbik, by the way. After numerous consultations, referendums and parliamentary elections, we think that we rightly believe that Hungarian people do not want to give rights to Brussels. I consider it important and to be appreciated that you already believe in the consultation institution, ask your supporters, and I respect your opinion, but there is a very serious circumstance, namely that you have joined the MSZP in electoral cooperation. They did not ask for a high price, they asked for the hope of a single mandate in the European Parliament. They joined only to address the issues raised by you, who would have made health care pay, who closed hospitals, who did not extend the family benefits, but took them away, who did not give a helping hand to foreign exchange lenders, but gave way to foreign exchange lending, and always sided with the banks, and also supported the expansion of Paks in Parliament's resolution. There is another question in this distributed document, and that is the question of corruption. If you consider the fight against corruption important, I suggest you ask your old-new ally how Csaba Czeglédy's case stands. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-03-22	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, representative of KDNP also applied for a speech before the agenda:.The Hungarian society celebrates the miners on St. Borbála's day tomorrow. Mr. Vice President, you have the floor.
u2018-12-03-23	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, One day before Borbála Day, the patron saint of miners and smiths, allow me to welcome from here still active and retired representatives of this long-standing profession and all those who preserve and cultivate the traditions of this noble profession. We have something to remember and we have something to celebrate, because for centuries this industry has been the driving sector of the Hungarian economy not only in economic but also in cultural terms. Because, in fact, the majority of the other industries developed in the mining sector, and within the bosom of mining, geology, mineral and rock science, crystal science, mechanical engineering and mechanics, measurement, chemistry, industrial and industrial economics developed into science, to mention only the most important ones. The fact that this scientific development could have taken place is largely due to Bergschule, established in 1735, the later Mining and Forestry Academy, which is already the 18th century. It was also a knowledge centre that was recognised and visited throughout Europe. Banská Štiavnica could also become the centre of the Hungarian mining edge and the XIX. As a starting point for end-of-century professional organizations, it was able to meet the expectations of the institution at the highest possible level. But from the point of view of the domestic mining edge, the National Hungarian Mining and Coalition Association, which was founded in Štiavnica in 1892, sought out the successive governments with a number of proposals for mining and metallurgy, focusing their attention on the challenges of the profession, the problems and problems of the mining edge. It is also due to the establishment of the Association that the mining society has been able to preserve its traditions for over a hundred years since then, that is to say, over a century, despite the fact that, unfortunately, the Trianon dictatorship has lost the mining character of our country overnight. After World War II, the Communist leadership set itself the goal of becoming a country of iron and steel, after a temporary development by the mid-1980s and by the end, the mining industry was already on the brink of collapse. During this trying period, it was especially important that the interests, values, traditions, and spiritual knowledge of the mining community remain. The Hungarian Mining Association, founded in 1992, helped not only to survive traditions, but also to create new conditions for mining research and to launch thermal programs with its professional knowledge. In 1993 the mining and electricity industry was established to ensure the survival of domestic mining in order to partly safeguard jobs, namely: the integration of mines and power plants, which ensured the survival of the mining industry and the preservation of jobs for a good ten years. [[12.00]] But it was also for the same purpose that the Saint Barbara Medal was established and accepted by society. We believed and confessed that mining would also be necessary under the new ownership, technical and technological conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President. As I mentioned in my speech as a keynote speaker during the debate on the amendment of the Mining Act, miners were able to unite not only in the depths of the earth but also in their spare time, create a self-help group, build a hospital for their sick and stagnant miners, take care of culture and the transfer of traditions. They were able to build cultural houses, create permanent ones, write songs and songs, which are still played with unbroken enthusiasm by mining orchestras today. Mining solarity and traditions are still alive today, despite the fact that in most of our countries, unfortunately, production has already been abandoned. It is our duty to cultivate our rich mining history traditions and roots and move them to the future, to the future where energy, especially energy independence, is increasingly appreciated, where we hope new prospects will be opened for the domestic mining community. Trusting in this and giving this faith, I wish you good luck on the occasion of tomorrow's holiday with a miner's greeting. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-12-03-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Péter Cseresnyés wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2018-12-03-25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Mining, this centuries-old domestic success sector, has been largely characterised by decline in recent decades. The government is convinced that the renewed, modern mining sector has a place in the structure of the strengthened Hungarian economy. The reduction of domestic energy import dependency is a primary national and energy strategy objective, for which the Hungarian government will take all necessary and justified steps. As one element of this, the government is committed to making greater, cost-effective use of domestic energy supplies, while also environmentally sound. Mining cannot be excluded from innovation and development. There is also a need for a great deal of adaptation in this area, with the greatest challenge of our time, in order to ensure the effectiveness of the fight against climate change. In order to achieve these objectives, an energy, mineral and stock management action plan was established this year. The measures related to the Action Plan are designed to improve the development and social image of the mining industry and to preserve mining traditions, so that we can manage the 21st century properly. the mining, earth science, environmental and economic challenges of the century. The Action Plan also set out the development of new methods, the testing and application of innovative solutions, which could lead to new routes in the field of domestic energy raw materials management. To this end, in the future, the government plans to provide funds to support modern basic research and sustainable mineral wealth management, to review the public burdens of mining companies and the system of management of state geological data. We hope that these steps will help further sustained expansion of domestic hydrocarbon production, which has started to grow in recent years. However, I also consider it necessary to mention that geothermal energy also plays an important role in ensuring our energy dependence. Research and exploitation of this can also not be imagined without the existing knowledge and experience of miners. However, mining means not only an industry, but also a professional community with a profound historical tradition that gives many fine examples of solidarity. Mr President, in his speech, it was said that our mining history traditions, our roots, must be nurtured and transferred to the future. Living as a miner meant not only the concrete cultivation of a profession, but also a way of life, a community approach, and a way of thinking to all those who became part of the mining society. For this reason, the Action Plan also sets out the role of preserving and informing the mining profession, the key tools of which are renewable mining museums. Of course, the most effective way to cultivate mining traditions is to ensure that the quality of life of this profession between us is adequately improved. Hungarian society must not lack the example of the integration, appreciation and community spirit of the Hungarian mining and geology society with great traditions and professional traditions, as well as the internationally recognised knowledge base and competences. The government appreciates the personal sacrifice of the miners, and in a manner worthy of it, all subsidies are granted by mining XXI. to develop and boost it in line with the needs of the century. [[To Dr. János Latorcai:]] I wish you good luck and a good holiday. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-12-03-26	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mónika Dunai, Member of the Fidesz Group, has also applied for a pre-meeting speech:, Strengthening families is our most important task! It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2018-12-03-27	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear Parliament, Our most important task is to strengthen families. We launched a national consultation on the protection of families four weeks ago. Since 2010, we have been asking the Hungarian people's opinion on important issues from time to time. We're getting feedback on the right direction in which we govern the country, giving us guidance for the future. The present questionnaire contains 10 questions, the main topic of which is the protection of families and the strengthening of families. This national consultation is necessary because we want to get to know the Hungarian people's views on this issue of fate, while at the same time establishing the basis for our future family support measures. This issue is particularly important because Europe is not in an easy situation. There are not enough children in any country to sustain their population. In Brussels, immigration and the exchange of people are the solutions. We disagree. We at Fidesz-KDNP see the solution in strengthening Hungarian families. That's the real deal. In recent years, we have worked to strengthen families to give parents and prospective parents as much support as possible to have children to raise children. Our priority is to support families more strongly than ever. This year, the family tax relief amounts to more than HUF 300 billion. This is more than 25 times what Balliberal governments have given as tax breaks in their last year. Twenty-five times! In 2010, there were only 12 billion. [[The intervention of Zsolt Gréczy.]] We agree with the aim of giving two-thirds protection to the budget subsidies for families with children, because remember that once again the left had abolished and abolished the family tax reduction. For them, it is not natural for us to reduce taxes on fathers and mothers who have children in addition to work and thus help them make a living. Let us not forget that during their governance, Gyurcsány and the socialists made life difficult for children by many restrictions. First, family tax relief was taken from single and two children, so thousands of forints were pulled out of the pockets of most families with children each month. From 2011 Fidesz restored the family tax relief and even extended it continuously. [[12.10]] We introduced the family tax system, the ged extra, and gave the three-year-old child back to the mothers. We support families with more money than ever before, and we help families with more children to reduce debt, mortgage debt and student loans. Together with the increase in the minimum wage, we have also raised the amount of ged and ged, as well as the amount of the baby care and childcare fee has increased significantly in recent years. We would very much like to continue strengthening families, which is why we consider it very important for as many people as possible to fill in and send back questionnaires either on paper or in electronic form. If we do so, we can send a strong message to Brussels; that the renewal of Europe is unthinkable without strengthening families, and that Hungary does not want immigration, does not want a change of population, wants to rely on its internal resources. This is also a strong message for Hungarian opposition politicians, who, in agreement with Brussels bureaucrats and Soros's people, mistakenly believe that immigration is a more effective way of dealing with the demographic situation than child birth. In Fidesz-KDNP, we fully support the national consultation on families, as it is an all-inclusive necessity today in Hungary to have more children. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-03-28	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-12-03-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. With regard to the consultation, I would like to say that we are very sorry that the opposition is attacking this consultation as well as previous consultations, and when they do, they are violating the millions of people who have participated in these last years. We hoped that at least family matters would be considered more important than their power considerations, but we had to be disappointed because they didn't think it was more important. What exactly are we thinking? Let us say that Congresswoman Bangóné was able to add so much that she dissipated the questionnaire, and Ferenc Gyurcsány proclaimed coffee of questionable value, and she expected works of art from her parishioners of true professionalism in the European sense, while her party partner wrote that she would rather spend on immigrants than on Hungarian families. Meanwhile, the TSA was wondering why child births should be forced at all. This is the opposition's attitude. And there is a precedent for these words, because the left has already broken a family support system once, it has been the result, and in the recent parliamentary campaign, they have declared war on tax incentives and on the home creation program. That is why this consultation is not only about deciding on future measures, but also about standing up for existing programmes, because we believe that the issue of families is above party policy considerations. This is also shown by the fact that over half a million people have already completed the questionnaire. On behalf of the government, I would like to thank all those who have already given their opinions and those who will. Dear House, There is one more question that I would like to mention, because we can't just walk past it without saying a word. In recent days, it has turned out that one of Jobbik's MPs bragged about hitting a woman, a Jewish woman. Now I would not like to recall the words he did so, because the Parliamentary record he has seen so much would not be able to bear it. I am bringing up this case because you thought for days that you could solve the case by giving up the deputy group leader and notary; that is what you thought for days. As well as I know the news, he has recently resigned his parliamentary mandate. In this regard, I would like to say that this matter is scandalous in itself, but it is just as much that the left-wing parties have been silent all along. While Jobbik is the same violent and anti-Semitic party as before, the left was silent, and this tells us everything about them; money and power are all that matters, and principles are nothing. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] Ágnes Vadai used to paint himself a black eye in Parliament, he lit a Szabó Timea lamp, a few weeks ago the MSZP and the PM stuck their mouths in protest against violence against women, there were Ágnes Kunhalmi, Timea Szabó and Zita Gurmai. In addition, opposition parties have repeatedly called for all kinds of international conventions on women's rights. And they didn't speak in this case. [[Zsolt Gréczy: It's not true! Don't you watch News TV?]] And let's ask ourselves, where were the lawyers, and where were the professional worries? Why didn't they shout wolf in this particular case? Where have you been? So far and no further. Sentences from the beginning? Where were the petitions? Where were the editorial statements and the trembling hand reports written in Brussels? They weren't anywhere. Not because the hatred of these actors towards the government overrided all of their existing and remaining principles. István Szávay's decision is the only decision he could make. We would also like to say that anyone who boasts so scandalously about beating a woman has no place in Hungarian public life. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea and Dr. Brenner Koloman intervene.]] At least we're so much further inside that we can see that cuteness and popularism and who knows what the real face of Jobbik is behind this mask. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-03-30	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Zsolt Becsó, Fidesz; Dóra Dúró, independent; Erik Fülöp, independent; Péter Ágh, Fidesz; János Fónagy, Fidesz; Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP; Péter Ungár, LMP; László György Lukács, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; László Hajdu, DK, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Parliament, Now it's 12:16. We're gonna start discussing immediate questions. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Simple questions...]] Dear Parliament, Congressman Lajos Rig wishes to ask the Prime Minister a question. It's an address. In answering this question, the Prime Minister appointed Miklós Kásler, Minister of Human Resources, who is competent and competent according to the subject. At the request of Minister Bence Rétvári, State Secretary will answer the question. It is for Congressman Lajos Rig.
u2018-12-03-31	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. It's a verbal question, not immediate, but thank you. On the evening of November 1st, in Bishop's Lady, the following two words are put out from the lamps burning at the fence of construction under a dubious EU project: law and justice. Why? Why did the people who lived there feel that the law and the truth were no longer among their loved ones? Last year, there was a big storm when they wanted to move psychiatric and addicts from the Castle of Nyirlak to the surrounding settlements. The locals then said that one of the fidesz oligarchs liked the baroque Tányi castle in the hug of the protected park, which is why it became so suddenly important to move patients out. By joining the population, he managed to prevent this professionally objectionable draft and the background castle dog. Now it's Bishop's turn, and he's in a similar situation. At the time, it was not the interests of the inhabitants, but rather the interests of their party and their self-interest. We know that there is huge EU support for the removal of psychiatric and addicts and, in addition to funding, a tax relief for the renovation of castles. It is also known that fidesz oligarchs encase hunting castles in a row. All of this began with the Starling Castle purchased by Ghaith Pharaon, and shortly thereafter the Castle of Tura became the interest of István Tiborcz. A similar fate can wait for the Széchenyi hunting castle in Rabashes, and Mészáros owns the hunting castle in Belmegyer. We got to the point where, as the great king moves to the castle, the little kings play the hunting castles themselves and devour the hunting companies. I'm starting to miss the crown. So I ask Mr. Secretary of State, how long are you going to run me over people? Why are they ignoring their interests for achieving their own goals? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[12.20]]
u2018-12-03-32	Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-12-03-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, There is a discreet charm when Jobbik, campaigning with Lajos Simicska's money, is oligarching here in Parliament. You have served your party fully to an oligarch, and your constituents have punished you for that. In principle, in the last two minutes, you have attacked a so-called ejection programme for people with different psychosocial disabilities or other disabilities. [[Lajos Rig: Psychiatric... Dr. László György Lukács: Originally it was a Soros plan!]] In other words, we move people from different large, concentrated housing homes into a smaller, more familylike environment, which gives them a better chance of living a full life. And you talked about everything but their interests. Your speech included everything but compassion for people who live in these residential homes, large, crowded residential homes, and who in the coming years or even decades will come into a smaller, more family-friendly, more supportive environment for their lives. Honourable Congressman, If you could see out of this better bubble and in relation to people with disabilities, you would not only have thought of oligarchism, you would have noticed which organizations the government has signed an agreement in which they fully support what you have attacked here. So who were you attacking? The National Association of the Autists, the National Association for the Protection of Interests of the People and Their Aiders with Mental Disabilities, the National Association of the Hungarian Blinds and Sensitives [[Dr. László György Lukács: None of his business! In psychiatric facilities, they're blind and weak-sighted...]] , the National Association of Associations of Limited Movements, the National Association of Deafs and Hearers, and the National Association of the deaf blinds. After all, the program that we are implementing is the ejections that are now under way and which you have just attacked here, which represent exactly the direction of a written agreement with these organisations. I ask that at least the Jobbik show some compassion for our disabled fellow citizens. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-03-34	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Zsolt Molnár, from the MSZP Group, wishes to ask the Minister responsible for innovation and technology:. What will be the fate of the road to death? It's an address. Mr Zsolt Molnár has the floor.
u2018-12-03-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Mr. Secretary. Almost two years ago, we addressed more interpellation and questions to the then competent minister about the fatal accidents on Route 81. Mr. Minister has strongly rejected all of our speeches; I believe that the Fidesz MEP appointed the Commissioner for Road Affairs also took action, since he was a Fidesz Member at the time. I hope you see the problem differently. One of the most important roads of Fejér county is road 81 in terms of passenger and freight traffic; two-track road, which connects Székesfehérvár and Győr. Many foreign migrant workers working in Austria also choose this route. The huge traffic, especially the truck traffic, is extremely dangerous, it is also called a fish road, like many other roads in the country. Even before the 2014 parliamentary elections, from the second constituency of Fejér county, the former and current Member of Parliament promised to extend the route 81 to four long overdue lanes. Dear Minister, In the current state of road 81, it hinders the economic development of the region, impairs the quality of life of its inhabitants, impairs the market opportunities of the entrepreneurs established here, and undermines the potential of tourism, one of the important values of the region. The residents of the settlements along the road are finding it increasingly difficult to reach their workplaces, health facilities, and school. The above was also mentioned in the forum organised by the Fejér County Chamber of Commerce and Industry on 10 February 2015 and in the public safety forum of the Chamber on 22 March 2016 in the comments of entrepreneurs, mayors and tourism professionals. I ask the Minister whether he maintains the government's position at the time, whether the expansion of road 81 to four lanes has really been removed from the agenda. What are the plans of the Government of Hungary for the future of the way of death? Thank you very much.
u2018-12-03-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés will answer the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-12-03-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government intends to promote the competitiveness and economic development of the country and the countryside and improve road safety by building as many four lanes as possible. The priority policy objective is to fast-track cities with county rights on two-track main roads. The primary task is to connect settlements and areas that are still considered unfit from this point of view to the circulation of transport. The main road 81 passes through two Hungarian regions, Central Transdanubia and Western Transdanubia, which are among the most favourable regions of the country in terms of the extent of the motorway network. It can be seen that a significant part of the resources available for motorway development must be used primarily by the government in regions that are not yet available. Therefore, the four-banding of Highway 81 is not currently included in the planned investments until 2022. At the same time, it should be mentioned that this year, within the framework of the Hungarian-funded complex road renovation programme, the renovation of the Mór and County border section of main road 81 has been completed. In order to increase the M1 motorway twice by three lanes, the study under preparation also covers the possibilities for road safety development of network elements, including main road 81, which can be used as a detour during the renewal of the highway. As a result of the proposed accident prevention measures, the road safety situation is expected to improve. With regard to the renewal of road section 8126, I can inform you that the public procurement procedures for the implementation of this section have been unsuccessful. We are currently working on establishing the conditions for another successful display by reviewing the technical content of the investment. Hopefully, it will be possible to conclude the contract as early as next year and then start the work. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-03-38	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, László Hajdu, representative of the Democratic Coalition, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior:. Why is he not responsible after two years for the Metro accident on Butterfly Street? It's an address. Mr László Hajdu has the floor.
u2018-12-03-39	Mr President, Mr. Secretary. In Budapest in December 2016 Hungary was the only metro accident after the change of regime in which several people were injured. According to official information, 15 people were injured, several of them were severely injured, when one train ran into the other from behind at the metro stop on Pillangó Street, so they caught up with each other. It's been almost two years, but according to the police response to the RTL Club news, no suspects have yet been identified. So two years of investigation wasn't enough to listen at all to someone who might later turn out to be responsible. There has been a speed limit in the affected section since then, and the metro can't speed up to this day at more than 30 kilometers. So to this day, we do not know whether that subway section is safe. So I'm asking the Secretary of State why the police didn't find the people responsible for the accident during nearly two years of investigation. Have you even determined that there's been a human failure? If there was no human error, there could obviously be a technical error. What did the police find out which caused the accident? If the accident was caused by a technical error, is it to be understood that the Budapest people are still in danger on these trains? And I'm asking if the person responsible will ever be named in this case. What's the reason for your silence? Budapesters have the right to know whether they are in a bad situation, what their safety is like on the Hungarian metro in the capital.
u2018-12-03-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Károly Kontra will answer the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-12-03-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Security is the most important Community value today, and road safety is also an important part of it. This includes, inter alia, the prevention of traffic accidents and the investigation of accidents that have already occurred. In the context of your questioning the metro accident on Butterfly Street, the investigation is under increased prosecutor's supervision for reckless endangerment of mass casualties. The investigating authority provides a very wide range of evidence: 105 witnesses were interviewed, several attempts were carried out, judicial chemists and judicial railway safety and safety equipment experts were appointed during the procedure. [[12.30]] On 17 September 2018, the Public Prosecutor's Office decided to carry out further investigations, which are currently under way. Information to the public may be provided in accordance with the rules of the Law on Criminal Procedure following the completion of the investigation. I ask you, honourable Member, that, if you care about the safety of the people of Budapest, as you have repeatedly mentioned in your question, you should not put pressure on the authorities acting, wait for the procedure to be completed, on which you will be informed. In parallel with the police investigation, the safety organisation investigated the case and informed the public in its report. The organisation has made recommendations to the operator so that no accident can occur again in similar favourable weather conditions. I would like to point out both the report and the recommendations that have been available since 2017 on the road safety organisation's website. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, The aim of the authorities is to ensure that people using public transport can travel as safely as possible and that in the future similar cases and similar accidents are not possible, but that in the future the people of Budapest and the guests visiting Budapest will be able to travel without accidents. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-12-03-42	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, would you like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: It's an address. Congressman Antal Csárdi has the floor.
u2018-12-03-43	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Minister, During the mayorship of Antal Rogán, in 2012, the V. district sold the downtown Bastya street plot on its own proposal, which is one of the last green areas in the southern city. The LMP and the residents of the area protested against this, and as a result of this decision, the children in midtown kindergarten lost the playground they used this year. Today, the situation is that they cannot use this site at all. They lost a playground, lost a recreation area, lost an area where they could be raised and taught by developmental pedagogical methods. Of course, the current administration of the district is trying to save things without the obvious responsibility of Minister Rogán, which is not a simple task. According to the current state of affairs, the property sold for 400 million at the time can now only be recovered for multiples of that price at the expense of the district, with significant loss of assets, if any. Dear Minister, How do you consider the achievement of kindergarten educational goals to be affected by the loss of a playground in a kindergarten? What does the Ministry, the parking lot, or the health of the children think is more important? And who takes the professional and financial responsibility in this matter? Since Antal Rogán, who is demonstrably responsible for the situation, is also a member of the government with you, do you not think that the government should apologize to parents with small children in downtown for risking the playground of the kindergarten and through it the unbroken development of children, and not least their right to a healthy environment? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2018-12-03-44	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-12-03-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In your party, there's a national-known body called the ethics committee. [[Péter Ungár: We know him!]] We've all heard about this board. I think that's where you're going to land the question that you're proposing here. You're the 144/2012. A decision on the exploitation function of Bástya utca plot was adopted on 28 June 2006 and accepted by your party partner Péter Árvai, representative of LMP in the municipality. [[Péter Ungár: Not a member! Car-Cake is pointing towards Olivio: They have it!]] So I trust that the Ethics Committee will investigate this and find out who is right on this issue. In-house justice will be done by the Ethics Committee. [[Péter Ungár: PM!]] As far as the facts are concerned, honourable Member, whether locally or nationally, you can see that your municipal representative probably supported this because, near the kindergarten, the municipality created two playgrounds, one in Fővám tér and one in the Károlyi garden. In the Serbian street, until the legal situation of the court was resolved, a playground was set up, with a bathroom and toilet, and the Bastya Street kindergarten has a gym. So this is how they provide physical education, development and free air or closed space exercise for the kindergarten children who go there. The government is also trying to support the kindergartens nationwide, in next year's budget, which you have not supported, with HUF 4.6 billion more to support the maintenance of kindergartens than this year. This means that the specific amount to support kindergartens can grow from HUF 81 700 to HUF 97 400. 100 billion forints is what we intend to develop in these years for the development of kindergartens and nursery schools, and since 2010, we have increased the number of preschool seats by 9,000, precisely so that all families can keep their children safe in kindergartens. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-12-03-46	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Before continuing the work, I would like to inform Congressman Antal Csárdi that the house rules are 20. Pursuant to Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure, the President of the sitting shall have the opportunity to give the floor in relation to personal concerns following the conclusion of the agenda. Dear Parliament, Congressman János Pócs, representative of Fidesz... [[For signal:]] I'm sorry. Please understand, two cards have been put together by the chairman of the meeting. Dear Parliament, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources: "Do fathers not matter to the government? It's an address. Congressman Cake Olivio has the floor.
u2018-12-03-47	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In connection with student loan discounts introduced by the Government, a number of complaints were received by László Székely Ombudsman, which were also examined by the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. In addition, the National Conference of Students' Local Governments indicated that the government would reconsider the conditions for the waiver of student loans. The problem is that the student loan waiver only applies to mothers, fathers do not receive any benefits, even if only the father has student loans in the family. According to the Ombudsman's report, if a father has a debt in the family, it is the same burden as a mother's. The Commissioner also raises the possibility of giving a discount to men who are raising their children alone. Dear Secretary of State, The government regularly emphasizes how important families are to him, but now it gives us a discount that does not treat families as families. The Ministry informed us that despite the Ombudsman's opinion, they would not change the rules and would continue to discriminate against fathers. And that makes the difference between family and family. They do so by paying particular attention to the importance of fathers in the current national consultation. There is one question: do you agree that the child has the right to mother and father? Then I'll ask you, where's the father? Here's my question. Why does the government discriminate against fathers? Why don't you treat families as families when you decide on a discount? And why do they not accept the position of the Ombudsman for Fundamental Rights and change the regulation? Thank you for your answer.
u2018-12-03-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-12-03-49	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, When, in the eyes of the opposition, the government is not anti-female, it is anti-male, when it is not anti-mother, it is anti-father, I see from their speeches in recent years. Honourable Congressman, We have also stated in the Fundamental Law that there are advantages that the government would like to offer to women, mothers. This is positive discrimination enshrined in the Fundamental Law, and in this case too, we are dealing with one, because it is obvious for mothers that having children involves a lot more sacrifice, both physically and in terms of career progress. That is why the government has decided to give certain benefits specifically to women, especially mothers, or grandmothers, where appropriate. This was the case for the Women 40, which was unanimously not supported by the group of opposition groups. No one voted for this on behalf of the opposition. We also specifically assured women that they could retire from 40 years of work or 40 years of work after all child rearing and work with such a discount. Yes, our goal is similar to that of women 40, even when we give an extra discount on student loans to mothers. Luckily, they live with this, as 1504 have already asked for the suspension of the repayment, 531 for the 50 percent remission, and 336 for the full remission. [[12.40]] This means that we were able to support mothers with 796 million forints, so we were able to support mothers with almost 800 million forints, and we were able to give them a further discount. This does not mean, of course, that fathers do not get a discount in many areas of life. I wonder if, soon, within weeks, we will be talking about a father's leave of leave from five to eight days after the first child, and the fathers will be given additional benefits, whether you will vote here in Parliament, or not in weeks. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-12-03-50	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, János Pócs, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. How is the use of the resources of the call EFOP 4.1.3.-17, how much renovations have been completed so far, and how much is still to be used? It's an address. Mr János Pócs has the floor.
u2018-12-03-51	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Recently, a ceremony was held in several educational institutions in the Jászberény district. We have seen that there was a reason to be pleased, because thanks to the application of EFOP 4.1.3.-17, the infrastructure development of the public educational institutions for learning, a total value of HUF 450 million, many schools have been renewed. So far, the settlements involved in school development are Jászboldogháza in Jászság, Jászárokszállás, Jászszentandrás, Jászkisér and Jászberény. I would like to highlight the Lehel High School in Jászberény, where on 20 November we held the solemn inauguration of the development. The project, Lehel Vező High School's infrastructure development, received a grant of HUF 142.61 million. Within the framework of the project, the classrooms, educational halls and the corridors and road users used to carry out educational and educational activities have been renovated. Thanks to the energy modernisation, the electrical system of the two wing of the school has been renewed. Within the framework of the project, physical and chemical educational equipment and classroom furniture were also purchased. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my thanks to the government, both for the Yassians and for myself, because, in recent years, significant improvements have been and will be made with the help of the government. We built roads, built a new sewer network, renovated part of the drinking water network, developed St. Elizabeth's Hospital in Jászberény, created a number of jobs, handed over a sports hall and an ice rink. We did all this by taking over the municipalities [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Credit accumulated before 2010. We know that the most valuable thing in every development is about children, so I respectfully ask the Secretary of State how she stands with the resources of EFOP 4.1.3. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] may start and end at what value. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-12-03-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary Zsuzsanna Vitalyos, who will answer. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2018-12-03-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In your question to Minister Miklós Kásler, allow me, Congressman, to give the following answer. The government is committed to going to the most modern schools, both students and educators, where all of them are under the 21st century. The conditions for modern, up-to-date education and education, where classrooms, gymnasiums, schools are well-equipped, and learning is experiential. To this end, the government is using both domestic and significant EU resources to develop public education institutions. The EFOP 4.1.3 scheme referred to in its question is just one of the calls for the modernisation of public education institutions that we use for the development of schools. Overall, over HUF 125 billion is available for this purpose in the period 2014-2020. The constructions provide both public and non-state institution-holders with the opportunity to implement their development plans, with more than 600 schools being modernised this year and over the next three years. A total of 437 proposals under this scheme were awarded a total of HUF 29.27 bn. Of these, 115 institutions were renovated this year worth HUF 7.86 billion. The construction works and the simultaneous completion of buildings are being carried out on an ongoing basis. This year, a further 265 projects are expected to be successfully completed using an additional HUF 16.87 billion source. 57 projects will be completed in 2019, with HUF 4.54 billion at the disposal of the beneficiaries. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] From the above, too, I think it is clear that the government has unfortunately used EU funds in recent decades [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] achieves unprecedented, significant improvements in order to make the system of public education as effective as possible. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-12-03-54	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. Why are the Agricultural Ministry being terminated? It's an address. Mr Zoltán Magyar has the floor.
u2018-12-03-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! I'm calling Mr. Secretary of State for a guessing game. How long do you think it would take for the actors of the domestic agriculture to notice if their own wallet was destroyed? I asked a number of people working in agriculture the same question, and the answers showed quite a difference, but everyone agreed that it would be months before anyone noticed that your ministry no longer exists. This guessing has been given a special topicality, since last week the House received a bill that has already added to the brutal powers of the Chamber of Agriculture. In addition to mandatory membership fees, the Chamber also disperses over billions of EU and domestic resources annually, while not providing real support to most farmers for farming. I'm not saying this, but everyone involved in this area may have had a lot of complaints. After all, I think we should expect transparent operation. Instead, what do we see? People suspected of being embezzled by various embezzlements have become a place of escape of the Chamber of Agriculture, suspicious IT developments have been reported, and an extremely scandalous chamber election, which may then be destroyed by the court. Instead of tidying up, what did you do? The legislative amendment we have learned in recent weeks will further increase the rights of the Chamber. We believe that the role of local farmers in the control of land traffic needs to be strengthened. That's not the problem. It is also a fact that the Land Traffic Act requires serious amendments. However, these amendments should not include that this Chamber, on which I have already listed the negatives, could continue to expand and, in practice, reduce the proportion of professional decisions in the agricultural purse, since let's face it, that we can usually only encounter actions that are politically motivated. After all this, all I have to ask the Secretary of State is when they want to free the Chamber of Agriculture. She could use it. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-12-03-56	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Farkas, Deputy Minister. Here you go, Deputy Minister.
u2018-12-03-57	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to clarify one thing: I don't have my own agricultural purse. It is true that he addressed it to the Minister, but he thought that he might be addressing this question to me now. [[Hungarian Zoltán: Perhaps it is understandable!]] I work specifically for people living in the countryside and people living in agriculture, but the Minister of Agriculture is responsible for the agricultural policy of the Government, agri-rural development, food chain monitoring, food industry, forestry, agriculture, fisheries, real estate, environmental protection, nature conservation, mapping, wildlife management. If you consider any of these areas irrelevant, you will not just issue a pathetic certificate about yourself. [[Peter Ungár: Alas, alas, alas!]] He also ignores the work of people who work in agriculture, for example, to have food on his table for you and for all of us here. [[12.50]] It must be unpleasant for you to know that the outstanding majority of the farmers who took part in the last election of the Chamber of Agriculture a year ago voted alongside the list of Magos, but I warned you not to blame the voters for all this. Instead, I suggest that you try to act as a responsible representative in the interests of the Hungarian agriculture. You could start by not using your amendment proposals to fool around. [[Zoltán Magyar: I don't do that.]] It's right here in front of me, I can prove what it's like, I could say it's frivolously subtle: it's made frivolous proposals to the government. I think that we should ignore these thoughts, and perhaps we should talk about how to help the host world, put it in position, prepare it. However, while, as in the past week, it can only be used for works that can be called very forcedly, it should be more like a guessing game whether farmers know at all that you are a Member of Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-03-58	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology: When has Albertirsa been relieved of the traffic of 200 trucks per day? It's an address. Congressman Lajos Korózs has the floor.
u2018-12-03-59	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The people of Albertirsa, Pest County, have to face more than a decade of problems every day. There's a lot of freight going on downtown. The local Aquarius company group is talking about one of the city's largest and most important employers, and it has to drive its trucks through the city, given that Route 4 is not an option for them. There is only one reason for this problem: in 2010 hours, the government refuses to provide any resources to build a southern bypass road. As far as I know, it is about 10-11 kilometers away, and this is all the more necessary, as more than 200 trucks can travel to Budapest every day, avoiding the city's interior. The investment would require no more than HUF 2-3 billion. This was also discussed several times with the wallet. I recall that in 2010, Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, replied in response to a parliamentary hearing that he was trying to include it in the development plans. Despite the promises, the construction just didn't want to start. By 2018, the problem continued to deteriorate. It is certainly well known to you that some two weeks ago a truck carrying mineral water ran into a family house, and it was only by luck that there was no serious problem, although the material damage was quite great. That is why I am asking Mr Secretary of State what they are doing to ensure that this southern bypass road is built. If you do not wish to do anything, be kind enough to tell me why you do not do this; if so, tell me when you will start your investment. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-03-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés will answer the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-12-03-61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Since 2010, the Hungarian road network has been and continues to progress on an unprecedented scale, unlike your time, when almost a penny has not been spent on the lower roads, and it can even be said that the main roads have been neglected in many cases. That's why it's weird when an MSZP congressman asks the current government for something. [[Lajos Korózs: I was just asking.]] But back to the development of the road network: the projects carried out are integrated into the Government Decision on the coordination and implementation of infrastructure investments related to Hungary's short- and medium-term road development by 2022. The main areas of road development are, on the one hand, the restoration of sub-standard roads neglected for many decades, as I mentioned earlier, and which is also a priority in the programme of Hungarian villages, on the other hand, the expansion of the motorway network and the development of international connections capable of improving road safety and competitiveness at regional level. In view of these strategic priorities, the decision in question does not currently include the implementation of the southern bypass section of Albertirsa, which does not mean that it will not be implemented in the near or far future. Mr President, you may also be aware that the priority objective of government-supported transport investments is to fast-track cities with county rights currently available on two-track main roads. For example, Szolnok is the city whose connection must be resolved. The planned transfers of the two Pest county sections to the end of 2019 and early 2020 will also be expected to substantially improve the transport and quality of life of the Albanians. The head of your question, that the government is expressly neglecting the city of Albertirsa and ignoring the inhabitants of the city, I would strongly reject it. Over the past few years, hundreds of millions of HUF have been able to invest in the city with government support. These include social assistance, construction of a sports hall, energy modernisation, sidewalk construction, renovation of a doctor's office. So the government will take care of the Albertirsai and will also focus on road development and solving the problem later on. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-03-62	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Imre László, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Why should their own positive initiative be blown? It's an address. Congressman Imre László has the floor.
u2018-12-03-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. According to mythology, what the King of the Frigs Midas touched has turned to gold. Unfortunately, I can't tell you this about your government, see the story of the CEU. Colon cancer is one of the most insidious cancers. When the patient's complaints come to the doctor, there is virtually little hope of survival. Every year, nearly 5,000 victims of this murderous disease are taken in our country. I am extremely pleased that this screening test is started, absolutely necessary and justified. But what's behind it is less. We know that this screening is biphasic, first the general practitioners will filter out the suspects of colon cancer, then the second phase of the hospital will have instrumental tests. However, GPs take part on the basis of voluntary applications, and there is no concept of what is happening to those who do not wish to take on this additional task. Hospitals are already overloaded, the profession has protested before, there are few gastroenterologists, few instruments, and accordingly long waiting lists are formed in normal circumstances. So I ask Mr. Secretary of State: how many GPs have agreed to participate in the screening program? Based on this, what percentage of the population does not reach the first phase of the screening study? How do you intend to solve the current problem of patient care so that hospitals can carry out additional tasks under the screening programme? I look forward to your reply. Thank you. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-12-03-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-12-03-65	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think that both you and we agree that reducing malignant cancer deaths is a very important national goal. This is why it was important to have women aged between 45 and 65 years of free breast screening every two years, and therefore it is important to have recently introduced a cervical screening study involving women aged between 25 and 65 years and, where appropriate, repeated every three years, which can also play an important role in reducing cancer deaths and preventing the development of the disease. This comes in third, because you said there was a very serious cause of death in the colon screening program. So far, 1894 GPs have started their accredited training course, so they have applied to be suitable for the first phase of this national screening program, mentioned by you. Within the framework of the National Anticancer Programme, we would like to extend colon screening nationally from the second half of 2019. A system of laboratories involved in colon screening has been organised, which can perform colonoscopy tests. Tool development was also carried out for 38 labs and 28 colonoscopy towers and 12 washing machines were purchased. [[13.00]] And when the national screening itself starts, expanding the earlier ones, because there have been pre-screening programs in counties, then, of course, a national communication campaign will also be launched to ensure that everyone participates in these screenings as much as possible. After all, there is a free screening program with only 40-50 percent display rate. We hope that they will grow, and so many of us will be able to prevent their later illness. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-12-03-66	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance:. Will the government increase the pension for 2019 with the expected inflation rate? It's an address. By answering this question, Prime Minister Miklós Kásler, who is competent and competent on the subject, has appointed the Minister of Human Resources. At the request of Minister Bence Rétvári, State Secretary, will answer the question. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor. I would like to thank you for your cooperation, and I would like to present this meeting to Vice President Lezsák. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2018-12-03-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm sorry, I don't know if I have to wait for the change. [[For signal:]] It's been a long time. Dear Secretary of State, In the autumn, Prime Minister said that the government is pursuing a policy that preserves the value of pensions and even seeks to raise pensions. Unfortunately, the overall situation of pensioners society is deteriorating, on the one hand, because there is a growing gap between them and active workers. While wages are rising between 8 and 12 percent, the change in pensions between 1 and 2 percent is only after catching up. On the other hand, because the inflation-following pension increase does not take into account the pensioner consumer basket. It is unacceptable that pensioners are almost completely excluded from the benefits of economic growth, most of all being dribbled with crumbs. In fact, this year they received a one-time pension premium of HUF 18,000, but this amount is not included in their pension. And if the GDP is not above 3.5 percent in 2018, pensioners can forget this money. However, the next year will be more difficult for them, as inflation is expected to be higher than in previous years and is projected to exceed 3 per cent. Despite this, the government has planned a 2.7 percent pension increase. We find it unacceptable that the increase in pensions should be lower than the rate of inflation, that the government should be able to use the money due to pensioners all year round at interest rate. Mr State Secretary, first of all, I ask whether the government is willing to raise the 2019 pension with the expected inflation rate or insists on a 2.7 percent increase. My second question is when a catch-up programme will be launched so that the wage scissors between pensions and active workers' salaries will not expand or the scissors will not grow between the low and the higher pensions. I would be honored to have your answer.
u2018-12-03-68	Thank you, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck. I respectfully welcome my fellow Members and give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2018-12-03-69	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, In 2010, we agreed, and we were able to do so by far, to protect the value of pensions, the value of the purchase, that the pension would not be worth less from one year to the next. In 2010, this was another courageous commitment, and it may not seem like it now, but it was then, because pensioners just got over taking a month's pension from them, and they said that they were doing it so that they wouldn't have to take another month's pension from them. We remember this from 2008-2009. Compared to this, we've created a system in which pensioners can't go wrong, but they can benefit from a number of reasons. As a result, although about 28 percent of pensions have been increased in recent years, but since the rate of pension increases has often been higher than real inflation, the difference part has therefore remained there year after year for pensioners, and the purchasing value of pensions is therefore now 10 percent higher than it was in 2010. If it were the other way round and inflation were higher, pension supplements would be granted to pensioners, as has already been done. In November, from January onwards, they will receive the difference by which inflation was higher than planned in that year. So there's no way pensioners can get hurt. They will either receive more if the planned inflation is higher than the actual one, or in November they will receive the amount retroactively for each month and for 12 months, and, of course, this surplus will already be included in their next year's pension. You have not yet been able to hit inflation, when you were talking about it, you said again this year that the figures will not work, pensions have increased by 3 percent, the general consumer price index has increased by 2.8 percent, but pension inflation has been lower, 2.7 percent. Last year, they said, like this year, he's gonna be taller. It seems that at the beginning of December, too, they were wrong, and we trust that pensioners will have a small surplus. However, the current economy has been able to produce that result. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] that the elderly could also receive a pension premium, and that the government's management could already receive several Elizabeth vouchers. We will continue our efforts for pensioners [[The president's ringing again.]] to create security. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-12-03-70	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Minister:. Why is the government doing business with suspects of fraud connected with Metro 4? It's an address. Congressman Bence of Turdai has the floor.
u2018-12-03-71	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. When the OLAF report was published, Fidesz referred to metro 4 as the biggest corruption scandal of all time and promised ruthless action. Then a year passed, and the big investigation came to the point of Péter Medgyessy. There are no other suspects, companies, parties, business players; there is nothing. Speech silence, that's for sure. Benedek Jávor, MEP of Dialogue, discovered that two Strabag-lobbyists, Zoltán Aczél and his father-in-law Géza Terner played a key role behind the companies involved in the delivery of bribes. And they've been part of Fidesz's corruption network since 2010. Aczél and Terner dealt with Lajos Simicska, who was then the main oligarch of Fidesz, interested in Garancsi's Roman-coastal luxury investment, appeared in the area of scandalous trading houses, and acquired ownership through a Danish company in Belfry, which soared in NER, thus receiving several billion-dollar state orders along with Strabag. You can see that the service they can provide has a demand in Fidesz, and this service is being repaid. The flogging of former governments, the accountability commissioners and the window trials are only used to cover up the fact that Fidesz has not only centralised but has raised corruption to the state level. In the most trusted and darkest transactions of NER, Aczél and Terner were used, from the residency bond business to the trading houses. In those corruption machinations supervised by Antal Rogán and Péter Szijjártó, whose sole and sole purpose was to recapitalisation the narrowest circles of Fidesz. In return, Fidesz is even skimming metro 4's case just to protect its corruption service providers. Mr. Secretary. Why is the party state doing business with the suspects of the 4th metro scandal? Why are the lobbyists of Strabag, Zoltán Aczél and Géza Terner untouchable? I look forward to your reply. [[A round of applause for DK and Dialogue.]]
u2018-12-03-72	Thank you, Secretary of State Bence Tordai, Congressman. I give the floor to State Secretary Balázs Orbán.
u2018-12-03-73	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I have noticed that here we have seen a specific parliamentary genre in the form of an oral question, because we are in the category of science fiction. As a representative of the Dialogue, you actually acted as an avatar of the MSZP. 'Cause, you know, there's this very famous, popular foreign film where people control big blue creatures. In fact, what happened here was that when you asked this question, you were actually controlled by the MSZPs in the background by Joystick because what we say is true, and what is true in the OLAF report is that the 4th metro scandal is the biggest corruption case of all time. In total, according to OLAF, HUF 167 billion was lost, and according to the report it is quite clear that the responsibility lies with the Gyurcsány government, the Bajnai government and the socialists. Obviously, if they come up with this question, everyone laughs at them. Therefore, you must act as the Avatar of the MSZP and ask these questions. I understand this thing, and it's probably politically profitable for you, just as you started in the previous elections together, you'll be running together in the next elections. So I get it, it just doesn't really get us any closer to finding a solution. It is also the case in this case, as we have said before, that there is a criminal proceeding. We think this is an extremely serious problem. All the government could do in this case was to support the work of the authorities on the one hand and, on the other, to allow me to pull this off, to finish the investment. So we managed to complete the investment that we hadn't made for decades before, and what the former mayor, the socialists, and the free democrats, managed to bring to the sand along the cases previously mentioned. By the way, since 2010 he has spent 2100 billion on Budapest development, of which 700 billion have been spent on transport development. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[13.10]]
u2018-12-03-74	Thank you, Mr. Balázs Orbán State Secretary. Dear Parliament, György Hubay, a representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Defence: "Did the leaking politician assess the damage he can do to a soldier and his family? It's an address. Congressman György Hubay has the floor.
u2018-12-03-75	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Weeks have passed since the co-chair of the LMP, Márta Demeter, who is also Vice-President of the Defence and Police Commission, ran through the personality rights of a soldier and his family serving abroad. Putting his mind to the risks of disclosure of non-public military data, without thinking about sacrificing a two-year-old girl in order to launch a lying, embarrassing campaign against the Prime Minister's daughter as well. She was so blinded by the political gain for her own good that she did not think how unpleasant this action could be for a young child and his family who had nothing to do but went to visit his father in the service of his country. Dear Secretary of State, A Hungarian youth in military service also knew that he could not share military information with outsiders; he was also obliged to do so by oath. Unlike a woman representing herself, who considers herself to be a defence specialist, she is not aware of the most basic obligations. It is clear to all of us what a serious security risk there is to disclose the name of the two - year - old child of a soldier on a foreign mission, revealing himself and his entire family. How can this man then fight in even more serious conflict zones if he has the right to be blackmailed with his family all the time, for an irresponsible Hungarian politician has announced the name of his child in the press? The Congresswoman made a huge mistake using children to discredit the Prime Minister, but she has not had the courage to stand up in public and apologize to the soldier and his family. Dear Secretary of State, So I ask you, knowing how sensitive we are talking about data and how important it is in a war zone [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Protecting the data of a serving soldier, the question arises - the leaks of the congresswoman [[The president's ringing again.]] what security risks they pose to the soldier and his family, and I ask if he can still perform full service abroad. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-03-76	With all due respect, I would like to ask Mr Hubay and my fellow Members not to put me in such a difficult position so that I have to put myself on the subject, but it has gone significantly beyond the time limit, and I am obliged to do so by the house rules. I give the floor to Secretary of State Németh.
u2018-12-03-77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, On four continents, in 14 countries, the Hungarian Defence Forces carry out 23 missions. These missions are the European Union, NATO or the UN, or, if you look at Iraq, they are working in an informal system of allies to restore peace in areas where there was war, where civil war took place, and the Hungarian soldiers in these missions are serving their country according to their oath, serving their country at the cost of their lives, enforcing Hungarian interests and participating in the peace process. Well, these hot spots, because most of the time Hungarian soldiers have to endure a war situation, but the changed security environment here makes clear the hybrid and cyber combat manners for everyone, for the simple man and for all soldiers how much the information has value, and for the personal information that a soldier's name or family's situation means. This information belongs to the secret category, and this is not a coincidence, as it protects the mission itself, the success of the mission and the soldiers themselves and the family of the soldiers themselves. In this situation, Márta Demeter provided non-public military data on a Hungarian soldier, a Hungarian soldier and his family in a UN mission. I believe that Márta Demeter was guilty of violating this principle of secrecy, and that his actions, through which he leaked and even falsified data, should not be without consequences. Thank you very much, Congressman. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-03-78	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Tibor Bana, a representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture:, Why are not the watch's aspects in the Guard? It's an address. Congressman Tibor Bana has the floor.
u2018-12-03-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, As I promised during my campaign, I would also like to be the voice and advocate of the Guard. Over the past few years, I have received several critical requests, with the National Park of Őrség again in the crosshairs. More people have resented that employees who do not or only partially know local peculiarities are often more of a barrier to the development of the Guard than a source of it. I must say, Mr Secretary of State, that the problems which have been mentioned several times in my previous speeches suggest that the management of the National Park of Őrség is not, to put it mildly, an example of efficiency. A recurring problem is that in one half of the year people with forest areas in the National Park can hardly set foot in their own property, since there is a slaughter ban in place between 31 March and 1 September, and this is a serious problem for families with firewood when preparing winter fires. However, this period is not only a problem for forest owners, but also a negative impact on the already high prices and supply side of the firewood market. I ask the honourable Secretary of State why in the year of families Hungarian families are not the primary ones, why the owners are banned for almost half a year from their own forest. Make no mistake, it is also very important for me to protect the Guard's environment, but I think that those living there who, for centuries and now, treasure the land they have received from their ancestors, with the greatest attention and concern for their lands and forests. I encourage the National Park of Őrség to focus on areas transferred to the property of Austrian citizens, where the former agricultural traditions, such as the belt parcel, are completely opposed to large-scale chemical farming, which is harmful to humans and nature, and forest farms where logging has reached industrial proportions, the vast majority of which are sold in the territory of the Austrian State. Dear Secretary of State, What meaningful steps does the government plan to take to give priority to the interests of the guards living in their homeland? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-12-03-80	Thank you, Congressman Tibor Bana. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Farkas.
u2018-12-03-81	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, In the area of the Őrség National Park Board, as well as in all other protected natural areas in Hungary, the Nature Protection Act regulates the possible duration of logging. In addition to legislation, the Board of Directors shall neither apply nor apply any restrictions. The constructive cooperation in the field is also demonstrated by the fact that the Management Board supports the development of expertise for local people by organising regular professional courses, and during their own forestry, they are in daily working relationship with nearly 60 private persons and forest owners. The Board selects its staff from among the inhabitants of the national park, who are also active members of the local communities. The Board of Directors shall acquire off-road vehicles from the EU tender support, following a procurement procedure, and the use of motor vehicles shall be governed by two director's instructions on vehicle regulations and access to work. The rules allow private use of service vehicles on the basis of prior written permission from the Director or Deputy Directors, and the Management Board shall bill the user and the worker shall reimburse the remuneration. [[13.20]] Dear fellow Member, In relation to work, the regulation also allows for group passenger transport, i.e. workers' access to work by means of a service vehicle, within an organised framework, on pre-defined routes. The management and activities of the Őrség National Park Directorate are subject to an ongoing audit by the Court of Auditors. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The efficiency of the organisation is characterised by the fact that it manages the smallest of the ten national park directorates, but all the legislation required it to do so. [[The president's ringing again.]] fully and properly comply. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-03-82	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Farkas. Dear Parliament, Sándor Szabó, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance:. The working conditions before World War II are waiting for the workers next year! It's an address. Mr Sándor Szabó has the floor.
u2018-12-03-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Lajos Kósa created again, not for the first time, although he has now called on Kristóf Szatmáry. On an early winter morning, they woke up to see how good it would be to change the Code of Work, including the rules of working hours. Well, that did not cause undivided success among workers, who simply consider this proposal to be anti-family, inhuman, vile, and eviscerating, and we could simply say that it is a slave law. It is not the first time that Fidesz has been hiding behind an individual amendment proposal to eviscerate workers and support capitalists, foreign multinationals. The proposal concerns the fact that for three years doctors, nurses, cooks, bakers and so on I could list the professions and then receive their overtime at the end of the third year, and the proposal intends to increase their overtime significantly to 400 hours. Only if my fellow Member were to move among the workers, he would know precisely that this is already the practice, so the workers are working 400 hours and over, and if this is the standard, this will be the basis, then the workers will be working overtime for 6-8 hours, completely separated from their family members. Once again, we find out who is on the capitalists' side. You like to say that we represent the capitalists here on the left. Well, no, ladies and gentlemen, it is you who represent capital against Hungarian workers. They do not even limit their arrogance, because after the proposal itself they started to consult with the workers' organisations, and Lajos Kósa only cynically noted that the proposal's reception was mixed, and that it would also have to be read between the lines, because they were clear. For this reason, I ask the Secretary of State why capital and capitalists are being protected against honest and honest workers. Why are there fences between capitalists and Hungarian workers in the world of work? And why are workers not guaranteed a decent living? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2018-12-03-84	Thank you, Congressman Szabó. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Bodó.
u2018-12-03-85	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Congressman! Hungary's Government's primary objective is the economic security of the Hungarian people and the widest possible provision of employment. However, this requires a competitive, modern economy, where production can respond to daily tasks. In order for businesses to be able to employ as many workers as possible and pay them as competitively as possible, it is essential to remove obstacles. Our new Labour Code, which entered into force in 2012, sought to meet the challenges of the world of work in an up-to-date manner by gathering the experiences of previous decades. The authors of the code could not have foreseen trends in international economic activity. Ten years ago, there was no practice of large variations in working intensity due to production cycles in a plant. The problems, honourable Member, are therefore not related to the number of workers. Today, the task in Hungary is to organise work for workers according to the needs of the modern age. However, increasing the length of working time or the number of overtime does not mean that the employee can be employed in an unlimited manner. The law will limit working time, the number of months in the framework, the number of hours that can be ordered has indeed increased, but this does not increase weekly working hours because it does not change. The proposal only changes the rules of the post. I draw your attention to two important guarantees: one is the EU Directive and the other is the collective agreement. The government always takes the interests of workers into account and does not, under any circumstances, allow them to be undermined. If the proposal is adopted, the regulation will continue to impose strict conditions for the application of overtime and longer working hours. With this, we do not return to the past, but to the present and plan for the future. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-03-86	Thank you, Secretary Bodo. Dear Parliament, Mr László Varju, representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. The Impact of Air Corridors on Újpest. Mr László Varju has the floor.
u2018-12-03-87	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In recent months, you have seen that Members, especially the population, are deeply concerned about the restructuring that has taken place in the field of aviation. In September, when it was the end of World War I, there was a bell ringing in Budapest on the 100-year anniversary, which reminded me of this, but at the inauguration of the statue the XIII. In the district, where I was present, within an hour, 11 planes passed directly over our heads in 60 minutes. This is happening both in Newpesten and Angelland, while you say in your earlier answers that you actually have to get used to it, we live in a big city. And I say, and the population, the voters, say that this has an impact, or that this is because at the end of this summer, you have given me the opportunity to reorganize, and this has been transformed, so the population of Budapest has a significant disadvantage in every sense, the city has become much dirtier and much louder, much more polluted. I'll ask the Secretary of State why he's allowed to do this. Who authorized the new airrivers? Why didn't you deal with the increased noise pressure of your decision? If that's the case, why didn't they put a mobile noise meter in every district concerned? Why is it that you do not care so much about the population and life of Budapest? And obviously we'll have to pay our taxes when you find some kind of answer to that, even though you're the only ones who caused this trouble, you've brought this trouble to our heads. It is no wonder that this atmosphere has developed in Budapest against you in this way. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of DK and MSZP.]]
u2018-12-03-88	Thank you, Congressman László Varju. I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés.
u2018-12-03-89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As you have already mentioned, I have informed you on several occasions: due to the location of the Budapest Liszt Ferenc International Airport and the orientation of its runways, the noise of air traffic is, unfortunately, inescapable to the capital and the residential areas of the surrounding settlements. There is no longer such coherent uninhabited zone over which planes could leave or approach the runways undetected to the human ear. I have also said that it is a pity that you did not pay attention at the time that the changes that entered into force on 16 August 2018 were necessary because of the mandatory EU standards. Here, the government had no discretion, since disregarding the provisions would have led to infringement proceedings. Of course, you, opposition representatives in general, have good reason to believe that they would like another procedure against our country in Brussels. [[Interventions from the lines of DK and MSZP]] All the more so, since your party partners and allies regularly try to discredit Hungary through Brussels, in many cases causing significant financial disadvantage to Hungarian people, Hungarian citizens, in addition to moral harm. Returning to air traffic: the introduction of changes has been preceded by detailed studies, which show that the total number of areas and residents affected by noise has decreased and that, according to available data, there is no excess limit or deviation from any rules or regulations. The number of districts affected by noise has also decreased in Budapest. In connection with the overnight rest of the residents, it can be said that if all navigation equipment and all runways are available without restrictions, there will be no take-offs or take-offs over Budapest during the deep sleep period. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: Yes, you can. Ten more!]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-12-03-90	Thank you, Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés. Dear Parliament, Ms Erzsébet Schmuck, Member of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: Why is the government's environmental protection measures delayed when there will be a new National Environmental Health Programme? It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor. [[13.30]]
u2018-12-03-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In 2017, the National Public Health Centre published the publication "Evaluation of the Environmental Health Situation of Hungary." The comments in this section support our long-standing concern that the deterioration of the environment and the worsening of some harmful environmental factors are closely linked to the numerous chronic premature deaths of the Hungarian population. Unfortunately, this affects not only the elderly but also young people and our children. This should be done urgently. According to the report, the environmental risk factor attributable to 6.2 percent of the total disease burden in Hungary, such as the contamination of particulate matter above WHO health, can be attributed to around 3-14 percent of all natural deaths among the population over 30 years of age. However, the situation is also disappointing with regard to the quality of indoor air, for example, in rural settlements of less than 5,000 people, 38.4% of the apartments are moldy. There has been a significant increase in the risk of thyroid cancer and prostate cancer in Hungary due to electromagnetic load and extra mortality during hot-wave days, UV-related skin tumors, hormonal disruptive substances, and diabetic diseases. For example, the report does not address asbestos-related matters. Mr. Secretary. Do you not think it is appropriate and timely to establish and implement a national environmental health programme related to the national environmental programme? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you.
u2018-12-03-92	Thank you, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2018-12-03-93	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Thank you for drawing attention to what your opposition colleagues like to keep quiet many times: there are many factors for our quality of life, not only can we narrow down our health; this is our genetic gift, our environment, how healthy we live, how healthy our way of life is, how we ourselves continue your healthy lifestyle, and in addition to these, the health institution system, which can also help the many years spent in health, and not only together with many other factors. Therefore, we have launched a number of programmes which are all trying to eliminate the factors raised by you, to improve this situation. In 2011, the government launched an inter-sectoral action programme to reduce small-scale particulate matter. This includes measures in the transport sector on the one hand, and in the industrial sector on the other, third in the agricultural sector and fourth in the residential sector, which can all reduce the diseases caused by particulate matter. Overall, we have spent 160 billion forints on this in recent years. You are familiar with the certification system of outdoor air quality, and we try to help with indoor air quality with residential recommendations and other documents and recommendations issued by the physician, now the National Centre for Public Health. The warning and warning system for which you are aiming is not only intended to inform the general public about heat waves, UV radiation, but also to enable the various bodies, health authorities, municipalities, disaster control, to prepare for their additional tasks. You also mentioned non-ionizing radiation. Here, the continuous monitoring of the exposure of the population to electromagnetic fields, the assistance given here, is also one of the tasks of the Centre for Public Health. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Use, prevention and asbestos removal of carcinogens are all included in waste management and environmental protection programmes. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. There's an intervention in Jobbik's ranks: No, they're not.]]
u2018-12-03-94	Thank you, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Dear Parliament, Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. What are the specifics about the planned construction of the M9? It's an address. Congressman Gergely Farkas has the floor.
u2018-12-03-95	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In recent years, I have spoken on several occasions in the Parliament about the planned sections of the M9 motorway, which would greatly affect the territory of my constituency and my homeland in a narrower sense, and would make a major contribution to its development. My hometown of Kecel, as well as Kiskunhalas, Jánoshalma, and the southern border region would also be a great help in achieving the project, it would have a positive impact on creating real jobs, launching new investments, attracting investors here, joining the national road network, achieving faster access to larger cities in the region and the capital. However, for nearly a decade and a half, the project has not made any real progress in our region, and we have not even heard of its preparations in recent years. For example, on the official website of the government, the latest news on the M9 motorway can be found in an entry dated April 2015. Hopefully, progress will be made now, as Minister Mihály Varga announced after last week's meeting of the National Competitiveness Council that they had accepted and presented to the government their main proposals to improve competitiveness. On the basis of what was said at the Minister's press conference, the M9 is part of the competitiveness package, but we have not yet been able to obtain more accurate information about the construction. I very much hope that this section of the M9 will also be treated as a priority in the decision-making situation, which affects my constituency, since unfortunately this region is lagging behind in infrastructure, economic and competitiveness, for example, compared to the Western parts of the country, supported by statistics such as the lowest annual net income per capita in each district of the county at national level. I'm asking the Secretary of State why it took so long to develop the M9. What are the specifics of the current proposal regarding the motorway? In Bács-Kiskun County, exactly what trail will the M9 take, and which cities will be affected? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-12-03-96	Thank you, Congressman Gergely Farkas. I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés.
u2018-12-03-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In order to strengthen the country and put it in place in the countryside, the government will prioritise the expansion and modernisation of transport infrastructure, and will devote significant resources to the development of the motorway network. Our goal is to reach a four-track section of the road within 30 minutes of any point in the country by 2030. The construction of the M9 motorway is also a conceptual element of the expansion of the motorway network, and the related South Great Plain tasks are not currently included in the relevant government decisions. Of course, if the government decides to implement these sections of the M9 motorway, the Ministry of Innovation and Technology will take the necessary measures. Congressman! It is facing people's daily experience when trying to make Bács-Kiskun County a neglected region of the country. Thanks to the Fidesz-KDNP parliamentary representative of the region, a great deal has been done to ensure that the results achieved together, economic and employment policy successes affect the people in the county as well as the inhabitants of other regions of the country. The outstanding success of Bács-Kiskun is the resettlement of the Mercedes plant, for example, its expansion, the number of jobs created by the investment and the related supply chain. And if you look at the development of transport: from some HUF 50 billion, the complete renovation of the 90 km long section of highway 55 connecting Szeged to the M6 motorway was completed this year, while the plan for the road between Baja and Hercegszántó is ongoing, and plans for the Danube Bridge in Mohács will be completed by 2021. The program will improve the transport possibilities of the villages by renovating the lower roads, so the renovation of the multi-digit roads in Bács-Kiskun, which cross the villages or go to their surroundings. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-03-98	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr. Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance a question: - Why is the government saving on pensioners? It's an address. I would like to inform Mr President that on behalf of the Prime Minister, on behalf of Mr Miklós Kásler, Minister of Human Resources, who is competent and competent on the subject, will answer the question at the request of Mr Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Congressman. [[13.40]]
u2018-12-03-99	Thank you very much; it will be shorter than the introduction. Mr State Secretary, I would like to ask you that all economic and financial analysts now, but the central bank itself, the Hungarian National Bank, is predicting that next year inflation will be above 3 per cent, and there are even analysts who risk reaching up to 3.5 per cent. This clearly shows the government's intention to save on pensioners in the next year's budget of 2.7 percent inflation. I would like to remind this House that it became clear, as early as autumn, that, for example, with such food prices, inflation of 2.7 per cent cannot be maintained. According to KSH's recent statement, fresh vegetables increased by more than 38 per cent on an average of one year, with inflation above 36 per cent of potatoes and inflation by nearly 8 per cent of dry pasta or flour. It is not difficult to conclude that inflation is likely to be above 3 per cent in the following year, which means that if it remains at 2.7 per cent, as stated in the recent government decree, pensioners will be lending to the government for 10 to 11 months, and then only in November of next year they can expect to receive a lump sum back. That is why I am asking the Secretary of State whether such measures are being taken to correct this 2.7 percent increase in the pension rate in January, as there was an example in history in 2016, when a 0.9 percent prognosis was calculated, it was raised to 1.6 percent. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-12-03-100	Thank you, Congressman Lajos Korózs. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2018-12-03-101	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Whatever you say, honourable Member, here in Parliament, pensioners will not forget that there was a party that was able to reduce the purchasing value of pensions, and that was the Socialist Party, with its then ally, who were able to take a month's pension away from all pensioners, and then they didn't care about how much the prices had risen, but only how to take it away from pensioners. The pensioners have experience that if the Socialists were in the government and had to save money at some point because you said that restrictions had to be made, this could be a Bokros package, it could have been 2008-2009, pensioners have always been bad because they wanted to tax pensions at the time of Gyula Horn, and in the subsequent Gyurcsány era they took a month's pension from pensioners. This is why it was an important guarantee for all pensioners that Fidesz and KDNP provided to all Hungarian pensioners in 2010 that we would preserve the purchasing value of pensions. We have said this after the shock, when you have reduced the nominal value of pensions by just about 8 percent, and therefore the value of your purchase. We have done this, we have created a legislative system, and here legislation regulates everything that the Member has asked us to do, in which pensioners can't do any harm, but they can do well. They can't be bad, because if inflation is higher than planned, they will receive it retroactively in November in the statutory procedure from January, but if inflation is lower than planned, they can keep the difference and the positive. Thus, the more than 29 percent increase in pensions that we have made in recent years meant a nearly 10 percent increase in purchasing value, as the differences have always remained with pensioners, with this 10% better, and with Hungary now having an economy that can operate with a pension premium and a HUF 10 thousand voucher for pensioners. I would reassure everyone: the law settles this issue, pensioners can't be bad, just good in the current legal system. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-03-102	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Sándor Székely, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance: "Do we have to be afraid of the holidays? It's an address. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: What does Santa bring to DK?]] Congressman Székely has the floor.
u2018-12-03-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Minister, It is very difficult today for opposition members to maintain their calmness and seriousness. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Seriousness fails!]] We often don't know whether to cry or laugh at what you're doing here under the heading of government. You have been ruling for nine years, unlike the years before your governance, it was not a global economic crisis, but an unprecedented global economic recovery, and Hungary has received thousands of billions of euros to strengthen its economy. So, after nine years like this, you wouldn't even be able to restore the 13th pension that the global crisis has taken, you can't even afford to increase pensions by the rate of inflation. Not only would you increase your wages, but vice versa: you just take away your cafeteria, but you don't raise your salaries enough to make up for the losses. Not only would you help the average people get a place to live, but on the contrary, you will take away the last construction, the housing register, that the ordinary people can use to save money. Not only would you reduce working time, like, say, Germany, which you like to refer to, but on the contrary, the 400-hour overtime is coming, which will have to be paid in three years' time. And that's just the harvest of the last month and a half. Gentlemen, you're going to bankrupt the country and the people in it who live here, who are supposed to serve you. You are pushing through a austerity package with impeccable and amazing aggression, as I understand it, Minister Szijjártó, most of all, to the request of German giant companies. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Fidesz is up against German EU policy, but he put down his gun to the German industry. You sold our country for tobacco. You have made Hungary a colony. What happened to the Austrians, the Turks, even the Russians, was only at the cost of serious blood sacrifices, you took care of it for us in a few years. So I ask the Minister very carefully and with great fear: are you planning to introduce further austerity measures in Hungary? Is there any chance of a wage increase in the following year that exceeds the loss of income resulting from the removal of cafeteria and inflation? Also, it really is 400 hours of overtime. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Do you want to introduce yourself while paying overtime in three years' time? Thank you very much.
u2018-12-03-104	Thank you, Congressman Székely. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Bodó.
u2018-12-03-105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman! There is no need to be afraid of the holidays, and neither has the government's policy previously been subject to any austerity measures in the future. The Government of Hungary is pursuing an economic policy and related employment policy for the well-being of the Hungarian people, the results of which have already been experienced. The number of people living from work has increased significantly, while the proportion of jobseekers has decreased significantly, wages such as the minimum wage and the average wage are much higher than ever before. The government does not plan austerity or even a government cycle economic policy aimed at maintaining balanced economic growth. In addition to maintaining financial stability, the government remains committed to extending support for families and strengthening the work-based economy. I would like to draw your attention to the second round of the Member's questions that the proposal for the organisation of working time contains two-way amendments. Working time rules constitute a complex system, and therefore the bill deals specifically with overtime and the special working time framework. The issue of working time organisation is dealt with under a separate heading of the Labour Code, as is dealt with in a separate EU directive. In order to protect legislation and workers, strict frameworks have been established for this purpose. This proposal does not want to relax the defence barriers, but to adapt the rules to the challenges of economic life, the working methods of the age. It is proposed that, during the 36-month working time limit, working time was allocated unevenly. The shift allowances, the night allowances will be paid every month. In this system, the employee may not work out all normal working hours that can be ordered for him in the average of three years, but it cannot happen, and I stress that when the framework is closed, he will not be paid overtime. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-03-106	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, This item is closed. Before we move on to immediate questions, we have a point of order: Congressman Antal Csárdi, LMP. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-12-03-107	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. I have to say that both the Parliamentary Act and the Rules of Procedure require that the government's representative answer the questions asked, but we know that if he says something, it is not necessarily an answer from the government's representative. I asked four questions, and I didn't get any answers. I would like to ask the President what he intends to do about it, and I am not alone in this problem, so that we can get answers to the questions that have been asked. In addition, honourable representatives of the government have the opportunity, of course, to express their views, but they cannot escape from the legislation of the law, so that answers can be given. Thank you very much. [[13.50]]
u2018-12-03-108	Thank you very much for your point of order, Congressman. Obviously, the law will find it difficult to determine what is a meaningful response and not a meaningful response. I suggest you contact the Affairs Committee or the House Committee with your question. Dear Parliament, We'll move on to immediate questions. Márton Gyöngyösi, a representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:, How credible is the government's policy? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Gergely Gulyás Prime Minister's Head of the Prime Minister's Office in response to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding or ask the Prime Minister for the answer in person.
u2018-12-03-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We'll wait for the Prime Minister.
u2018-12-03-110	Thank you very much, Congressman Gyöngyösi. Dear Parliament, Bence of Turdai... [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches: Jobbik! Better! Gergely Gulyás: Not yet a better one! It's not far from here.]] Dear Parliament, Brenner Koloman, a representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response. [[For signal:]] Congressman Brenner says yes. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-12-03-111	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, As it turns out a few minutes ago, the CEU is going, but what's next? God sees my soul, I would like to argue as an ex-university leader who, for nine years, had the task of accrediting, among other things, international training, the right of the CEU and Central European University to issue two degrees so far? But I think that, especially in the light of today, this case has long since been about this. This kind of professional debate, which was also stated in the resolution of the Venice Commission, the Council of Europe's panel of experts, that lex CEU itself complies with the legislation, but the way in which it is introduced affects foreign universities in Hungary, I think it shows the direction in which the third-thirds Orbán regime has turned, which is now trying to curb and occupy the university world and the freedom of research. As Fideszes EU Commissioner Tibor Navracsics said, from today, if any Hungarian citizen introduces himself in Europe, the question is what country you come from, where universities are being chased from. Is this all right, Mr. Secretary of State? Jobbik, as a national party, stands for conservative and truly civic values such as academic freedom and the autonomy of universities. This week, I will present to the Council of Europe's Committee on Culture, Education and Media a draft report of which I am the rapporteur, which is precisely on this topic: academic freedom and the autonomy of universities. I will have to answer interesting questions on behalf and defence of my country. The Hungarian government is not very helpful in this work, as we can see. We do not fear someone else's opinion, we do not support in any way the idea of an open society represented by George Soros, but a true patriot can convince his debate partners what is right and what is wrong. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Chasing away college is bad. What's next, Mr. Secretary? [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-12-03-112	I would also remind the Member that immediate questions should be formulated in two minutes. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2018-12-03-113	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Looks like for Jobbik, crossing Rubicon was when they started protecting Lajos Simicska. Compared to this, the defence of George Soros here in Parliament is just another step. We'll wait for the third one. Honourable Congressman, A university decides where, how it works, what trainings it carries out. [[A comment from Jobbik's benches: Don't be so cynical!]] The Hungarian government does and has done one thing: it sets a level playing field for all higher education institutions operating in Hungary. [[Intercoms in Jobbik's benches.]] Hungarian universities in Hungary can operate on equal terms, and foreign universities can operate on a level playing field in Hungary. There were several foreign universities that wanted to meet these requirements, they fulfilled what was required by the Higher Education Act. From this, it is clear that there are not insurmountable conditions, but conditions that can be fulfilled, as Parliament has also decided here on several issues when foreign higher education institutions wishing to comply with the law continued to operate in Hungary. But there are institutions or institutions that do not seem to be able to or do not want to comply with this, but are interested in conflict, political scandal and political bluffing. This, it seems, is the Soros University, which has not created real education in America, its native country, as required by the law, and as has all the other universities from abroad, who have been training in Hungary. He probably didn't want to keep it, because he wanted a political scandal, just like the Helsinki Commission wants a political scandal, or the TSA, or any other Soros organization when we talk about making foreign funding transparent. They do not make it transparent on purpose, precisely in order to create conflict, and they are trying to make Hungary as impossible as possible on an international scale so that they can achieve their main goal, the support of immigration in Brussels. Part of this wide-ranging political game is what you saw in connection with the Soros University. If you were to comply with the laws, you could continue to operate in Hungary. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by repeatedly jogging the bell.]] If you don't comply, then of course the law applies to them. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-12-03-114	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Brenner has a one-way rejoinder.
u2018-12-03-115	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, As I mentioned in the first half of my speech, I would very much like to conduct this kind of professional debate as to what constitutes a real double degree, and how, and how, what the CEU has done, which Mr. Secretary of State said here that he has failed to do in the opinion of the Hungarian Government. I was referring to the process that cannot be taken out of this coherent environment, that, once again, all Hungarian citizens throughout Europe will be welcomed with this news from today. I accept that there is an equal chance for every Hungarian university and every university wishing to issue a double degree to operate, but in a country where the conservative intellectuals are being hunted individually, I think that there is a very bad message to this step. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-12-03-116	Thank you, Congressman. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State.
u2018-12-03-117	Honourable Congressman, I believe that there can be no other basic operational condition for civil governance than to support the same legal conditions for everyone. And although György Soros wrote to Bálint Magyar in his letter to Bálint Magyar, when he was still Minister of Education, he thanked the lex CEU for its adoption, so the Soros University could have other operating conditions, under a civil government everyone, every Hungarian and foreign university, must comply with the same legal conditions. We cannot make exceptions for anyone; neither because he is very rich nor because he is very liberal, nor because he lives in America. We want to create a level playing field for everyone. In this, I don't think we can argue. We also try to do a lot for Hungarian higher education. You know: In recent years, higher education teachers have received 27 percent wage increases, and in the next two years we increase student normative by 40 percent, thus strengthening Hungarian higher education. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I would not draw fatal conclusions from the fact that the Soros University, which has 1,700 students and especially foreign students out of hundreds of thousands of students, is now trying to comply with Hungarian laws or not. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-12-03-118	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr. Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. The government has a premium and a salary increase, in health care debt, debt? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister Gergely Gulyás to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[14.00]]
u2018-12-03-119	Yes, thank you very much. Dear House, Dear Minister, For days there have been reports that Minister Kasler has solved every problem in health care, billions are flying, although there are items that can be solved out of 5 million forints, some that can be solved out of 10. Of course, the tree doesn't tell us what's going on with the 600 billion forints [[Dr. Pál Völner: I'm out of health care!]] which has been saved from health care in the last eight years, and that's not what this tree is about. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Before 2010.]] What happens to doctors who don't get a pension permit, and they line up months at the Ministry, I mean, with the papers, of course. In the meantime, it appeared that the salaries of the State Secretarys had been increased and that the number of Deputy State Secretarys had been increased, and today it is said that there are 117, while the debts of hospitals were almost above the size of last year. According to the news, the debt is over HUF 50 billion. The Péterfy Hospital and the Honvéd Hospital are at the forefront, I note that in March of this year, the Honvéd Hospital did not have a single penny of debt, but some county hospitals have caught up in the ranks of the members, the Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County Hospital, as far as I know, but the Békés County Hospital also has a huge debt, but even a small hospital like the Albert Schweitzer Hospital in sixty has accumulated a debt of nearly HUF 1.2 billion in ten months. Therefore, I would like to ask Minister what can be expected of doctors who are lining up for their operating licenses to take up a job with a pension; and what hospitals can expect in relation to debt settlement. Thank you very much.
u2018-12-03-120	Thank you, Congressman Korózs. I give the floor to Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office.
u2018-12-03-121	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The sentence that the government has withdrawn 600 billion forints from health care in recent years is likely to have been the words of an honest socialist representative in 2010. [[Lajos Korózs shaking his head: No!]] Or it could have been a fidesz speech this year too, because then it was true. Since then, however, we have provided significant additional resources for health care. You have mentioned wage increases here, so not for the health sector, just for wage increases, I would like to indicate that the government has spent more than 400 billion forints, which is plus compared to the 2011 situation, and thanks to this, the average medical salary in 2012 has increased by 82 percent. Of course, that's not enough either. In the last two years alone, the wages of specialists and pharmacists have increased by HUF 207,000, and the salary of health professionals has also increased by 77 percent compared to 2012. Of course, there are many problems and problems in health care; it is not an excuse, but not only in the region, but also elsewhere in the world. The management of hospitals must be subject to a thorough examination because, with the same funding, some hospitals can operate without loss, and in others debt will be accumulated over and over again. Nevertheless, the State must withstand the debt. It's going to happen again this year. The government will therefore simultaneously carry out its obligation to examine not only the legality of hospital management, but also its practicality, while at the same time providing HUF 55 billion in support to hospitals and healthcare providers. So the consolidation that happens year after year will happen again this year. It is important that we want to continue to maintain operating and incentive aid that allows for additional payments to hospitals that, by way of sound management, have not accumulated debt. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-12-03-122	Thank you, Minister. Congressman Lajos Korózs has a one-minute rejoinder.
u2018-12-03-123	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to point out that, in my opinion, until there are structural changes on this issue, these debts are able to produce the same figures on a recurring scale from year to year. That's one thing. And the other: I think they have had eight years to eliminate this problem, Minister, but so far they have only exchanged ministers, and no conceptual change in health has been realised in the direction that this re-production would have taken place here. That's one thing. The other one. We may be talking about under-financing here. I do not dispute that there are hospitals that may be wasteful, and that there are those that work sparingly, I do not dispute this, but then in the 6 years or the last 8 years, because, Minister, referred to as "12," in the last six years, it would have been possible to eliminate this problem. Thank you very much.
u2018-12-03-124	Thank you, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also possible, Minister.
u2018-12-03-125	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, 191 institutions received such incentive support last year, which managed carefully and did not accumulate debt, in order to result in a positive shift. There's been a positive shift in 76 percent of hospitals over the last year. However, I agree with the statement that in a good structure there can only be a minimum of debt and 55 billion, although significantly less than had to be consolidated before, is still very far from the minimum. [[Dr. László György Lukács: No!]] Nevertheless, I would like to remind you that in the 2019 budget year alone, we are spending 101 billion forints more on health than in the last year, and Minister Kásler has presented a long-term wage increase programme that will result in a salary increase of more than 70 per cent for nurses by the end of the cycle. I think these are respectable results. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-12-03-126	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, Mr Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "Why has CEU been expelled from Hungary?" It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister Gergely Gulyás to respond to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2018-12-03-127	[[The congressman's mic won't say.]] ♪ Without a better one ♪ [[The congressman's mic's on.]] Yeah, I'll take it.
u2018-12-03-128	Yeah. You have the floor, Mr. Notary, Congressman.
u2018-12-03-129	Dear House, Dear Minister, Today, the deadline for concluding the international agreement on CEU was over, and this university could have been held here. Of course, you can say that the CEU is coming to set deadlines for your government, but there are two things, my dear Minister. One is that the responsible university needs to inform its students where to start their studies and, of course, they can be outraged at the fact that a university is coming to set deadlines for your government, but the fact is that a government like yours, 12 of which create a dozen universities with international reputation, is a major achievement, so they are not on an equal footing. CEU has fulfilled the otherwise absurd and unnecessary legal obstacles that it has put in place, and has launched training in the United States, a training that is accredited by the same accreditation body that, say, New York University, Corner or Columbia, but that is not good for you. I would add that the Hungarian accreditation body has also accredited the CEU's domestic trainings. Another issue is that this is an accreditation body whose membership in international quality assurance organisations has already been suspended, as its independence is questionable due to the continued intervention of the government. On this basis, I ask Minister, since there is no technical argument to drive away the CEU, what political arguments led you to, what political intention was it to put the CEU out. And one more thing I would like to ask Minister. CEU was the first, but you ban majors, privatize other universities. Today's CEU, tomorrow's who? Who else is on your death list? Just so we can be prepared. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of DK and LMP.]]
u2018-12-03-130	Thank you. I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás.
u2018-12-03-131	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The fact is that if you read the opinion of the Venice Commission, which was adopted by the Committee following the Higher Education Act adopted in Hungary, you will indeed find criticism in it, but the Venice Commission does not dispute for a minute that the regulation that is in force in Hungary is existing in many countries of the European Union. That's why I don't understand criticism. I think that it is entirely legitimate for the government to have Hungarian accreditation to carry out higher education activities. The Central European University also has this, so if we speak Hungarian, we can say that the Central European University was here in Budapest and stays here. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[14.10]]
u2018-12-03-132	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Gergely Arato will have the floor in a minute.
u2018-12-03-133	Dear Minister, That argument is like saying that cutting off a man's leg is not a problem because he still has another leg. That's exactly what CEU's all about, and that's what you're trying to get rid of. The university was presented to the election that it could not continue either its Hungarian training or his American training in the way it had been. You're referring to the Venice Commission's position, but I must say you're not telling the truth. The Venice Commission describes very specifically in its resolution that your law is not fair with regard to the CEU and other institutions that have been operating here for a long time, because it has not provided clear conditions and has not given you a time limit which is binding on you. But once again, the CEU has passed this stupid law, and you won't let it work; you won't let it work because you're politically stabbing your eyes. Close the university, ban the profession of dictatorships, Mr. Minister, not democracies. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the lines of DK, Dialogue and LMP.]]
u2018-12-03-134	Thank you. You have a one-minute rejoinder for the Minister.
u2018-12-03-135	Thank you very much for the floor. I do not know whether we can see the Democratic Coalition as the spiritual heir of Bálint Magyar, but lex CEU was accepted by the Hungarian Bálints, indeed, it was referred to earlier by the State Secretary of Retvári. [[Intervention in the ranks of DK: The Parliament accepted it.]] The National Assembly accepted the amendment of the Higher Education Act on the proposal of the Hungarian Bálintek, as the Parliament also accepted the amendment of the Higher Education Act. It was an exception rule that specifically applied to the CEU, and specifically as a donation to George Soros, which was also thanked the government. We apply equal requirements and rules to universities, no legal deadline expired on 1 December. The criticism of the Venice Commission concerned the short preparation period; the National Assembly once extended the preparation period, and the Hungarian Government gave our American partners and friends a guarantee that the Central European University could operate in Budapest. This, I see, will continue to be the case in the future. I think it's pointless to keep stalling. Today, a clear decision has been made in this regard, or a clear decision has been made by the university's rector. We take that to their knowledge. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-03-136	Thank you, Minister Gulyás. Dear Parliament, Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What is it that is not? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2018-12-03-137	I'd like to wait for the Minister.
u2018-12-03-138	Thank you very much. The Minister must reply at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: "Who does the government choose? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr Sándor Bodó State Secretary to respond to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2018-12-03-139	Yes, I accept, Mr. President.
u2018-12-03-140	He'll take it. You have the floor, Congressman Csárdi.
u2018-12-03-141	Thank you very much. The question is, who does the Hungarian government choose: employees or multinationals? The question is poetic, of course, because we can see it precisely, in these few months, which has passed from the cycle, practically every meeting now has a decision that will further destroy and damage the situation of those who work in Hungary. But the question remains that, while we see the government implementing and representing the neoliberal economic policy, which, by the way, serves economic interests in an uncritical manner, Hungarian workers continue to suffer. I would like to say that the problem is not that they want economic development. The problem is that they want the employees to pay for it. It is worth going through this question. In the 2012 Labour Code, 72-hour work per week would have been legalized later, of course, at the pressure of the EU, reduced to 48, completely disabled the strike, the strongest tool of employee representation, but I also think we can talk about making cafeteria impossible. So the question remains, Mr. Secretary of State: why does the Hungarian government represent the profits of multinationals against employees? Also: when will the government finally understand that only respected workers can succeed in Hungary, and without respected workers Hungary's competitiveness is unimaginable? Thank you very much.
u2018-12-03-142	Thank you, Congressman Csárdi. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Bodó.
u2018-12-03-143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Congressman! They cannot rid themselves of this question of whose side the Government of Hungary is on, nor can they imagine the economic situation that it wants to be good for all the players, and in this case this is the case in particular: this amendment is in the interests of all the stakeholders in the world of work, and with its permission I would like to give you some details for information so that it can best interpret these thoughts. First of all, we want to support the hired workers, among other things, who are guaranteed to pay their wages by the amending proposal. If the government fixes the minimum borrowing fee in a regulation, the rental company may not agree on a low service fee which it cannot pay or is unable to pay the contributions due thereafter. The proposal to amend the rules on working time allows working conditions to be adapted to the production cycles of economic life, and this again includes the working order of workers. The development of Hungary's economy in recent years can be justified by facts, so we are on the right track, and this must be pursued consistently, as this is due to government policy. Among these policy measures, employment policy has a significant role to play, as I have said, as a work-based society is the engine of the economy's operation. The number of jobs has increased significantly over the past period, wages have risen radically, and the proposal to modernise working conditions is in the interest of both the employer and the worker. In answer to your question, we must see that the amendments made in the proposal can benefit all players in the world of work, and the government does not have to choose in this context. We are convinced that the proposal will at the same time result in improving the working conditions of workers and ensuring the success of businesses. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-03-144	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Csárdi has a one-minute rejoinder.
u2018-12-03-145	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The problem is, you can't count. Primary school 3rd class: a year is 52 weeks, each employee has at least four weeks leave, remains 48; if 48 weeks times the maximum 8 hours overtime, 48x8 is 384. On the other hand, you have written 400 hours in this bill. So it will be very difficult for me to explain to you why this proposal is problematic. All in all, beyond this recent proposal, your wage policy has evacuated this country. Because of you, because of your wage policy, there is a shortage of labour in this country today, and with a progressive tax rate and fair cafeteria benefits, this situation could be improved. Thank you very much.
u2018-12-03-146	Thank you, Congressman Csárdi. The rejoinder also deserves the Secretary of State.
u2018-12-03-147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Congressman, the saying that we cannot count is rejected in a round pretzel, and I would like to draw the Member's attention to the fact that the EU directive is 416. From now on, the figures that you put together here are difficult to interpret, but with your permission, I would like to point out that a very significant factor in the range of measures is that this can be done on the basis of a collective agreement, that is to say, from now on, all actors can explain the facts and arguments that are essential for the signing of such an agreement. I would ask you to take these aspects into account and to support our proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[14.20]]
u2018-12-03-148	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Notary Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Minister of Defense an immediate question:. What is going on here, Minister? It's an address. Minister has appointed Minister of State Németh to respond to an urgent public task. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response. [[On Bence Torda:]] Mr. Note says yes. You have the floor.
u2018-12-03-149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. Three years ago, the Dialogue revealed the missile scandal, the fact that the Hungarian Army sold weapons for a few million forints to a small kft called the Pilis Hunting Shop. We rang the emergency bell, told them this was gonna be a problem, filed a complaint, but the government didn't do anything. Since then, it has been discovered that the two Russian arms smugglers working at Kft. wanted to sell the weapons to Mexican drug lords in a billion-dollar business so that they could use the Hungarian missiles, machine guns and more against the US military. Thanks to the U.S. authorities, the Russian arms dealers were apprehended in Hungary, but you ended up releasing them not to the United States, but to Putin Russia, causing an international scandal. My questions to the Ministry of Defence: why do they even sell military weapons to private companies that are sharp or abusive? If it was already sold, why only for a few million forints when it was proven to represent a billion dollars? Why did they sell it to a frivolous, even suspicious, little kft? Why did the Ministry lie in 2015-16 that everything is all right, that guns can't fall into the wrong hands? Has the Ministry been prosecuted, has there been an internal investigation of the case, or has it been planned? If Russian arms smugglers have committed a crime against the United States, the US has discovered the case, and the U.S. has first requested extradition, then why have they been released to Russia, how do you appreciate this decision that you did not make, the Ministry of Defence? How does this scandal affect our relationship with our strongest military ally, the United States of America? I'm asking you to answer all seven questions in substance. Thank you.
u2018-12-03-150	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Szilárd Németh, State Secretary.
u2018-12-03-151	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Just because you're telling lies in Parliament, unlike ten days ago in front of the Ministry of Defense, doesn't mean they're justice. However, you still produce false news as well as Fake news, as the press with which you are trying to discredit the Hungarian Defence and the Ministry of Defence. I would like to inform you that the period when the Hungarian Defence Forces were put on the floor is the period of your party sorority, the MSZP, the Gyurcsány government and the Bajnai government. At that time, the Hungarian soldiers were released into the wind, when they closed down the military colleges and secondary schools, places of service, barracks, and they sold the Hungarian Defence Service's capabilities and military capabilities, including weapons, land-based or air-related defence systems, which we would now like to re-establish within the framework of the Zrínyi 2026, defence and force development program. I would also like to inform you that what you are saying is not true at all since 2010. Since the change of government took place in 2010, if the Hungarian Defence and the Ministry of Defence sells the disarmed weapons, if they make such a deal, they will only do so under international treaties, international laws, EU and Hungarian laws, applied by the United States of America, Russia and any country. Please accept my reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-03-152	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman Bence Tordai, notary.
u2018-12-03-153	The Dialogue published documents proving that in 2012-13, you handed these weapons over to this suspicious little kft., who would have sent them to the Mexican drug lords with their Russian friends. All I have to say about Fake News is that the U.S. Foreign Affairs spokesperson said that the United States was disappointed that the Orbáns didn't release the Ljubisins to them. I quote: Hungary's decision raises questions about its commitment to law enforcement cooperation with the United States, which makes both the United States and Hungary and the citizens of the world less safe. Let me quote two of his bosses: the Minister of Defence said at a conference last week that Russia is a direct threat to Hungary, and Viktor Orbán said in July this year after the NATO summit that the southern threat to NATO is terrorism and the eastern threat is Russia. In light of these, it's very specific how you handle this case.
u2018-12-03-154	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is also available to the Secretary of State.
u2018-12-03-155	You lie all the time, Congressman. We should also look at extradition. It was given to both parties by Hungary, the Russians and the Americans, but because it was Russian citizens, they were sent to Russia. On the other hand, there are other extraditions. Hungary has used nine extradition requests against the United States, eight of which our country has been rejected. So extradition doesn't work the way you think it does, or what you intend to disclose. These were all lies and false news. In connection with this particular case: you were burned ten days ago before the Ministry of Defence with this story, and now you're burning yourself and your party here in Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-03-156	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, László Böröcz, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: what means does the government act against anti-Semitism? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-12-03-157	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Minister, Organisations with anti-Semitic views could march on several occasions under socialist governments in Hungary; it is enough to think only of events in Heroes' or Castle. However, the governments of that time wanted to speak only in words against the incitement of hatred, but their actions did not prove their vocal voices. Let us not forget that Jobbik was also created in the ruins of catastrophic socialist governance, not without extreme and anti-Semitic manifestations. It is enough to think only of Márton Gyöngyösi's proposal for listing, or of his colleague, Gergely Kulcsár, who spit in the shoes on the shore of the Danube, which commemorate the victims of the Holocaust. István Szávay also has extreme anti-Semitic views based on the recordings, and if the recording is not released, he could continue to act as the deputy leader of the Jobbik faction. The first Orbán government was the one that declared April 16th the Day of Remembrance of the victims of the Holocaust in Hungary. Furthermore, the Orbán government has established the House of Terror, which presents the shocking actions of the anti-Semitic movement of arrows. In 2012, the Anti-Semitism Foundation was established with the support of the government. Köves Shlomó, head of EMIH and one of the founders of the foundation, said that Hungary made a significant contribution to the fight against anti-Semitism and expressed its appreciation to the government. In 2017, unlike Western European countries, according to the Foundation, no Jewish abuse was carried out in Hungary because of their origin. The government has also recently decided to allocate nearly 1 billion forints to the fight against European anti-Semitism. With regard to what has been said, I would like to ask the Minister what means the Hungarian Government is acting against anti-Semitism. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-03-158	Thank you, Congressman Böröcz. I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás.
u2018-12-03-159	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, With regard to anti-Semitism, the Hungarian government has made it clear on several occasions that the zero tolerance principle is in place and we intend to enforce it. The political tradition of the period following the change of regime in Hungary was bad, that even those who had done a lot against anti-Semitism could be accused of creating a centre-right conservative civilian government with anti-Semitism. We believe that the result of this baseless accusation was that when really anti-Semitic phenomena were raised in their heads, by the way, during the reign of Ferenc Gyurcsány, it was very difficult to confront them. [[14.30]] I still consider it important that the accusation of anti-Semitism is serious enough to be used only if it is justified, unfoundedly accused. If, on the other hand, it is well founded, then the conclusions are drawn by everyone. That is why I think it is very important for us to see that today Hungary can be proud that the Jewish community in Budapest can truly live in peace in Europe, and that physical atrocities in Hungary have not understood Jewish people in recent years. In comparison, Western Europe cannot say the same about itself. We can also see that modern anti-Semitism has been strengthened both in practice and on an ideological basis in recent years in Western Europe, in practice as a result of immigration, and ideologically, many have contributed to this from the initiation of the Marx statue, who is, after all, the creator of modern anti-Semitism, to the extent that they also give or legitimize political forces, for example, we see this in Hungarian politics, even at the level of inter-party cooperation, who can rightly be accused of anti-Semitism. I think the question is important, and that is why it is important that the Hungarian Government gives all the support to act against anti-Semitic acts in Hungary and to see clearly what is going on in Europe. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-12-03-160	Thank you, Minister. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman Böröcz.
u2018-12-03-161	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Thank you for your answer. It is important that we live in a community based on the Jewish-Christian culture, and if we look back on Europe's more than two thousand years of history and a thousand years of Hungary, in a community where no one can be harmed because it has a different identity, religion or origin. I would like to ask the government to continue to protect the Jewish people living in Hungary, the Jewish culture in Hungary, as they are an integral part of our society. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-12-03-162	Thank you, Congressman Böröcz. Minister indicates that he does not wish to make use of the possibility of rejoinder. Dear Parliament, Lőrinc Nacsa, representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party... Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, the representative of Jobbik, also wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question. It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister Gergely Gulyás to respond to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2018-12-03-163	Thank you, I accept.
u2018-12-03-164	You have the floor, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian.
u2018-12-03-165	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to say that it is very right to set demographic targets in Hungary, it is very right to set a turnaround, according to which the perilous eclipse of Hungarians is slowing down, and then it can finally stop, although this may obviously be part of a decades-long process. At the same time, we can see from the recent demographic portrait that, in relation to these objectives, if the government has not completely failed, but the fertility rate has not been able to increase for a year and a half, and the number of live births is falling. So, although we're not against it, the certificate isn't very bright. At the same time, we find that the burden seems to increase for our most difficult Hungarian citizens, and housing crisis and housing poverty are increasingly affecting wider circles. Since the CSOK is typical of the upper middle class, the government is able and wants to favour the reduction of VAT on basic foods in full and in the necessary depth, and has not been accompanied by a price reduction, since less than 10 percent of the product range has been applied only to this system. What hurts most is that, by taking the minimum wage tax credit, the social groups from whom childbearing, if not boom, could be expected to have the most difficult situation, or at least some kind of recovery in this situation. After all, the latest edition of the demographic portrait has shown that, unfortunately, there has not been a significant increase in the willingness to give birth among graduates. And if we add that the cut-off of the cafeteria and typically the transfer of this system into a friendly and familiarity circle are also lined up alongside the three difficult factors of the most difficult number of people, then we can say that this very wide multimillion-dollar social base will have to suffer difficulties and amazing burdens that can affect both demographic and national objectives. The question is, then, how does the government feel about the possible return of the tax credit. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-12-03-166	Thank you, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. I give the floor to Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office.
u2018-12-03-167	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, While I can see the political advances between Jobbik and the left, I would still keep you from making the biggest economic policy failure of socialist governance even in theory, because for now it seems that in practice there will be no possibility, thank God, of doing so in a good time. If the question of what was the biggest mistake of socialist economic policy, then it is an extremely long line that has succeeded in bankrupting a country that they have considered to be in good condition in six years. But even among these, it is highlighted that instead of raising the minimum wage fairly, it has been exempt. It's the opposite of good. The minimum wage must be increased, so we raised the minimum wage by 88 percent. Negotiations between employers and employees are still ongoing. As a result, we do not know what the result is, if there is an agreement, the government has already approved it, if not, then the government must decide on its own. But there is a good chance that we can report an increase in the minimum wage of more than 100 percent in eight or nine years; in fact, after the 11 was the first one we could decide on, which is why in eight years. I think it's the right policy. Compared to this, the fact that the 15 per cent tax liability applies to all, I think it is right, financially feasible and involves everyone in sharing the burden. You may disagree with the one-key tax, but you must see that it has done good for the economy. You have to see it, and I say so much about the case of the poorest, and besides the 88 percent increase in the minimum wage, it is worth saying in any way that more than 4.5 million people are working in Hungary today. In the past, less than 3.7 million people worked and less than 2 million people paid taxes. That's what led this country to a state failure, that's what had to be avoided. So today, I think it's secondary to whether someone who earns minimum wage pays income tax. The question is whether the minimum wage is rising properly. Our goal is to make radical minimum wage increases, but not to exclude anyone from the obligation to bear public burdens. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-12-03-168	Thank you, Minister. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman.
u2018-12-03-169	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I'm asking my fidesz colleague to at least pull themselves together inside the house. Your fellow Member was just trying to play the anti-Semitic card against Jobbik, and you're accusing this community of moving left. Take the question seriously, Minister. And if you don't have the professional skills to do it, because you don't seem to have it, then hand it over to someone who can at least mime or imitate how you know how to do it. I'd like to tell you, you just said that minimum wage taxation is a good thing. And I'm saying that minimum wage earners should be burdened less than they are at the moment. This is where the debate would be between us, and you have tried to take this issue in a philosophical direction; it is wrong, I add. We are not having a one-key, multi-key debate, I said that housing poverty should be lifted for those who earn minimum wages, the 27 percent world champion VAT, which is the most charged to them, must be reduced, we must reach into this system, we must reduce the VAT content of basic foods, and we must also reduce the price of cafetheria, and we must return the cafeteria to these people if they are to stay in Hungary and have children here. If they have a completely different purpose, they'll even get caught up in their lies. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-12-03-170	Thank you, Congressman. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Minister.
u2018-12-03-171	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Congressman resented the fact that I accused Jobbik of moving left, and then acted as if there were any contradictions between what Parliamentary Secretary Rétvári or Mr Böröcz said or what I said. But you didn't notice that the previous immediate question on your part was concerned about George Soros' university. I therefore suggest that you also take into account the content of the Members speaking from your own group. [[Z: Dániel Carpathian: It's not your fault that you don't understand.]] Finally, I would like to point out to you, Congressman, the question of how much you will receive is the question of the minimum wage for those who are undoubtedly not too complicated in mathematics. [[14.40]] If the minimum wage has increased by 88 percent and it has a tax content of 15 percent, then it is significantly better than if the minimum wage had otherwise been exempt, but its amount had not been increased. This has otherwise been the case between 2002 and 2010: modest minimum wage increases and tax exemptions overall meant less than the significant increase in the minimum wage that the government has introduced in recent years and will continue to support. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-03-172	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, Mr.Lőrinc Nacsa, representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, wants to ask the foreign minister an immediate question:. How does the cooperation of the V4 help our economic development? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Tamás Menczer Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response. [[Nacsa Lawrence nodds.]] Congressman says yes. Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc has the floor.
u2018-12-03-173	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The Visegrád cooperation or the V4 regional cooperation framework of the Czech Republic, Poland, Hungary and Slovakia. The aim of this cooperation is to jointly represent the economic, diplomatic and political interests of these Central European countries and to coordinate possible actions. The historical history of the Visegrád Convention is the medieval agreement that was initiated by King Robert Károly III of Hungary in November 1335 at the Royal Palace of Visegrad. They attended the participation of Polish King Kázmer and Czech King János of Luxembourg. The rulers have already agreed to close cooperation in the area of politics and trade. This cooperation was renewed on 15 February 1991. The Visegrád Declaration was signed by Václav Havel, President of the Czech Republic, Lech Wałęsa, President of the Republic of Poland and József Antall, Hungarian Prime Minister. Dear Secretary of State, CHAPTER XXI The V4 want to overcome the challenges of the century together. The most important of these may be the protection of Christian culture, the issues of our security, and the development of infrastructure affecting trade, economy and boosting the region's economic action. And make every person's life easier. This is why the news is glad that the establishment of the Budapest-Pozsony-Brünn-Warsó fast train connection is the common political will of the Visegrád Four. The construction of the expressway and the installation of motorways and motorways are a huge relief for both personal and freight traffic, which can save considerable time and certainly increase the competitiveness of the region. Of course, the investment begins with the start of studies and planning, but we hope that the first train will start as soon as possible and the cars will be on the highways. On the basis of the above, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State how fast the construction of the V4 expressway is expected and what other fast-track V4 infrastructure projects can be expected. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-03-174	Thank you, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. I give the floor to the Secretary of State Tamás Menczer.
u2018-12-03-175	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, You are right, in relation to the V4 it is worth talking about the economic dimension, apart from the defence and security policy dimension, which is an example here, in particular, of the fight against illegal immigration. Even because the economic growth of the V4 is twice the EU average. So right now, it can be said that the V4 are the engine of European growth. Of course, Hungary and the Hungarian economy will also play their part. I'd like to approach this from an external economic point of view. From the external economic side, we saw record data last year, which means that Hungary's exports exceeded EUR 100 billion. It also means that 96 investments came to Hungary last year through our investment agency. Both data record records, and although the higher the record is, of course, because they are going up and down year after year, are obviously becoming more difficult, but based on this year's six-month and this year's known figures, we have a good chance of making records this year, or at least achieving record-breaking results in the field of export and investment. It is also true that, in relation to infrastructure, the North-South infrastructure has not been built nearly as much as the East-West infrastructure, and this is undoubtedly an economic competitive disadvantage, we would like to change that. Recognizing this, in June 2018, the V4 prime ministers adopted a joint declaration on the development of the high-speed rail network in Budapest, and on 1 October 2018 stakeholders set out the steps needed to implement the project and set up an expert working group to coordinate the preparation of the project. On the Hungarian side, we have allocated HUF 1.5 billion for the feasibility study, and the feasibility study could start in early 2019 and be ready by mid-2020. All further details will be visible after the feasibility study has been completed. Thank you for your concern. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-03-176	Thank you, Secretary of State Menczer. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman Nacsa.
u2018-12-03-177	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Thank you for your answer. Dear Secretary of State, What we can see in Hungary and across Europe is that there are opposition parties that support the idea of a federal union, and that they do not share the position of the Hungarian people on immigration. These voices, these parties, these politicians usually attack Visegrád cooperation and try to make it look like a passing fantasy held together only by the fight against illegal migration. But as we have heard, economic growth in Central Europe has been more than double the EU average in the last eight years, and I think that if we look at the population of the V4s, it will represent 12 percent of the European Union. I believe that this strong economic and political cooperation will not be ignored in Brussels. I wish you for this work, as you said, that the expert task force has started work on the express train... I wish you good work on this, and thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-03-178	Thank you, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Secretary of State.
u2018-12-03-179	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, In connection with what he said: the V4 have often been reported dead, but this has never been proven. Opponents say things like that all the time. In this regard, I can say that the V4 has never been as prosperous and as close as it is today. Back to his first speech, which I did not have time to mention, I would also like to mention, because we have both talked about the rail network, but I would also like to say a few thoughts about the motorway network, because, of course, the development in the north-south is extremely important here too. Here I can report that we will complete the development of the M15 by 2020 and build the new bridge in Komárom, and we will also build the missing sections of the M30 and M35 motorways by 2022. They are part of the Via Carpatia transport Corridor connecting Eastern Poland and Eastern Slovakia with Romania through Hungary. So we are also working intensively on rail and the development of the fast-track network. Thank you again for your concern. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-03-180	Thank you, Secretary of State Menczer. Dear Parliament, Mr. Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: It's an address. I must say once again that the Minister has appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I'm asking Congressman... [[Lajos Korózs: Yes.]] It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman Lajos Korózs.
u2018-12-03-181	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Obviously, you go shopping, you go to the market, and you can see the prices, especially at the grocery stand. Several people mentioned it here today, but in Question Time myself, when I mentioned, in relation to 2.7 percent budgetary inflation, why the pension increase for next year was not corrected as forecast, that was the answer, because it was accepted in July and I said this answer in summary. There have been some run-ins by the government, and I do not dispute that, for example, the VAT reduction of 5% for eggs, but also for chicken meat and pork. These, I stress, are not disputed. At the same time, it appears that there is no effective government measure in order to enforce these VAT reductions, because it appeared on the market that prices crawled back a few months later to those prices that were before the VAT reduction. Over the course of one year, vegetable prices increased by more than 38 percent, with potatoes rising by more than 36 percent. But it should also be mentioned in addition some fresh vegetables. [[14.50]] As I mentioned, you must be on the market, I have seen in the last two weeks that the price of parsley root in the Eger market was 1600-1700 forints. Mezőkövesden is likely to meet such prices, Mr Secretary of State. That is why I am asking what they are doing to ensure that VAT reductions also apply to prices and that traders place their products on the market at reduced prices. Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm waiting for your answer, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-12-03-182	Thank you, Congressman Lajos Korózs. I give the floor to State Secretary András Tállai.
u2018-12-03-183	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In your question, in the hour of immediate questioning, will Christmas come with a huge price? He asked the question with a title. So I was heartbroken to see what he was going to say about the rise in the price of stuffed cabbage, fish juice, turkey roast, or poppy seed beygli. Compared to this, it could mention only one product group: vegetables, and potatoes, then fresh vegetables, and the parsley root available in Eger. But he did not mention, for example, that sugar prices have decreased by 20 percent in the last year. Either he did not mention that the price of the pig did not substantially increase, or that the price of other meats did not substantially increase, or that the price of the offal from which we used to make stew at Christmas fell by 3.1 percent this year. What's more, if you fry the products with food oil, it's only a 0.4 percent increase. But if he served coffee to his dear family members at Christmas, we could say that the price of coffee decreased by 0.7 percent. However, if you want to put sugar, chocolate, or cocoa on the table, because we also do it at Christmas, I can tell you that the price has also not increased, because the increase is only 0.3 percent. Overall, inflation is 2.8 percent in Hungary today. But I would add that the increase in income in the first ten months is 11.7 percent. The difference is more than 9 per cent; 9 per cent is the difference between inflation and the increase in income. Now, you haven't been able to do that in the government of the last three cycles, because you've always had this number reversed. Inflation has always been higher than the outflow of income. Now, you copy that, Congressman. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Nacsa Lawrence: But what about turnips?]]
u2018-12-03-184	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State Tallai. You have a one-minute rejoinder for Congressman Korózs.
u2018-12-03-185	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You seem to want to make this a cabaret party, Mr. Secretary. Don't tell me it's normal that parsley root in a country costs twice as much as a pig's shoulder. This does not mean that you've steered something amazingly well, and this is how much the price of pork per kilo costs, but that food prices, including vegetable prices, have been loosened. You have made a laughing stock of those needy people who can't eat fish and stuffed cabbages at Christmas because that's what you joked about here, Mr. Secretary, rather than giving a sensible answer to what's going on with, for example, the payment of firewood, because a lot of people can't even heat up. It seems that there are nearly 400 thousand people who would be entitled to, for example, the firewood action announced by the state in the election campaign. [[Dr. Pál Völner: And when did you pay for firewood?]] But these people won't get it, simply because of the 12 thousand forints they would have to cover even the shipping costs. That should have been the answer, Mr. Secretary. But you still have a minute.
u2018-12-03-186	Thank you very much. We're listening to Mr. Secretary of State this minute.
u2018-12-03-187	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, You're a comedian with parsley root. [[Noise. Intruder from Jobbik's benches, he sells Petrezselym!]] But in terms of trends, you had inflation above 20 per cent during your first government, between 94 and 98. After that, Fidesz steered for four years, took it below 10 percent, halved inflation. In the two subsequent cycles, inflation was 5.3 percent during your governance. For the next eight years, we also halved this, because inflation between 2010 and 18 was 2.4 percent. And by the way, you're pursuing a two-faced policy, and so are you, because the MSZP [[Gergely Harvestó: How much was the turnip, tell me!]] When he is in government, he demands a price reduction at 2.8 percent inflation. And you're a two-faced politician because you didn't vote for the reduction of VAT on fish meat and the Internet to 5%. He did not vote for a reduction in the VAT on milk, and in 2018 Lajos Korózs abstained. He did not vote for a reduction in VAT on poultrymeat, fresh milk and eggs, and he did not vote for a reduction in VAT on pigmeat. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: He votes for parsley!]] Therefore, you are two-faced politicians, honourable Member. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-12-03-188	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, This item is also closed and the speeches following the agenda are followed. Zsolt Becsó, representative of Fidesz, applied for a post-municipal speech with the title "City Day of Grief." I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2018-12-03-189	Mr President, Dear House, Salgótarján remembers and mourns in a few days, on December 8th. Sixty-two years ago, in the square in front of the county hall, a peaceful demonstration ended in one of the most horrific bloodbaths in Hungary's history after World War II. Why did this have to happen? We could ask the question. In November 1956, our struggle for freedom was overcome by the terrible outnumber, the revolution was still alive, as workers' councils were at the forefront of factories, factories and jobs. The global resistance across the country has shocked the members and minions of the Kádár government. Therefore, a diabolical plan was devised to eliminate dual power, that is to break workers' councils, to intimidate the masses. This required a sufficient number of armpowers for all depravity and brutality. In November, the Armed Forces were set up in Budapest. In county seats and larger rural cities, the leaders of the MSZMP organize the first karmatalmist units primarily from party and state leaders, cadres, and ÁVHs who advance from illegality during the revolution, with direct party leadership authority. Major General Sándor Házi appears at the head of the counties as appointed commanders of the Armed Forces in Nógrád. A sentence that greatly influences the life of our city from the decision of the central management reads:. Some blokes must be protected with more armpower, and the organization must also be accelerated: Miskolc, Pécs, Salgótarján. The decision of Gyula Uszta, which leaves no doubt as to the determination of the leaders, remains in the minutes of the conference, and I quote: "The mass and blood-free use of the armpower." But back to square one. Why should the most important working cities, Miskolc, Pécs, Salgótarján be better protected and protected from whom? It's not from the workers, is it? Yes, they do, because at the moment they have the power to operate the real workers' councils. Well, this unadulterated communist schizophrenia, the working-parastic government, led by the working party, protects workers from working power. Ladies and gentlemen, In early December, the decision was made for the mass deployment of the new armed forces. Their aim is obviously to break the after-wars of the revolution, and to retaliate and deter those involved in the revolution. One of the forms of karma action was the use of row fires. The obvious feature of these is that its decision-makers essentially sought mass murder. Vengeance has begun from Tatabánya to Eger. The Bolshevik power set a trap in Salgótarján. At dawn that day, avos and Soviet units arrested two workers' council leaders, causing a huge outrage in the city. Thousands of decent laborers marched before the county council and the Salgótarján Police Department. They demanded the immediate release of the arrested, the withdrawal of the Soviet troops, the resignation of the Kádár government, and the defamation of the deployed Kartalms. The first shot was fired in front of the county council, where only Kartalmists were present. Then, following the explosion of a voice grenade, panic escalated on both sides, and even Soviet troops standing up in front of the police and policemen's weapons unleashed a murderous fire on peaceful protestors. Comrade Marosa's promise has been fulfilled. There were bloody bodies all over the street. As a result of the volley fire, 136 persons were taken to the hospital. Of these, 27 have already arrived dead at the medical facility, and 19 have died in the hospital. So 46 of them were 33 men, 2 male children, 11 women lost their lives as a result of the volley, but among them there was no one wearing a karma uniform. The power has disbanded the working council because of the bloody events that have taken place. On December 13, Lajos Hargitay and Rudolf Hadady tortured and shot to death from Ipoly. [[15.00]] Salgótarján triggered the distinct hatred of power by the fact that the work here rejected Kádár's system. Yet, what we should be proud of most is the way in our city labour solidarity worked. On the first call thousands went to demand the release of their fellow workers, even though at that time all reasonable people knew that they were playing with their lives, but in people there was more camaraderie than fear, a command of solidarity. Ladies and gentlemen, Remember all the heroes and sacrifices. Remember them, but don't forget their killers. If what we know since Marai is that there will always be a new life of blood, then there will be life here in Salgótarján, there will be a future, but we and our sons must make it so that we do not have to be ashamed of those we mourn now. We mourn and remember. Every year, we must return to the memory of our dear dead as the idea of 56, because this is the key to preserving the freedom that they and their companions could not fight for themselves, but they have suffered for us. Dear House, Remember the heroes of Salgótarján [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] The ones who gave us freedom!
u2018-12-03-190	Thank you, Congressman Zsolt Becsó. Dear Parliament, In addition, Mrs Dóra Dúró spoke after the agenda with the title of Guilt and Forgery. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2018-12-03-191	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, During the past eight years, there has not been a single film showing the glorious periods of Hungarian history supported by the Hungarian National Film Fund. So we wasted another decade, while, by the way, the Fidesz government's first measure in the field of the film was to abolish the Hungarian Historical Film Foundation. However, as they say in the one-time joke, there would be a demand for it, because the most watched Hungarian film of all time is the Egri stars, whose 50-year anniversary we can celebrate this year, which is, on the one hand, a celebration, and if we consider the 50 years since then, then we have much more to be ashamed of. The demand is also shown by the creation of a slightly fresher film, The Horseman, which, at the same time, was not supported by the Film Fund or even played in cinemas, but more people saw this one film in the year it was published than all the films supported by the Film Fund that year. So that there is a huge social need in this regard, it is obvious from these examples, but the government is quite simply unwilling to take this electoral will into account. The fact that this expectation is still called a cretinous nationalist cheetah on HVG's columns may not surprise us, but at the same time a government claiming to be national could recognize the significance of the enormous need to educate young people about national identity, Hungarian national pride, and how important culture is in general, but how effective the film can capture young people. Last week, my five-year-old boy was sick, and we watched the Egri stars at home with him, and he has been playing against the Turks ever since, when he and his brother were fighting about who the Turk should be and who the Hungarian should be, so a four- and five-year-old boy could be affected by a movie that was filmed 50 years ago. Obviously, it is not possible to exclude Andy Vajna, who, as a citizen of the world, must be said, is also a completely foreign person from Hungarian national culture in his personality, so it cannot be expected that, as long as he is the full leader of everything related to film in Hungary, films showing Hungarian history can be made authentically. And the fact that the SZDSZ lives on, we can also see in the person of Ágnes Havas, the CEO of the Film Fund, who is known to belong to the circles of the former SZDSZ, and he is the former partner of the producer who won the most of the support of the Film Fund, who has won 5 billion HUF as a producer since the existence of the Film Fund. They click on this in Budapest, as the village slang says. Last time, the Hunyadi movie blew the fuse, and the script of the one that was entrusted to János Szász, as a result of another incomprehensible decision. Thank God, as a result, critical opinions have been published in the media as well as in government circles, especially on the columns of the Pesti Guys and Hungarian Times. When, for approximately 1 million forints per page, someone writes a storyboard about János Hunyadi and our victory in Nándorfehérvár, in which János Hunyadi made an alliance with Croatian hussars, horsebacks and Hebrew gunmen, who, by the way, only appears at the end of the film itself, is almost 90 percent of the film, and at the end, János Hunyadi himself, one of the greatest figures in Hungarian history, and the triumph in Nándorfehérvár was one of the most important events in Hungarian history, then our indignation is very difficult to contain. Just because there is a man about Hunyadi, there is a writer, namely Mór Bán, who has already put something on the table, fellow Members, because his nine volumes have been sold in more than 150,000 copies in Hungary. This is no small achievement in the world in which we are living now, and this series of novels presents these events more faithfully than that of János Szász, which is also judged by the fact that, for example, they are eating beangulls before the discovery of America in this scenario. We should, therefore, count on Mor Bán and writers and artists representing his spirituality to strengthen national identity so that Hungarians do not have to watch TV series from Suleiman. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the independents.]]
u2018-12-03-192	Thank you, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró. Mr. Erik Fülöp also spoke after the agenda with the title "The Prosecution of Anti-Corruption Prosecution." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-12-03-193	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, When the word politics is spoken, the average person is most affected by disgust and contempt, and this is largely due to the fact that, over the last 30 years, the political corruption scandals have shifted from one another to another in government cycles. Unfortunately, in 2018, we reached the point where we could say that state corruption became institutionalized. This is also a huge problem, because not only politics as art is being cut off by corrupt politicians, but also because they take serious billions and even I think almost hundreds of billions out of the pockets of decently working Hungarian taxpayers every year or every cycle. We can see that the current system is not sufficient to curb corruption, and that the current prosecution system needs to be changed. The Hungarian Movement completely rejects the kind of opposition proposal that would try to move beyond our national borders in the fight against corruption and place the Hungarian anti-corruption fight in the hands of an external organisation, the European Public Prosecutor's Office. We clearly see and believe that the Hungarian people have to decide such a serious internal matter as a sovereign state, as a sovereign decision for themselves, and fight corruption effectively. There are international examples of this. It is enough to look at the Romanian example, where a national anti-corruption prosecutor has been set up and corrupt politicians are held accountable and convicted with serious penalties. The opposition initiative, which would consider accession to the European Public Prosecutor's Office to be essential, is not appropriate or appropriate, because we should consider that OLAF, the European Union Anti-Fraud Office, has been able to investigate and fight corruption in Hungary in recent years. I think that OLAF has not been able to deliver significant results in recent years. Not only could he not contain it, but he could not prevent the spread of corruption and political crime at all. The Hungarian National Assembly therefore believes that it is acceptable and useful only if the Hungarian Parliament set up an independent and independent anti-corruption prosecutorship in Hungary. Therefore, the MiHazák Movement will fight with all possible means, so that this prosecutor's office can stand up, so that really independent, independent prosecutors with great expertise in criminal law and investigative law can fight corrupt politicians and finally put these people behind bars. [[15.10]] It is very important to mention that this would not be a one-man organization in our idea, but rather a council, a top foreign prosecutor's office, would provide the leadership of the Hungarian anti-corruption prosecutor's office, to which all opposition or all parties in the government could delegate members, so that it could be avoided that a person could have any influence on this organisation. Therefore, the Hungarian Movement will initiate a legislative amendment proposal, precisely so that corrupt politicians can receive their punishment, get behind bars, restore confidence and faith in politics, and not least the billions, the hundreds of billions that corrupt politicians have stolen from Hungarian taxpayers, can finally get the Hungarian workers back. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the independent.]]
u2018-12-03-194	Thank you, Congressman Philip Erik. Péter Ágh, representative of Fidesz, also applied for a post-scheduled speech on the anniversary of Celldömölk. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-12-03-195	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, One of the beautiful cities of my constituency is Celldömölk. It is located in the eastern part of Vas county, on Kemenesalya, next to the picturesque Ság mountain. Celldömölk will soon be preparing for a big anniversary, remembering that 40 years of being inaugurated to the city. On this occasion, I would also like to draw attention to the settlement here in the House of the country, in order to pay tribute to all those who, once and today, have made Celldömölk richer with their lives and work. His history goes a long way. Under the Árpád-house kings, Pordömölk lay here, where the abbey was functioning, which remains to be witnessed by the ruins. The flowering age of this monastery is XIV. Its estates spread far, and for some time it was a credible place, but later it began to decline. In addition to Pordömölk, Nemesdömölk is also an important component of the city, which has been made significant by religious reform movements. Though many plagues have beenfallen, he has come to life again. This shows that in 1744, his Lutheran church was completed, where several bishops were dedicated. Daniel Berzsenyi married here too. The foundation of this church was built in 1897. The third important place to highlight is Kiscell, or, as has been said for a long time, Kismariacell, if we look at the formation of today's Celldömölk. Its formation is linked to the name of Odo Koptik, who started building a church here through the statue of Mariazell in Austria. During the work of digging the well, a heavy stone fell on the well's head, believed to be dead, but recovered. With this wonderful incident, more and more pilgrims arrived. Celldömölk is still a beautiful sight of the Baroque church, where the statue of Mary is preserved, completed 270 years ago in the autumn of 1748. And in 1760 they started building the monastery. More and more people settled here, including German-speaking merchants, industrialists, and in 1790 they were granted four patents for fairs. In 1848, as in Sárvár, our later Martyr Prime Minister Lajos Batthyány was elected as MP in Kiscell. During dualism, the railway has made a major development opportunity, as several lines have reached it. During this period there were associations, gendarmes, tax offices, educational institutions and hospitals built from the donation of Sándor Felsőbüki Nagy. After Kiscell and Nemesdömölk were built, they created Celldömölk, which is the XX. During the trials of the century, he was always looking for the possibility of survival. In World War I, he sacrificed 81 of his sons. In 1934, the Trianon Memorial Cross will be built on Mount Ság, which is still the largest of such monuments. The Second World War, in addition to the lost soldiers, also affected the city's buildings. In 1950 Celldömölk was united with the ancient town of Alság, which is also famous for its prolonged presence as a parish priest Ferenc Kresznerics, the famous linguist, who is not forgotten by the Hungarians today. After the Second World War, the Berzsenyi Dániel High School was established, which is still significant for the future of young people in the region, along with the vocational training institution. I have only briefly listed some of the components that have contributed to the existence of basics that have enabled today's Celldömölk to come into existence. Soon the settlement will remember that it will be 40 years since it was inaugurated into a city. He then joined Isaac's tree. CHAPTER XXI In the first century, it is now found in the world of tourism by means of its bath and the Ság mountain. We have seen that for centuries there has always been something, someone who has moved the settlement forward. One thing, I think, was that for centuries, everyone who wanted to do something for Kemenesalja's heart was in common: they loved this place, and they knew that through their personal work their home would grow. Thank you for this to the former and present citizens of the city. For the Government of Hungary, the people of Celldömölk are important, so there is an opportunity for more development for the people who live here. I would just like to give a few examples: the Benedictine monastery has been renewed, a new clinic has been built, the Berzsenyi High School and the sports field have been renewed, a new basketball hall has been built, the table tennis hall is being built. A new part of the building was added to the Szent Benedek Primary School, new dental and protective nurses' offices, and the renovation of the railway station started, where P+R parking could be built. The park forest in Iszakfa was beautiful, and a sewage system was built on Isaac's tree. Applications offer the possibility of upgrading the state of the local market, touristic, kindergarten and nursery works, the development of the centre of the town of Alsóság and the rehabilitation of urban areas. Thank you to the government for this. With the greatest gratitude, however, we owe to the inhabitants of Celldömölk, who do the most for their hometown by educating their children with their daily work and local patriotism. Dear House, On the 40th anniversary of Celldömölk's inauguration, God bless all citizens of the city! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-03-196	Thank you very much, Congressman Peter Agh. Dear Parliament, Mr János Fónagy, Secretary of State, on behalf of Fidesz, also applied for a post- Agenda address: he died a hundred years ago with the title of Zsigmond Quittner. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-12-03-197	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Pest and Buda have a long history. The defining features of his cityscape are already the 18th. At the end of the 20th century, the 19th century The large constructions of the first half of the century predicted the emergence of the later large Budapest. Following the settlement, the transport revolution increased the city's role in the country's economic flow by building a railway network, and the accumulation of commercial capital opened the way for large-scale industrial development. Budapest, established after the city unification in 1872, took the form of a modern metropolitan city in the 1890s. As a result of the development, the population attraction of the capital has increased dramatically, which basically defined the urban development policy of the coming years. Budapest has developed on the basis of plans developed according to the needs of the era, in line with the requirements of civil Hungary in the capital. In 1872 the Metropolitan Council of Public Works prepared a plan for the settlement of the Pest side, based on which two new main roads were built, in 1874 the Pest Avenue, which was also the first European-class avenue to be held by Count Gyula Andrássy in 1874 and bearing his name today. Based on the settlement plan, the Grand Boulevard was opened to the public in 1896. The constructions have created new centers in Budapest, on the Pest side the Dunakorzó Palace series has been built, and several large buildings have been built. As a representative of this trend, Zsigmond Quittner, who died a hundred years ago, entered into the history of Budapest's architecture, who, as President of the Council of Central Public Works, the National Mediation Council, and then the Association of Hungarian Construction Artists, took a lion's share in the management of the capital and Hungary's centralizations. Zsigmond Quittner was born in 1857 in Budapest. He studied in the Munich Polytechnic, came home to Budapest in the early 1880s, where he won several design contests. His first significant work is the son orphanage of Andrássy út 111 of the Israeli community in Budapest, where today there is a house built according to the plans of Alfréd Hajós. Among the buildings more known to posterity, marked by the name of Zsigmond Quittner, the VI. District Fasori High School, fasori sanatorium was later the Home Office Hospital, then a few months later it was considered one of the most important locations of Hungarian literary life, and it is still known as the Central Coffee House and its building. [[15.20]] In 1889 the building of the Örökmozgó Film Theatre was handed over on the basis of its plans, and then the Palace of the Retirement Institute of the Journalists on the Street of Constitution. The architect completed the headquarters of the Budapest Rescue Association in 1890 under Markó utca 22-24, which still functions as the central building of the National Rescue Service. The Budapest VII. was built in 1891. Meteor Hotel, which hosted the district municipality, was also a guest of Endre Ady for a few months. Following the hands of Zsigmond Quittner and Ignác Alpár, the new headquarters of Hungary's first bank, the former Pest Hungarian Commercial Bank, was completed by 1905, in which the Ministry of the Interior of Hungary has been operating since 1950. As a work of Zsigmond Quitttner and the Vágó brothers, the construction of the London Gresham Life Insurance Company's headquarters in Budapest was completed in 1907, where the Four Seasons Hotel was built in 2004. On the ground floor, the former famous Gresham Café operated, where the art company called the Gresham Circle held its meetings. The Gresham Palace has been part of the World Heritage Site since 1987, along with many other buildings on the Danube. Zsigmond Quittner received the cross of the Order of Ferenc József for his architectural works designed for the Millennium Exhibition, and, in recognition of his achievements and building art in the field of public affairs, the architect born to the Jewish family received the title of Hungarian nobleman, to which the king gave the forename of Vágfalvi in 1905. Its resting place is located in Budapest in the Jewish cemetery on Salgótarján Road, which is currently being renovated by the government, and we hope that in the coming period Budapest will be one of the outstanding tourist and building arts [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] it will be available as a place of view. Thank you for your patience.
u2018-12-03-198	Thank you very much, Mr János Fónagy, Secretary of State. Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, also asked for an after-the-meet speech:. What is the Government waiting for, and why, with measures to ensure the remediation of the hazardous waste site in Kiskunhalas, which poses a serious health and environmental risk? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2018-12-03-199	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Before the change of regime in Hungary, many areas were contaminated by heavy industry, there were many areas where hazardous waste remained, and dangerous materials remained, which clearly endanger our environment. After the change of regime, a national remedial programme was launched to remedy these areas, which we know cost billions of HUF. Unfortunately, the remediation of these areas has slowed down during the Fidesz administration. We're not saying it didn't happen completely, but it's not going as fast as it should. Moreover, we also know that investments were generally carried out on green surfaces rather than being favoured by brownfield investments. Unfortunately, we've been getting complaints from a lot of people from a lot of places lately, which are exactly what they're saying is that they're already at risk in their immediate environment. These complaints concern the pollution of soil and natural drinking water and soil water in these areas. Sadly, we also know that the greatest danger of these inherited impurities is that they often remain hidden in the soil before the human eye and enter the groundwater. They become clear when they pose a direct threat to wildlife and human health. So something must be done here. However, it is particularly regrettable that such pollution occurred not only in the period before the regime change, but also in the period after the regime change. Unfortunately, this means that, in order to prevent them, the government is not doing the right job and is not fully responsible for the opinion of such requests. An example is large quantities of hazardous waste stored carelessly at the Kiskunhalas border. In fact, about 100-150 meters from Kiskunhalas, the homes, there is such a hazardous waste dump. I have recently been there personally, and I have seen with my own eyes that residues of paints, solvents, oils, hazardous medical wastes, laboratory chemicals are stored in damaged, cracked barrels and plastic containers completely irregular, without insulation on the bare ground. You could also see that some of the chemicals were released into the environment, and the rest is only a matter of time before what's still there gets out. We also know that the competent Lower Tisza Environmental Protection, Nature Protection and Water Inspectorate issued the permit in spite of protests from civil society organisations. The Decision concerned the collection and transport of more than 400 hazardous waste in quantities of tens of thousands of tonnes. Just a year later, at the beginning of 2011, the authority imposed a fine of more than HUF 85 million for irregular waste management, but this was not finally imposed on Bács-Reál Kft., only a warning was sent. However, the situation did not improve, so at the end of 2011, the environmental authority banned the company's further activities because of illegal waste storage. Even then, we know that such companies are very raffled and rubbed, in 2011 they changed the name of the company, and that the hazardous waste has been abandoned there for many years now. For many years, fines and lawsuits have followed each other, but we see that this is only a loss of time for the solution. We think, and we are sure that you cannot wait for the end of such a procedure, because during this time the cost of risks, damage and damage is greatly increased. The hazardous waste we can find on this site should be transported and disposed of immediately. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] So that the damaged barrels can no longer contaminate the environment. We are confident that the government will decide as soon as possible and take the necessary steps to remedy the damage.
u2018-12-03-200	Thank you, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck. Dear Parliament, Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, also applied for a post-meeting speech with the title "Afazia" in Hungary. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-12-03-201	[[It's a loudspeaker error.]] Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Aphasia is an unknown concept that we do very little at both lawmaking and government level. This means a brain injury that has a follow-up to communication problems in a particular patient, an aphasia, when it cannot speak or understand as it used to.
u2018-12-03-202	Excuse me, something's not working, or your microphone isn't your own. Your own? Are you sure? [[Péter Ungár: No. Congressman Harvester would have liked that. Defiance.]] Let's start over, Congressman.
u2018-12-03-203	Thank you very much. Thank you for your patience, and I apologize. So, aphasia is an unknown concept that we do very little at both lawmaking and government level. This means a brain injury that a patient cannot communicate, speak, understand, or write enough as a follow-up. At the same time, these thoughts remain within, so this does not represent a mental disability at any level. This is precisely why it is a psychologically very stressful state, also called the prison of the mute, because the patient is experiencing the same processes and thought processes as before his illness, but cannot communicate with the world. The fact is that this is an increasing problem in Hungary, as the number of cardiovascular diseases that may result in aphasic conditions is increasing, the most common are strokes and brain thrombosis, but there may be other causes. If paralysis affects the right side of the patient then the ability to speak, write, read, and count is significantly reduced. For the record, 42,000 patients with strokes are registered each year, and about 30 percent of these patients are not receiving any aphasia rehabilitation procedures. At present, only one serious institution in Hungary deals with such rehabilitation, this is the National Medical Rehabilitation Institute. In other hospitals, it is either not at all, or in very few hours of work it is possible to take advantage of a clinical speech therapist or neuropsychologist. [[15.30]] The fact is that these patients, because of a legal problem, if they get out of health care, do not count as patients if, for example, there is no physical or other symptom of aphasia after a thrombosis. This means that, let's say, the general physician can prescribe them a physical gymnasium or a medical massage, but it is almost impossible to prescribe a speech therapist's help in such a case. Rehabilitation, where appropriate, means several years. The EU standard is that two to three such professions should be provided for four to five years a week, but this is not available at all in Hungary. The ten- or twenty-hour state aid that you receive in total, and in most cases only if there is, therefore, a physical symptom, is not enough to allow someone, for example, to return to the labour market in some form. In addition, the social insurance company can only provide the speech therapist's classes for free through home care. In such cases, if there are several syndromes, the patient is forced to decide whether to use either the logistical help or other assistance that would come from the same source. In addition, there are very few logopesians in Hungary in absolute numbers, but most of these logopes try to earn money in other, more profitable ways, which is why they do not remain in the healthcare system. It's the Aphasia Association that can help these people. This was created by Zsuzsanna Dallos, a disabled person who also suffered a stroke, and since then it is his association that provides almost the most assistance to these people. From here, too, among the walls of Parliament, he must be thanked for the tireless years of work he has done. The fact is, although if the government had an answer to such a suggestion, it is true that it doubled the support of the Aphazia Association, it still means only HUF 7.4 million in 2018. It's a minimum annual amount. From this, this association is unable to finance, finance, or finance the occupations, nor have they even made a donation to a room that was not accessible, which means their office. The association has repeatedly turned to the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. The Commissioner for Fundamental Rights also said that it is not legal to have such significant differences between disability amounts. Furthermore, it is against the law that such problems of adults are not included in the implementation, which is regulated by law. The fact is, therefore, that there is a very serious shortage in a legislative provision that this House could remedy in order to help tens of thousands of Hungarians; a shortage that makes it impossible for these people to have a decent life, to return to the labour market, or to live in a way that we would like in a strong Hungary. And although there is this association, which has done a very important job, and we would like to thank Zsuzsanna Dallos once again for his work, it should not only be his work, but also the Hungarian government's. Thank you very much.
u2018-12-03-204	Thank you, Congressman Péter Ungár. Dear Parliament, Ami, today was not mentioned in House T, and he was supposed to speak on the agenda with a title to it, György László Lukács, representative of Jobbik. You have the floor, Congressman, within a five-minute time frame.
u2018-12-03-205	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, The UN declared 3 December a World Day for people with disabilities in 1992. All this to draw attention to the problems of our fellow humans who have become disabled in accidents, diseases, or disasters. It should therefore also be pointed out today what it means to live and work with a disabled family, because this is the day when we can stop for at least one day and remember the problems of this social class, this social part. The challenge posed by this problem and the extent to which the situation of people with disabilities affects society, the 2016 microcensus has been able to roughly identify in a 408 thousand people who, on the basis of self-religion, regard themselves as disabled persons and those who treat their relatives as disabled persons. What this means in distribution is 4.3 percent of the population. Among them, the largest group is the disabled, they are 190,000 on the basis of self-receiving, while the weak-sighted are nearly 70,000, and there are 55,000 hearingers. The fact that we are talking about this group with a wide variety of disabilities may not be right, so I thought that I would like to show a few problems, life-like problems, where society is in contact with the problem or not at all, and you do not know how difficult this life situation is. As one of the health representatives, he feeds on a personal request. Few would think the difficulty of a disabled child's health care when it comes to a dentist. We all know that I think that a large majority of the population are reluctant to attend dentists, so people with disabilities are no different. They simply have them, and intellectually disabled people may have even more fear, even more suspicion of dentistry and dental care. They are very often suffering significantly more disadvantages than the normal population. Their services are very difficult to use in very few places, and there have been a number of restructurings that have made their use almost impossible in recent years. There was a very touching case on the Internet in which the mother showed the doorman carrying the disabled child, because the child dentist was transferred to a place where she was being treated, which had no accessible entrance, so the children who had been called for treatment had to be brought up in hand to the family members or the doorman, and this went on for a long time at this dental care facility. This is just one that shows how difficult life is in this area and for social workers who deal with these problems. The other problem is the issue of professional quality. In many cases, this has happened in the sector rather than finding a complex solution to the problem of people with disabilities, usually responding by firing, pooling or simply allowing one of the worst paid social workers to be forced to work in this area. In addition to the debate, workers in the social sector can expect the worst wages in the national economy. So, very often, they answered problems by firing them instead of rethinking them. There is also the question of disinheritment, which has already been mentioned in the House today, but has not been fully affected. The ejection was obviously created to place a large institution, where under not very cultural conditions, people with disabilities could be crowded into a more human environment. I would like to point out that Jobbik is in favour of this if it is not psychiatric care. It is very simple to say why: very often patients treated in psychiatric institutions move out among the inhabitants of the city. This has happened otherwise, or it will happen in Bishop's Lady or Elek. In these settlements, there are often people who are punished or who cannot be punished who spend their forced medical treatment there as a quasi-punished treatment, otherwise because they are vulnerable to society and to themselves and to the public. Disinheriting such persons might be worth avoiding. The institution of ejection would not be bad, but these motivations or guiding principles behind it do not help at all to improve the situation. And in a final sentence, let us also remember those who give hope to society, for among those with disabilities we have excellent fellow humans. He was disabled, like Frida Kahlo, Stephen Hawking, Beethoven. I think they give us all hope, for people with disabilities and for family members who care for them, that yes, we can achieve results, yes, society, as we do now, full and respected members. These issues will also need to be discussed and discussed in the near future. And one last sentence, Mr President, should be considered on how to ensure their voting rights to the disabled. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] That's another huge expectation. Thank you very much for your patience. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[15.40]]
u2018-12-03-206	Thank you, Congressman László György Lukács. Dear Parliament, Mr Zoltán Magyar, Member of the Jobbik Group, also applied for a post-scheduled speech with the title "Hungarian Zoltán" or "Hungarian Robbery." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-12-03-207	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! I have had the pleasure of attending a book presentation last Friday, and I would like to give you a very brief account here, because I believe that there was a lesson in this book presentation among the walls of the Parliament. It is about Endre Tanka's work: The land issue of our time, the stakes of our existence, or his easy to interpret as a subtitle: Land robberies appeared in the world and in the title of Hungarian Earth Protection, and, by the way, this work was presented at a conference organised by the advocate of future generations and the Association of Hungarian Nature Protectors, where in his own presentation, the prominent representatives of many other areas confirmed the validity, importance and all the lessons that I believe it would be important for the decision makers here in Parliament to bear in mind. I'd like to start with what the organizers wrote about the book as a pep talk, because it sums up what's important here. The aim of the conference is to present Endre Tanka's book, and in this context to a brief conference about the two topics by renowned co-rapporteurs. In today's global crisis of civilization, the common possession of land, fresh water and local energy sources is a condition of survival. The global capital concentration is part of the effort to ensure that capital holders have exclusive control over the monopoly on world food. This requires the acquisition of the earth. The lecturers of the book and the conference deal with the institutional system of land grabbing, in particular with regard to the relationship between the European Union and national regulations. The most serious, life-destructive consequence of this process is the permanent destruction of the soils. A drastic decrease in the amount of land and a deterioration in the quality of land above the critical point cause unreplaceable soil degradation. The second part of the conference is therefore about the dramatic fate of Hungarian soil and earth protection, the institutional requirements of the radical turnaround, and the new national strategy and professional solutions in this area. I would also like to mention rapporteurs who, as I said, supported the book in their own field of expertise. Gyula Bándi, spokesperson for future generations from whom I would like to quote; Mihály Kurucz Head of Department, ELTE Faculty of State and Law; Gergely Tóth Head of Department, University of Pannonia, Research Centre for Agricultural Sciences; Zsolt Hetesi, senior research fellow, Institute for Sustainable Development Studies at the National University of Public Service; Judit Pump, Chief Advisor, Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights; Róbert Fidrich, a programme organizer within the framework of the Association of Hungarian Nature Protectors. They, as I mentioned, have added their own insights, and unfortunately we have not become much happier or more optimistic about it after they have expressed their views on how much to do and how badly we are on these issues. After all, capital, through the acquisition of natural property, exercises control over society as a whole, and even beyond its own property. However, we believe that these issues, which are also very important in national security, should be decided by local communities. We have talked here among the walls of the House, but not enough about food self-determination, food safety in this context, or, for example, that according to the most optimal estimates, the soils of our country will be completely inadequate to produce food on them in about 60 years' time if we continue to use these agrotechnologies, or if the result of different environmental impacts continues to move in this direction. So we have a lot of work to do here as decision makers and we have to take it seriously. The so-called land robbery, which is the most important one in the book, is that, if we look at it territorially, about 60 percent of the world is falling on the African continent, and it is worth considering that the current migration crisis, which, unfortunately, is likely to fail in our lives, is very much related, for example, to this land-robbing issue, that people who live there cannot manage their own homeland. But it is also interesting to mention that, for example, the European Union itself has three serious documents and studies, and I will add them to my written question on the following subject. Some say, for example, that the European Union's support policy and regulatory systems practically promote and support the kidnapping. And unfortunately, our country is no exception, but I don't want to give you names and examples here, because they would think they were very politicized. So there are a lot of things that make me recommend this book to your attention, and I hope that we will then be able to make more responsible decisions in this context. Thank you for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-12-03-208	Thank you, Congressman Zoltán Magyar. Dear Parliament, Mr Ander Balázs, Member of the Jobbik Group, also spoke after the agenda: Roma integration on Gypsy Road. Or why is the proportion of early school leavers among Gypsy youths 63%? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-12-03-209	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a nightmare. This is all about the fact that the elegant, peripheral districts, which slowly and slowly connect in certain regions of Hungary and form entire regions, disappear into the vortex of social collapse as a sinking Atlantis. If we look at the processes that work, we must say that cultural, economic and social collapse will occur in these ethnic constraints. Let's see what these processes are like. On the one hand, there is a population explosion in the unintegrated part of Gypsy. We know that those of the Roma who are integrated are integrated, in many cases producing birth patterns similar to those of the majority society, but there is a huge population explosion among those who do not fit in, it is enough to refer to the work and investigations of the research group of the University of Debrecen. The János Pénzéses clearly demonstrated that in the last 20 or so years, their ratio here in Hungary has increased by 2.5 times. This is very rude if we also look at the fact that in 1893 there were sixty-one thousand Gypsy compatriots living in the territory of truncated Hungary. If we add to this what kind of disintegration processes work, say, in the field of education, it becomes legal that this disaster will happen, because according to the latest survey of the KSH, the proportion of early school leavers among young Gypsies aged 18-24 is 63 percent. This is shocking; we can also add that this ratio was also high in 2014, but it was lower: it stood at 57 per cent, so the deterioration has clearly been observed in the last few years. It is no coincidence that the employment rates of gypsy men are at 45 percent, compared to the 80 percent level before the regime change, which was the same as that of the majority society, is an incredibly bad result, and 58 percent of those who work for them are obviously forced to work for low wages in unskilled jobs. If we want to do something about this situation, and we do want to do something about it, then we need to be aware of some axioms. One of these basic phrases is that Article 21 The most important national issue of the century in Hungary will be the integration of Gypsyism. Then it is also an axiom for us, let us say, before we said it, as Viktor Orbán realized, but in this he is exceptionally right that the politically correct way of speaking is the most obvious instrument of spiritual repression. We do not want to live with it, nor do we want to adapt to it, and that is why we also say what Ferenc Glatz said: it is not because of prejudice that Gypsy issues are in Hungary, but because of the unresolved problems of living together. And we, in a responsible manner, must also deal with these issues here in Parliament, as the social calm of the near future largely depends on whether, by the way, we are able to lift, integrate, and integrate those broken social layers into the fabric system of society, who, as it stands, have escaped from their own faults or from all social errors, government failures. [[15.50]] It is very important to prevent parallel societies from being established in Hungary, including, where appropriate, no-go zones, where there are completely different laws than those which should prevail here in Central Europe. The responsibility is plural. Obviously, there is a state responsibility, the state has a huge role to play when taking preventive, intervention or compensatory measures, in order to make enough money for example, there is enough resources available for schools in Hungary that fill a huge gap. When we see the government spending 2.5 billion on this in the 2019 budget, we are pleased, but we also add that this will be a little too small for the weight of the problem. And it must also be said that it is not just a matter of public responsibility, but there is also the responsibility of the individual, which is often silenced, because no one beats the book out of these young people's hands, no one stops the school gate from them, so that they should be able to rise up and integrate. It should also be borne in mind that concepts such as responsible childbearing are not from the devil, since the cumulative reproduction of poverty will cause a total social disaster. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Thank you for your patience and attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-12-03-210	Thank you, Congressman Ander Balázs. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, also applied for a post-the-meet speech:. How long? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-12-03-211	Mr President, Dear House, In the weeks when state aid for housing savings was taken away, the cafeteria for housing mobility was dismantled, and by the rape of the Labour Code it is likely that working people can spend less time with their families, if time is based on it, it is worth doing a fundamental and profound demographic survey, a kind of deep drilling. For this, the publication "Demographic Portrait" is an excellent help every three years. Since we are typically talking about CSF measurements, it is very difficult to dispute the reality behind the numbers. According to last year's final data, 91 577 children were born in Hungary, and the birth rate has basically stagnated since 2014. I would like to point out that between 2000 and 2009, the number of live births varied between 95 and 100 thousand each year, and after the non-privileged Balliberal governments, between 2010 and 13 there was a real deep flight with live birth data of less than 90 thousand, after which this data crawled back somewhat. But it seems that he could not reach close to 100,000, although the fertility rate was undoubtedly increasing, and I welcome this from 1,24 to roughly 1,49, while the number of women of childbearing age was so rapid that it could not peak in the rise in the number of live births, and even the number of live births decreased. The increase in fertility rates, as I said, is welcome, but at the same time, if we look at the former socialist countries within the EU, after the change of method, each of them experienced a dramatic fall in birth rates, with fertility rates below 1.3, but, interestingly, with the exception of Hungary, the number of live births has risen everywhere. In Hungary, this had to wait around until the 2010s, so to speak, we caught up with this regional, somewhat international trend. That's what demographers call a replacement, which happened in our country with a little delay, but fortunately it happened. At the same time, it is worth examining these countries in the region, which are ahead of us in quotes. We find that, unfortunately, in many countries, there has not been a lasting increase in fertility rates, and therefore we in Hungary should adopt measures, I think, on the basis of a consensus of all parties, which will make these, let us say, only partial results, since they can only slow down a little at the rate of falling; in terms of the number of live births either, but at least in terms of the fertility index. It is also necessary to examine trends in Europe. Population performances close to reproduction can be seen in the Scandinavian countries, France, Great Britain, but at the same time it is worth drawing the balance of migration from these results and examining the data on their own. The other dimension is clearly led by the countries of southern Europe, where we are witnessing an amazing population disaster. In Italy, it is also known that there is a region around 1, or 1, where there is an average number of children per woman's life cycle. This could mean halving the population in one generation. In Hungary, it is also worth examining whether the Orbán government's calculations have worked. When I say no, I am clearly suggesting that with the CSOK and other discounts they tended to prefer the upper middle class, however, while the number of graduates has increased by 10 percent over the last few years, the maternity mood of graduates, as regards the living births they produced, has not increased at all. There is a minimum of 4 percent increase here for a 10-percent social group, because, fortunately, a degree is not an age specific, so this social base can be increased. At the same time, we can also see that there has been a significant increase in the number of women with a maximum of eight generals, typically in the poorest parts of the country. So, when we propose to reduce housing poverty, to bring the VAT content of child rearing articles down to a tolerated level, but to a maximum of 5 per cent, we also propose that it be decided not in Hungary within the framework of social backgrounds and not within groups selected and benefiting from different governments, where more children can be born or not, but rather that the Hungarian working people living on the average should be able to take the desired children, not to emigrate them and raise them in Hungary with honor. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-12-03-212	Thank you, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Dear Parliament, László Hajdu, a representative of DK, also applied for a post-meeting speech with the title "The Reformed Church in Pestújhely" being inaugurated 90 years ago. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-12-03-213	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Yesterday was the first Sunday of Advent, they lit the first candles on the advent wreath. This happened in Rákospalota, Pestújhely and New Palota. There are 16 churches in our district, each celebrating the advent in some way. However, a church, the church in Pestújhely, celebrated many other things. On this day, on the Sunday of advent and on December 2, 90 years earlier, this church was consecrated. It's a coincidence that I've been a member of this congregation for decades, and I'm talking about my own congregation and church here, above all, for the sake of the record. I would like to mention that this church is 90 years old, not extraordinary, because in my district there is a 260-year-old church. The extraordinary meaning here is that when Nagy-Budapest was created, Pestújhely did not exist yet. Until 1867, this was a military training ground, so to speak, until the 1867 settlement, they were literally conducting military exercises here, there was no building here, there was only a field. It belonged to cancer palace administratively. Crab Palota was a large village. Even what we know today as Újpest did not exist, it was also the administrative area of Rákospalota, and the Danube was the border of Rákospalota on that side. But there was a valuable part in today's Pestújhely with the construction of new railways, in a very valuable area between the Pest-Vác railway, the Veresegyháza railway line and the Miskolc railway. In today's word, as a plot speculation on some 204 cadastral moons, this was the unit of the earth, the data used was parceling, and the military was the owner of this, and the military and law firms decided that this would no longer be a field of practice. They did the land distribution, and during the land distribution, they made sure that there was a church, where there was a service room, where there were streets, squares. [[16.00]] So, as an administrative owner of the area, Rákospalota almost didn't know about it. Some Members, of course, do. This is how it was created, 120 years ago, just this year, when the first plots, so-called cottages, were given in the name of a holiday home for the better in Budapest, in exchange for an allowance, it was obviously not a free distribution. I would also like to remember that 120 years ago those brave founders, Nándor Bezsilla, were the lawyer, and today they are the heroes of Pestújhely, the statues and memorial signs. Back in the day, I remember when I looked at the administrative records in Crab Palota, they were very reprehensible battles. By separating this area, Pestújhely became a separate settlement in 1909 by declaring the former military practice area, which was built as a holiday home, a separate village and settlement. The founders, therefore, are Bezsilla, lawyer, István Szűcs, colleague of the Ministry of Interior, Péter Gerecze, archaeologist, who searched the military practice area and did excavations, and Dr. József Antall's father, the late Prime Minister's father, was the founder. These are the four people who created Pestújhely 120 years ago. On the first Sunday of Advent, we celebrated the 90th birthday of our church and the 120th anniversary of the distribution of Pestújhely's land and the launch of the life of the settlement. Thank you for listening.
u2018-12-03-214	Thank you, Congressman László Hajdu. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next autumn session is expected to take place on 10 December 2018. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed.
