u2018-10-30-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 14th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and Gergely Arató will be in charge of the meeting to assist me. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Zita Gurmai, Member of the Hungarian Socialist Party, applied for a pre-meeting address with the title "The Appreciation of Women." You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2018-10-30-1	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Gentlemen. From 1 November, European women could stop working, because from this day forward we work for free, based on the differences in pay between women and men, an average Hungarian woman earns almost two months less a year. Women's salaries in December and November will be taken away by worse wage bargaining positions, opaque work salaries, vulnerability and structural shifts in the labour market. That is why the European Socialists announced the European equal pay day by 31 October. I am almost sure that the ministerial response will say that the pay gap in Hungary is not in the widest statistical sense, and that this is a problem that other countries are also struggling with. With time and patience, it's usually the typical answer, and then we get to the point that these problems are going away. This answer, gentlemen, you've been listening to it all over the world for almost 40 years, and we're tired of it. The usual answer will not be enough for you here today. The pay gap between men and women is not just about numbers. The term "the pay gap" itself expresses the difference between a woman's salary and a man's salary in the same job, but this number is only the tip of the iceberg. It is necessary to eliminate the need for a woman to make a significantly greater sacrifice in her career than in a man's; to ensure generous sick leave for both sides of a child; to strive to stop the growing up of entire professions, while to inspire women in other areas in their professional development; to appoint female leaders. Your government has done nothing in the past but impose additional burdens on poorer families and especially on poorer women. This government is the government of disintegration. Gentlemen. Your government is not even willing to face the scale of the problem. In June, I and my colleague, Lajos Korózs, presented a proposal for a resolution, which modestly would only have provided for a first-round health check, an analysis of the situation. You're surprised you haven't heard from him, aren't you? Well, that's because, from the Prime Minister's Office, hand-led pro-government representatives have already voted off the agenda in the relevant commission, even though I did not propose the resettlement of migrants or the dismantling of stadiums, just that the Parliament calls on the government to assess the economic, structural and social causes of gender pay differences. What I can tell you is that if we look at why it doesn't include positions of high status where we find women, then the problem is that such a comparison doesn't exist, because women are only appointed at the cost of much greater individual victims. These include, for example, business leaders, decision-makers of the Academy or any other leading positions that are important for society. I don't mention the lack of women in politics anymore, I'm in Parliament with a tenth of what I'm trying to say to half of society and to represent our problems while listening to your empty speeches on this subject. The problem we are facing, which we are drawing attention to on 31 October, gentlemen, is the economic dependence of women, an dependence that is more significant for structural and exterminable reasons, to a greater extent than that of men. The difference in pay exists because a woman today is more risky than a man, and it is more risky because she has all the unpaid and unexpected work to do with the family and the household. If a government, unlike your government, is truly determined to eliminate women's economic dependence, it supports family support and employee policies. There is a need to support a proportionate distribution of housework and child rearing burden, rather than ordering women into the kitchen. I'm hopeful. I hope, for the third time, that if we try the resolution proposal again, there will be a willingness in Parliament to at least debate it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-10-30-2	Thank you, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2018-10-30-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, He spoke on an important subject, but there was a great deal of untruth in it that had to be corrected. You have said that there is no comparison that accurately reflects the situation of women in the labour market or the employment of women, and their conditions of employment compared with men. That is not true, Madam honourable Member, there is a comparison. There is no comparison that would show that anything would have gone better during the socialist period. All comparisons show that the situation of women under Fidesz-KDNP is far more advantageous than it was during socialist governance. You may be talking about this subject, but your actions were exactly the opposite. When the socialists governed Hungary, the employment rate of women aged 1564 years, i.e. the employment rate of women of active age was 49.8 percent, less than 50 percent. Today, it is 62.5 percent, with more than 12.5 percent higher employment rates for women now, under the Fidesz-KDNP government than under the socialist government, Fidesz-KDNP could offer women more jobs than the socialists in eight hours jobs, whether in part-time jobs or in telework jobs. If we look at the gender pay gap, we can also see that socialist governance is far worse for women than for Fidesz-KDNP, because the difference in wages is 3.6 percent, almost 4 percent higher for Hungarian women than for Fidesz-KDNP, so women of active age are far better off not only in terms of location but also in terms of wages when there is Fidesz-KDNP governance. If we look at the consequences of this, the difference in pensions, we can also see that women are 2.7 percent better off compared to men in a relative comparison than when there is a socialist government, because at a time of socialists, women of pension age are 2.7 percent worse than men. [[9.10]] Not to mention what women get from a socialist prime minister in rhetoric and terms, I quote Ferenc Gyurcsány and his respect for women: who has an old, old wife would like the younger. This was the Prime Minister's rhetoric, and the figures mentioned above were the facts of what the government did next to one another, both in employment and in wages and in pensions, women would be in a relatively worse situation if there were socialist governance. Whatever nice words are spoken by socialist representatives in Budapest or in Brussels about this, when they act, women are put in a worse position. However, as of 1 January 2012, we have laid down in the new Fundamental Law the equality of men and women, and even in the Fundamental Law, which you have not expressly supported, we have stated that women can be discriminated positively with specific measures. And there is one, the Women 40, which you and Jobbik are constantly attacking. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] and this positive discrimination against women would be eliminated, Jobbik might also collect signatures to prevent women from being in a better position. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: You didn't ask for that!]] in connection with the pension rules of the Women's 40, you are also attacking this rule, even though we have established a basic legal basis for this. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: Why are you lying? Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] exactly what you are saying, Congresswoman, that mothers are more burdened in practice with regard to raising a child, which is why, in order to compensate for this, we recognize this in the retirement rules. [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] and we say that not after 40 years of employment, but after up to eight years of child rearing and forty years of employment, [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] and we say that not forty years of employment, but even eight years of child rearing and forty years of employment (sic!) women can retire (Zsolt Gréczy intervenes) This is to recognise the additional performance that women do in raising children on two scenes, both at work and at home. In addition to the Women 40, the job protection action plan, the ged extra, the nursery development or the child's additional leave will all help to promote women's economic activity or increase women's employment or increase their level of payment. Women in the family and at work: this is what you have been talking about, honourable Member. For this special purpose, for this special life situation, we have created women's career points from a budget of HUF 14 billion across the country, with a total of 71 such women's careers, more than 50 have already started working, precisely so that in this situation we can help these women, these mothers not only with higher employment, not only with tax reductions, not only with wage increases, but also with personal counselling. I ask that you support these proposals and do not attack them here in Parliament. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Women are certainly better off with Fidesz-KDNP governance than with socialist governance. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-30-4	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Imre László, from the DK Group, also asked for a speech before the agenda:. The financing crisis in health with the responsibility of the Orbán Government. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-10-30-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I know it's not a nice tune for your ears that there's not enough money in health care, but it's not enough. The amount per capita is less than half of the EU average and has been declining since 2010 in terms of GDP. Among OECD countries, Hungary spends the least on health care systems in proportion to the total public expenditure. This is the case even if László Domokos, who became the SAO president, discussed that the management of hospitals can only be characterised by anarchy, chaos and scandal. It turned out, of course, that Mr Domokos was only used as a forerunner for the programme presented by the government a few days later, according to which health care is not underfunded. Since then, we also know that the government's budget deficit, which has run away from pre-election large-scale spending of money and the suspension of the payment of EU funds during the investigation of obscene downfalls, forces the government to impose drastic restrictions. You don't like to call that name, but as we know, you don't have to look at what they say, you have to look at what they're doing. Obviously, austerity is far from over, and it will inevitably reach health care, so money is expected to be even less. Yet, I will not just talk about the lack of money, but, above all, about why and by what. When we converted to performance-based funding for health care in 1993, a so-called expenditure survey was carried out. Some steps in health interventions have been taken into account and priced. The cost of one intervention consists of 30-40 or more items. Finally, the price list did not include the sum of the forints of each of the interventions, but a ratio, as to how the cost is related to a fixed amount of HUF called weight. Later, the value of this weight was then increased to the necessary extent, in view of the accumulation of hospital debts. Of course, structural changes in health costs cannot be taken into account as the costs of individual components do not necessarily vary to the same extent. In short, without the maintenance of certain elements of the initial expenditure assessment, the system over time developed internal distortions that drastically ripped the calculated costs away from the real ones. Until 1999, the Healinginfos operated by Dr. István Bordás in Szekszárd completed the maintenance of the cost elements annually, but the first Orbán government that took office stopped this. Between 2008 and 2010, the Gyurcsány and Bajnai governments attempted to renovate it, but after the change of government, Fidesz buried it again. The constantly renewable debt of health institutions is therefore not the result of a lack of management discipline, but of low funding and distortion of the internal components of the system. The actual costs of an investigation or intervention are no longer related to the amount the Treasury pays for it. The institutions pay for the care of almost every patient. And on this, as the example of the institutions clearly proves, the planned chancellors to be sent out will not be able to help. The solution is not that the government, as a generous father, who stands up for the waste of his prodigal son, sometimes reaches into his pockets, more precisely in the pockets of taxpayers, and settles debts with a gesture intended for the generous, but by abandoning their practice so far, which has consistently prevented the assessment of real costs. Instead, it is necessary to repeat the completely outdated expenditure survey today, to maintain its components annually taking into account inflation, and to provide an adequate level of funding on this basis. I ask you: when will the government finally take the necessary steps, based on what has been said? I look forward to your reply with respect. [[9.20]]
u2018-10-30-6	Thank you, Congressman Imre László. Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, will respond to what has been said on behalf of the Government.
u2018-10-30-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Each country, every government, strives to spend more years on people's health, spends more years each year funding the health system, hospitals, clinics, general practitioners, nurses and anyone else responsible for the health, health and healing of people. There are governments that can solve this from the budget, such as the Fidesz-KDNP government, as we now spend HUF 648 billion more on hospitals, medical clinics and basic care, and there are some who want to sabotage citizens. Such was the former MSZP-SZDSZ government, the Gyurcsány government, which wanted to introduce a visitation fee and hospital daily, in order, on the one hand, for patients to pay daily for care, so that patients would pay for all medical visits, and, on the other hand, to keep poor people away from health care, to keep them away from the general doctor, to keep them away from the hospital, and not to have patients, not to sign up for interventions, because they would be kept away from the visit fee and hospital daily. Your innovative attitude was reflected in the fact that you said that you could pay the visit fee via text, mobile phone, and how good a world it will be when people will pay the visit fee by text and cell phone. He didn't say to open up health care to the public, he said to pay, not only in cash, but also in mobile phones, via text. And he also said that for two months there would still be controversial, loud patients, which would take a while, and then they would get used to the salary. This rhymes with the sentence of Ferenc Gyurcsány when he said after the autumn speech that people would protest at Kossuth Square and then go home. And you said you'd be arguing for two months, making noise, and then getting used to paying. This shows where the parallel thinking is among DK's politicians, and why you're the one who came into Parliament. Visitor fee vending machines, mobile payment, that would have been your proposal, and we had the 648 billion forints that increased healthcare expenses and opportunities. Most of this is in medical wages, in wages that have increased by HUF 207 thousand in terms of gross basic wage over two years, or in nursing wages that are doubled between 2012 and 2019, and in these four years, they increase by 65 percent. We have also spent a lot of time on this, and we have, of course, spent a lot on renovating rural hospitals or even building new clinics. You know, you know, we've renovated 77 hospitals in whole or in part, we've upgraded 54 clinics and 104 rescue stations, and we've created a whole new 23 clinics and 31 new rescue stations. [[Dr. Imre László: Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State.]] Thank you to the people, honourable Member. I don't think you should be snotty when it comes to people's health, although your government has done it, but should talk about people's health with more respect. You talked about how much money is spent, how much is spent on health care and how much is not spent in total in Hungary. If you're looking at the V4 countries, according to the OECD publication Health at Glance, you're saying that we're translating the least in the OECD. Well, 7.6 percent is the Hungarian expenditure value, 7.3 is the Czech, 6.9 is the Slovak and 6.4 is the Polish expenditure value. Obviously, you can say that the total cost of health is at the lowest level, only higher than the level of the other three Visegrad countries. Our task is that if the amount of HUF 648 billion is a huge sum, each year we spend more on health care than we spent in 2010 than we did in 2010 each year, then this must be a visible result in everyday life of the patients. We have the surplus, we have the extra payment from the budget, but we do not see that people everywhere say that they actually see this surplus. That is why the examination of the State Audit Office was also important. Honourable Congressman, You said it doesn't matter how a hospital manager works, works better or worse, conscientiously or less conscientiously, either way, he's going to build up a huge debt. And we say it doesn't matter how a hospital director works. This is why we have launched a mapping of hospital management conditions, which not only examines the management of hospitals that accumulate the largest debt, because we have not launched this investigation for the purpose of punishment, but we are also looking at the internal operation of the hospitals that are the best in the economy. And if we can see who is the best farmer and who is the worst farmer and what is the difference between the two, then we can give examples to the other nearly 100 hospitals, and we can create a good management system, so that those who do it well, for whom it works, how can we help those who are behind. This is our vision for the use of additional resources. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-30-8	Thank you, Secretary of State of Rétvári. Dear Parliament, Tamás Mellár, representative of the Dialogue, also applied for a speech before the agenda. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-10-30-9	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I would like to apologize to you for bringing the CEU case before this House once again. I know I've talked about this before, but we have to talk about it, because the case has not come to a standstill yet, there is no solution in this case, the government has not signed with the State of New York the cooperation agreement that the CEU desperately needs, and without it it will not be able to operate legally in Hungary from 1 January next year. That is why he decided that if the signature did not happen by 1 December, he would start moving out to Austria. The government hasn't settled this case in 550 days. First, he tricked the university, then kept it uncertain, disheartened the candidates to this university, and built up blackmail potential. Thus, CEU is in an emergency situation, and it really needs to take this step. And the authorities would most likely be able to rub their hands with satisfaction, because that's what they wanted, they expected the CEU to leave on its own, and to say that it was their decision, and you were washing your hands, just as Pilate was washing his hands about Jesus at the time. After that, the kind of policy that is about not being an important issue is not a cardinal issue. Yesterday, we heard from Secretary of State Rétvári why CEU is hurting us, because CEU is not only a very valuable and very good university in Hungary, but also Hungarian universities, they are also on the various rankings. It is certainly true that these rankings include Hungarian universities, but if you look at them, there is only one ranking of all rankings in which there is the first 500 Hungarian universities, the University of Szeged is on the ranking list of the QS in the 470th place. By the way, the Corvinus University is among the 801-1000th place, the University of Technology is also the same place, my favorite university where I teach, the University of Pécs is 701-750th place, so we can't even reach the place that is the age of the university. The university is 650 years old now, compared to that, we're in 750th place. At the same time, if you look at the CEU in any ranking, it is definitely included in the first 200. So I think there's value there that should be supported. Then Mr Retvári even said that we are protecting foreign interests by trying to support the CEU. But I ask you, Hungarian students who want to study at a good university, if they can study at home, do not have to go abroad, why it is of foreign interest. According to the latest surveys, every second Hungarian student said that he wanted to go abroad to get a degree. If we can protect some of this, then I think it would be good if the young people stayed home. Then what college teachers are we talking about? I only know the economics part. There they are taught by world-famous people such as Botond Kőszegi, László Mátyás, Miklós Koren, Albert László Barabási, who could work at any leading western university and whose publication list alone is more than the relevant publication results of all Hungarian universities. It's a value that should be preserved. Minister Palkovic said that the CEU is not really moving, only a small part of it is going to Vienna. But this is not the case, because four of the five major programmes belong to the CEU, so if the CEU moves, most of them will obviously move. [[9.30]] Obviously, Mr Secretary of State will talk about many things in his reply, but there is one thing I would like to ask of him. Be so good, tell me one thing: which paragraph of the Higher Education Act is the law that the CEU is not fulfilling, which is why you are not signing it. If you do this, Mr State Secretary, I promise you that I will never bring up the CEU case again, and I will even encourage everyone in private conversations to accept that the law applies to everyone and that we will not talk about the CEU case again. Just please, this one thing, please, tell me so I know what this is about. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-10-30-10	Thank you, Congressman Tamás Mellar. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári will respond.
u2018-10-30-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You're making politics of the Soros University on purpose. Which legislation should be applied? You know it very well, because here on Parliament's table is already the fourth international agreement, which sets out exactly what conditions must be met. You have seen that there are universities that want to comply with this, and there are universities that want to rewrite the laws, as György Soros thanked Magyar Bálint, we can remember years ago that they thank the lex CEU, in which the CEU received additional licenses and privileges in Hungary. It is no longer the privilege to live on, it is not the privilege of the Soros University, but the same rules that all other foreign and Hungarian universities operating in Hungary must comply with. The same should be done to CEU, the Soros University. What we see is that some of our fellow Members do not seem to trust that from 2022 the electorate will send them back to Parliament and therefore seek their new place now; we do not know whether for a daily allowance or just for a favor, but they will speak in the interests of George Soros and the University of Soros, so that they can continue their activities there, from. Some run into ministries and ask for documents, some upload videos, but everyone tries to secure their new job in one of the segments of the Soros empire from 22 onwards. [[There's a lot of noise in the opposition benches.]] We trust the Hungarian electorate, we govern and make decisions to preserve the confidence of the Hungarian electorate. You are living with rhetoric, taking measures to gain access to George Soros's trust. Well, let each of you go your own way, Your Honour. Like I said, four other universities were able to live up to that because they wanted to live up to it, the Soros University doesn't want to live up to it. The reason why a political bluff is their current announcement is because they want to use it as a direct political capital, and they want to provide a new basis for Hungary's demise. This is a university with 1600-1700 students, compared with hundreds of thousands of 500 thousand Hungarian university citizens, so it represents an extremely small part of Hungarian higher education. Yet you are throwing in and embarrassing the entire Hungarian higher education just for the sake of the Soros University. They deny all the results, all the places in the international rankings that the other Hungarian universities occupy, only and only to make political capital out of it. As I said, the other universities managed to comply with Hungarian law. Moving out is obviously not a transfer of instructors and students, but a transfer of graduations, American-accredited degrees or a transfer of training there. As they said, they stay in the buildings, they don't move out of either building, they stay in the tutors, they stay in the library, they stay in the students. The only thing that matters at the moment is the political bluff and the political bluff for the CEU, and obviously it will also do in the next period. You said that CEU is leading in certain rankings. Well, the Soros University does lead in certain rankings, such as Horizon 2020, in the ranking of EU grants, with EUR 14 billion. He's not even around 1.2 billion at Corvinus University. For example, the Soros University received 12 times as much support from Horizon 2020 as it received from Corvinus University, and by far it precedes all other Hungarian universities. It also shows that this is a business model. In Hungary, an American diploma is issued and EU funding is requested. There are two entities, a Hungarian entity, the Central European University, and a non-Hungarian but international entity, CEU, because it is not possible to require European Union support for the CEU's American-accredited diploma, but it is possible to require European Union support for the operation of the Central European University, and György Soros obviously, because we have seen that his kiss buddy receives EU grants for several EU leaders, but he does not devote it to Hungarian accreditation, therefore to EU training, but instead to American training. Which, by the way, does not exist in America, because when the committee went out and examined how the training was taking place there, they found a newly painted little cabin marked CEU. That would have been the real activity there. It's not real for the university there, but in this business model, it's the only way it works, that it's said to be American, paid with EU money, plus the tuition fee, and they're able to run an extremely profitable, highly profitable business. Honourable Congressman, That's what you're protecting, this kind of profitability, and for that, you're making a political stage. They use it to protect George Soros and his network. So there is no significant movement, only now they want to sit on a political wave mountain again, which is once again suitable for putting Hungary out of business. And what is most terrible is that you do not defend Hungary here in the Hungarian Parliament, but you will sit up for this, you will also go abroad, and Hungary will be constantly reported on the basis of this political bluff. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-30-12	Thank you, Secretary of State of Rétvári. Dear Parliament, He also spoke before the agenda with the title of the LMP Member's Lady, Krisztina Hohn:. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2018-10-30-13	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Today's speech is not intended to forge any political capital or how it just sounded. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: I believe you.]] I simply want it to be a thought wake-up call, awareness raising and a dialogue initiative. I would like to say a few words to you about the most dwindling layers, the public workers and the group of people who have received support to replace employment. I've worked with them for over a decade, so I know their lives, I've been in their houses, I know their everyday problems. I simply think that we understand and accept that the intention to keep the support that replaced employment at HUF 22 800 was to get these people into the labour market as soon as possible, return them to the labour market, and the public employment wage, which would serve 54 000 forints, would serve the same purpose. Yes, but I have to say, unfortunately, this goal does not seem to be fully fulfilled. The reason for this is that those who are qualified to work on the labour market are, fortunately, already in employment. However, there is a layer that we may not even think about, who cannot return to the labour market mentally or because of other illnesses. I think they need help. Yes, we do, we also need strictness, but we also need to provide a helping hand. I suggest that we develop, like women's career programs, a program for them, a complex development where they can receive personalized or other therapies after their health check, personality development training and basic competence training. There has been such a basic competence training effort, but the problem was that during the implementation we were called from the labour centre, and we had half an hour to say five names, who we were sending for this training, and therefore we did not necessarily reach the people who really needed it. It can now be said, as I have already said, that in public employment there are still people who have serious problems. Not all of them are, but let's say 50 percent of them are. If our aim is to bring them back to the labour market, then we will have to develop a complex programme. The other layer is those who are already 40 or 50 or 60 percent disability, and they receive 20 or 27 thousand HUF monthly allowance, which is very little. In fact, their health will continue to deteriorate. We had a cancer worker who spent the last few days of this 27,000 forints, say, his last three or four months. He had to rely on the goodwill of the people, so he received food and the municipality tried to help him with fuel and other ways. [[9.40]] He was in an extremely vulnerable position, without relatives, he was not received by chronic care classes, as after a certain period of time he would have to pay for these benefits, and this is not possible from 27 thousand forints. It is only a hospital of mercy that is suitable for this, for example, in Baranya County, or which bets, but there is a limited number of people who can be accepted. So these people hang in the air. We still know them in Falun, and we try to help them as much as we can, but, let's say, in a city, I think most of the time they don't even know that in their own home they're trying to make a move out of 27,000 forints. So I ask that we reflect on how we can effectively bring these people back to the labour market and what solutions we can come up with to this end. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-30-14	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Hohn Krisztina. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-10-30-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I must admit that I deeply agree with two parts of your speech, and I think that one part of it is generally agreed here in Parliament, and the other one is something that we rarely encounter, that they think in the opposition as well as on the government side. Obviously, what everyone agrees with us to do is to help people in a difficult situation, obviously, to provide people with decent living conditions. There have been countless measures for this in the last eight years. I will tell you a few of these and the results that we have achieved. But what is more formal than the opposition is your thinking, and what is closer to our thinking is precisely that you are not imagining it in the system of relief, but that you are suggesting it now, and this is fully in line with the Government's intentions, and we trust that you, as you said you have a specific local field experience, are confident that you can make good suggestions from this, that we should help people, and that the whole social system should point out in the direction that anyone who can be encouraged to work, study, work or any activity, language training or further training can be encouraged to do so. It should not be the logic of the relief system, as before 2010, that people are addicted to the political and social thinking of Gyula Horn, that I am addicted, that in return I can count on his vote every four years, but I will not help him break out of his difficult situation, but your logic is based on our logic that we can make people active as much as possible in the labour market or in learning, elsewhere. In the last eight years Hungary has made tangible and undeniable progress, because while the average employment rate in the other EU Member States has increased by 4.3 percent, Hungary has increased by 14.7 percent. So there is such a pulling force, which may be tens of thousands of people, perhaps a few hundred thousand people, what the circle of those who need to be helped most concentrated with such programs was estimated to be a little over 200,000 a few years ago, who need a lot of help programs to break out of public employment. There is a tensile force in the economy, and you know that unemployment has fallen to a record low level, below 4 percent. Actions have been growing continuously in Hungary for 67 months now, and every month for 67 months, the average earnings of people in Hungary are growing compared to the previous month; if you look at this year alone, this year's first seven months of this year is 9.4 percent. Nearly 10 percent does not increase wages in a year, not many European countries can say that about themselves. This shows the diligence of the Hungarian people and that, indeed, when we call people to look for jobs and work there more, because they have to pay less of their earnings, the Hungarian people were partners, because this is the only way we could achieve that the salaries increased by nearly 10 percent this year as well. In addition, since 2010, 460,000 more people have been working in Hungary. What also offers many opportunities is the explosive technological change not only in teleworking but also in other special forms of work, which can now open up employment for people who have not previously had an open job. Let me briefly refer to two things in relation to the support to replace employment and to the aid for health damage. The social law clearly states that only the person who has been removed from the employment register by the public employment body for reasons attributable to him can be denied access to an active person. Therefore, if a person is removed from the employment register for health reasons, you also targeted or indicated that for health reasons a person could not work, it does not provide a legal basis for the short termination of the FHT as a substitute for employment. This regulation has been part of the regulation for years. No amendments have been made recently. Experience has shown that in many cases people whose health damage is between 40 and 50 percent cannot be considered as employers, thus it is difficult to convey it either to public employment or to the open labour market. The government intends that it may be justified for the benefit of this staff, whom you have spoken about, as I have removed from your words here, instead of replacing employment with health and child care support. You have seen it, and you know that in recent years there have been a lot of basic school skills courses to be organised. When this was necessary, the staff of the Ministry of Interior organised this in the context of public employment. When one of the local employers needed a special workforce, the vocational training centre helped to start vocational training, but you have any suggestions. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I really welcome it, because such speeches before the agenda are always more likely to be heard than political mud throwing. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-30-16	Thank you very much, Secretary of State of Rétvári. Dear Parliament, At the same time, István Szávay, Member of the Jobbik Group, 7 minutes of propaganda with the title of HUF 443 million in public money, came forward before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-10-30-17	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, At the end of 2016, the Civil Alliance Forum, which organised peace processions alongside the government, held as Fidesz's civil society organisation, received more than half a billion forints from Hungarian Electricity. Immediately after that, the CÖF's clown poster campaign to discredit and wash Gábor Vona with Ferenc Gyurcsány, whose party you and your party voted off our initiative for the 2020 Trianon Memorial Year. László Csizmadia and the majority of the leaders of the CÖF served the Communists as enthusiastically as they did in the case of the Fidesz regime. For this reason, of course, they will still receive their own payment, although these good comrades first denied in their communication of 10 May 2017 that they would have received public money in the period 2010-2016. One day later, however, they were already exposed to their lies, because thanks to Átlátszó it turned out that a HUF 508 million grant was received from Hungarian Electricity. Of course, the CFF lied further instead of a straight answer and claimed that the aid received by the 100% state-owned energy giant was not public money, making it even more suspicious. On 19 May 2017, I therefore reported Fidesz's pseudo-civil organisation for mistreatment, which, of course, was rejected by the Metropolitan Public Prosecutor's Office, and then submitted a public interest request to MVM for the grant documents, which they refused, saying that the aid was not made out of public money. On 19 September 2017, Attila Péterfalvi, President of the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, also received a reply, in which he clearly indicated that MVM was handling public funds, and therefore called upon the company to allow access to the documents within 15 days. After the MVM still refused to publish the documents, and in Parliament I was once again given subpair lying and serialization by Secretary General Fónagy to my speech before the agenda on this matter, I am pleased that you also remember this, Mr Secretary of State, and then I filed a second complaint this time with a reasonable suspicion of misuse of public interest data. Needless to say, this was rejected again. In order for the story to be round, a speaker's statement later revealed that the support of the CF was actually decided not in the MVM, but in the National Communications Office managed by the Minister of Propaganda Antal Rogán. The Átlátszó tried to sue for exactly what the CÖF spent half a billion forints on, but not surprisingly, the final judgment arrived only four days after the parliamentary elections. In the final court ruling, it turned out that the lion's share of HUF 508 million, some HUF 443 million, was spent in total on the production and advertising of four amateur films of about seven minutes, in addition to the financing of protests against Brussels. In addition, all four short films start with the same one-minute intro, so in fact MVM spent four and a half minutes on the Minister of Propaganda's instructions. In comparison, the film was supported by the Film Fund with HUF 400,000 per minute, while the films of the CÖF cost taxpayers HUF 98 million 400 thousand per minute, i.e. 246 times more expensive. If the whole story weren't already humiliating enough, I would add that the movies on TV2's behalf were not commissioned anywhere else and not listed by Fidesz-near Magno Studio Kft. He made it, or at least they billed it. [[9.50]] According to the key sentences of the video, which was cut mostly from the recordings of previous events, the CUF's mission allows as many home products as possible to be placed on the tables, and it is essential to learn novel techniques in local children's meals using modern recipes. This self-advertisement managed to spend nearly half a billion forints, while according to the CUF website, not a fraction of this amount was actually spent on the actual performance of these activities. Not to mention the fact that the Csizmadias had asked for this half a billion forints to develop the science of civilization, which became the subject of mystery and public laughter. Yet their report was accepted by MVM. This is a shocking and outrageous kind of brazenness, which is why today I am going to press charges again against the leaders of MVM on suspicion of fraud, embezzlement and fraudulent treatment, because they think we're all so stupid that they think we're going to believe that 443 million forints were spent on four amateur videos and not on the clown campaign, which, by the way, was the launch of a fideous slander campaign at the time. Secretary of State, do you still believe that this MVM half-billion-dollar grant has been properly used? Do you think they raise suspicions of unfaithful treatment or other crimes? Do you also consider László Csizmadia to be suitable for the presidency of the National Cooperation Fund and for managing the funds of Hungarian NGOs? If you'd like to take a suggestion, I'd put it up for the Oscars if I were you. Thank you very much. [[Delight and applause in the opposition benches.]]
u2018-10-30-18	Thank you, Congressman Savay. On behalf of the Government, Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, will respond.
u2018-10-30-19	[[No sound.]] Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, [[Intercoms from the opposition benches: We can't hear it!]]
u2018-10-30-20	Card?
u2018-10-30-21	[[His mic's working.]] Thank you, I'm sorry. Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for giving me the opportunity to present to the public in this House and to the public in this country, with your comments before the agenda. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: We know it!]] The MVM Group is a highly successful national energy group, which, in addition to providing consumers with electricity and natural gas at the best possible price, also carries out a wide range of social responsibility support activities. This support activity includes culture, support for socially disadvantaged groups, sport and many other activities. The other person in the case is the Civil Alliance organization you mentioned. [[Interview from Jobbik: Forum!]] The CÖF, which is indeed doing such a very important social organization and enlightenment work, is able to mobilise hundreds of thousands of people in Hungary, in our view, for essential social goals. Your comment before the agenda included the Transparent as a credible organ whose editor-in-chief, Tamás Bodoky, was last hugging Sargentini. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: Oh! Martin Gyöngyösi: You can still be right! Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] He thanked Hungary for his work, and he wanted to play an independent role. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: This is a serious argument. From a serious man.]] But if the Jobbik has drawn attention to you with their recent interventions, then allow me to introduce you as one of the actors in this case. The Jobbik, which used to be a national radical [[Martin Gyöngyösi: What's that got to do with it?]] Otherwise, he began his activities as an extreme right party, a XXI. Based on Sturmabteilung's hairy organization of the century [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] which has drawn from the extreme right to the centre of the right, and is now specifically trying to grab me with a left-wing flirtation. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: What are you assisting me with now in Fidesz, Secretary of State? Christian and... Miklós Soltés: Wake up! Martin Gyöngyösi: Aren't you ashamed? The president's ringing the bell.]] In addition, with all the social objections and accusations that have been made before your agenda, it can basically be said for your party. [[István Szávay: But we are not talking about the party of the Szávay, we are talking about the CÖF!]] Because your former member is making it public that their internal accounting system is untraceable. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: What times does Fidesz remind you of, dear John?]] That the funds collected from their supporters weren't spent on what was collected, not according to the intended purpose. The Jobbik who has a record of accepting hundreds of millions from an oligarchy [[Interventions from opposition benches: Oligarchy?]] They've failed, by the way. And yet it's strange that you bring this up, who, as you heard on the radio last time, carried the money around in pretty little bags. By the way, to talk about the specific issue, although I admit I didn't see the films: the films you mentioned, the support presented by public benefit activities, and the films calling the attention of Hungarian citizens to the importance of civil society organisations for 1 percent. The fundamental aim of these is to make the activities of the CÖF and CÖKA widely known to society, as well as those of the CÖF and CÖKA, which have so far been little known to society. Among other things, these efforts have been made to reform the organisation of small family farming communities, business development, market-supporting activities and children's catering. I do not know how much they stand up for an Oscar prize contest, but that they served the aims of Hungarian society, I am sure. Thank you for your attention. [[Miklós Soltész: That's right! A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-30-22	Thank you, Secretary of State, János Fónagy. Dear Parliament, At the same time, István Simicskó, Member of the Christian Democratic People's Party, spoke before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-10-30-23	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, This is the 44th week of the year 2018. This week is the fall break for our children, but this week, Thursday, all Saints, Friday is the day of the dead. Allow me, as a Christian Democrat politician, to tell you why it is important for us to have 1 November, the Day of All Saints and the Day of the Dead. All Saints' Day is important because we remember saved souls, proclaiming souls in the kingdom of God and glorified souls and the communion of saints. The Day of the Dead, 2 November, which unfortunately affects all of us, is remembered by our loved ones who have left Earth. Both Memorial Days are part of our culture, expressing the order of the values of our Christian civilization, even if today's modern civilization program is primarily self-centered, exclusively about the welfare of the individual, of which, unfortunately, separation from God is an important part. Therefore, we Christian Democrats have three services: a missionary activity, the promotion of the love of the Good God; the care and active care of patriotism; and, of course, the education of our children, as Marai puts it, so that they can acquire the education of the heart and character in this world today. All three services are daily service, as Lajos Kossuth put it. And how can we manage this effectively? Of course, there are a number of guidelines for this. I would quote Anna Jókai, who was very wise to draw attention to the care of the unity of the three consciousnesss: this is nothing but the consciousness of man, the consciousness of nation, and the consciousness of God. That's right, any damage, our defense shields are weakening, both as individuals and as communities, especially when we live in a unique, rushing, noisy world. As Henry Kissinger puts it in his work The World Order: chaos threatens the world. We are experiencing a periodical change, both in technical and technological terms, both in the process of migration and in the process of the crisis in the value system. CHAPTER XVI Pope Benedict says that we should be realisticly prepared for evil to always attack, both from the inside and from the outside. When and how can we stand, fellow Members? Father Kolping offers us an important message for life: if we build our lives on faith, we can do better to cope with life's difficulties. Why would he say that? Primarily because all human civilizations were built on religious pedestals. A world without faith will lose its soul, and the soulless world will be destroyed. [[10.00]] As St. Peter puts it in his first letter: "Let the purpose of your faith be the salvation of souls. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Faith is also strengthened through transmission: contemplata aliis tradere to pass on the fruits of meditation. We humans have many means to overcome evil and suffering in the world, and the people who struggle for it are wonderful. Thank you and thanks to the sincere servants of the community, to those who nurse and heal the sick, to those who take care of our safety, to the soldiers and to the police. Thank you to our teachers, who raise our children in the spirit of Goethe, because Goethe said what is most important to our children: primarily the roots, our traditions, our traditions, our values and wings to achieve their goals. Thank you to the spiritual fathers who keep faith in us, and thank you to everyday heroes, as Ady puts it in Hercules the Must. So let us remember our loved ones this week, looking for the silence of memory. As King Solomon asked in his first book, "Give me, Lord, the heart that heareth thee." Solomon did not ask for riches, nor for the lives of his enemies, nor for power, but for a quiet heart that listens to God, for it brings the rest and joy of the inner light, the lux interna that we all need. Thank you very much for listening and for peace between us. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-30-24	Thank you very much, Congressman Simicskó. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Miklós Soltész will respond to what has been said.
u2018-10-30-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Europe is really in trouble and is in trouble because of the crisis of values, and it simply lost values. It was interesting, by the way, to have a political outlook on yesterday, to see how the German press responded to Angela Merkel's withdrawal decision. Most left-wing liberal media began to visualize almost the end of the world, and began to visualize the end of liberal civilizations in Europe and in many places in the world. While it is clear and this is not just typical of Hungary, but it is typical of many nation states that the values in the majority of people and in the depths of their souls are there, and the values that you have listed, whether the community, family, family holidays, or commemorative days, are all such values that if a culture, society, in some way, wants to push them out of their lives or turn them out completely, then indeed, that society is in trouble, and indeed, that society will slip down. Therefore, indeed, the three areas, whether the mission area or patriotism, or child rearing, are important and necessary for us. Mission area is important. I am thinking of our churches here, and it is also important to consider that 80 percent of people in Hungary consider Christianity to be a value, it is important, even if not everyone is a believer, not everyone is a churchgoer or a practicing Christian. But he definitely considers it important, and the value that Christendom conveys, be it through charitable organizations, be it through the presence of the church, in the social field, in school or anywhere, this is important for the country and for the people. The western part of Europe has rejected this. If we look at the other important message, patriotism, we can see that the European Union elections will also be decided between two areas. One of them is a global Europe, where someone or someone from Brussels runs it, leads it, and patriotism, nation and nation state as such, as an important, necessary area, they want to put it in the background completely, if possible, to completely eliminate it if possible. This is why it is very important for us to connect with Hungarians abroad, but also to help people in Hungary's everyday lives, this is part of their patriotism. And if you have already mentioned a holiday, a memorial day, it is therefore perfectly natural that the next 1 November and 2nd is an important holiday and an important memorial day for all of us, both believers and unbelievers. Older people may or may not have to go back too far when they celebrated the so-called socialist revolution in October on 7 November during this November period. Seventy years in the Communist Soviet Union, 45-50 years in this bloc where we live. Yet, they could not exterminate from the hearts the wonderful and very important Memorial Day or Memorial Days associated with the Day of the Dead and the All Saints. Thank you so much for remembering this. And the third area is the families. I don't think there's much to talk about about the family support system. In the European Union, there will probably be the most extensive support opportunities in the next year's tax system, and there will also be additional opportunities for home-building support, all strengthening what is the foundation of society, i.e. the family. I urge and ask everyone to make the decisions that we make here in Parliament, whether it is the support of Hungarians or Hungarians living outside of Hungary, whether it is the strengthening of family support systems, whether it is the worthy celebration of those celebrations, not by egg throwing, not by squashing, but a worthy celebration of our entire nation, that we can sit together if necessary. But even if not together, at least keep your dignity on a holiday. God bless all those who work in graveyards now, for all our dead, for our dead, for our loved ones, for whom millions of people are going to visit these days. Thank you very much for your suggestion and your comment. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-30-26	Thank you, Secretary Soltes. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Parliament, Mr László Böröcz, Member of the Fidesz Group, also spoke before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-10-30-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In 2015, when the migration crisis started, many were irresponsible, driven by political interests, simply questioning the existence of the problem, they said that this was the government's idea. Since then, many lies have been unveiled, and it has turned out that the masses of people are not appearing at random, but this is a consciously organized attack on the Soros network against Hungary and Europe. Now, however, not only in Europe, but also in the United States, the Soros network is working intensively to force its political and social ideas on people. So now they're preparing for the rehearsal at the southern border of the United States with the thousands of migrants marching that way. There is a spooky resemblance to the former situation in Serbia or the current situation in Bosnia, where the Hungarian border was besieged with an organized mass of thousands of migrants, and recently the Croatian border. The pattern is the same. They're financing the procession with lots of money. There's a paper on cash distributions, and there's a full-blown organization behind it. They heat up and use the masses of unfortunate people, make them believe they have to get into the United States. It is expected that international media will accompany you with live mediation and will even provoke the US authorities to violent conflict, as they did with Röszke. Obviously, they want to present live one of the main points of the Soros Plan that illegal migration is now a human right and everyone can move to whatever state they want. At the same time, they want to force the US authorities to waive the right to border protection. This is not surprising to us, because we know that they are working to adopt them in the UN, in Brussels and in the European Parliament. The Soros network, which organises immigration, and the political forces with it, want to legalize, organise and automate illegal migration, and remove nation states from the right to border protection. This is how they want to turn Europe into an immigrant continent, which is how they want to destabilize the US government, which is also anti-immigrant. It also shows that huge forces are working on the organisation of migration, the Balkan migrant mass and the Soros express can be a major test of the new series of attacks. [[10.10]] But no matter how powerful we have to fight, the Hungarian government, the parliament, must enforce the will of the Hungarian people. After all, the situation in the Balkans as a result of illegal migration is already dangerous for Hungary. According to reports from Hungarian and foreign secret services, the number of migrants on the Balkan migration route is already 70 000, and these people are all moving north. A physical confrontation took place in the last few days. Immigrants attacked Bosnian police officers. The first wall was also broken, and the second Bosnian police cordon was able to stop the violent crowd. A situation similar to the riots in Röszke has therefore emerged here. The news is that some people are consciously rebelling and organizing migrants. It is no wonder that the situation in the Balkans is very tense; migrants and residents who are increasingly difficult to deal with illegal migration are barely able to cope with the situation. All this is happening here, south of Hungary, not far from the Hungarian border, and it is feared that the Hungarian border may be the target again at any time. Therefore, we ask the National Assembly's Defence and Police Committee and the National Security Committee to put on the agenda the Balkan migrant situation that is dangerous to Hungary as well. Everything must be done to protect Hungary and the Hungarian people. Therefore, Hungary has strengthened the protection of the southern border and has offered assistance in addition to Croatia to all the countries concerned on the Balkan migration route. The Minister of the Interior took steps to strengthen the Hungarian-Croatian border and assembled border hunting centuries there. According to him, Hungarian border defenders are able to defend the Croatian-Hungarian border if necessary. As winter approaches, the migratory pressure will only increase, so we must pay attention to these processes. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-30-28	Thank you, Mr László Böröcz. On behalf of the government, Mr Tuzson Bence, State Secretary, will respond. [[Noise. It's ringing.]]
u2018-10-30-29	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Member, Dear Parliament, Indeed, the seriousness of the problem is indicated by the fact that we are now facing the issue of migration and violent migration not only in Europe, but also the organisation, firm organisation and financing of migration, and it is now obvious that it appears not only in Europe, but also in America, under siege at the borders of the United States of America, and we have actually seen a rehearsal. We saw a rehearsal with a clear purpose. The aim is to break the resistance that the anti-migration countries represent, the resistance that is about these countries not wanting migration, and they do not want migration to change these countries. It is quite clear that international trends and aspirations that appear on the one hand in the UN, appear in the European Union, everywhere where liberal circles related to György Soros, along with their money, appear... and that is to wash the right of migration with human rights, the right of migration with refugee rights, and all migrants who want to cross over from one country to another for economic reasons, should be regarded as refugees, and to name this right either at the level of the United Nations or at the level of nations, at the level of nations and at the level of the European Union, thus excluding the right to border protection from the hands of nation states. Now, this has to be done as decisively as possible, no matter how this effort comes. It arrives at the UN level in a migration package and appears in the European Union with various resettlement programmes, but it is definitely supported by György Soros; the money of György Soros and the form of support it presents through its various organisations, whether a financial attack or an attack in persons or in institutional systems. It is obvious that this provocation, which is taking place in America, is backed up by actual provocation, and they want to provoke violence in front of the media, proving that the current policy is not right. Where taking the rights of defence of nations is certainly harmful, it changes the country, and we are now witnessing the same experiment along our southern borders; not far from our southern borders, at the Croatian border, when the masses of migrants appear, and indeed, according to intelligence reports, there are tens of thousands of people flowing northwards, whose goal is sooner or later to break into the European Union. That is why it is important to strengthen border protection, and that is why the government has taken action, Hungary's Minister of Interior and their border hunting centuries have been strengthened at the southern border in order to make the line stronger. After all, let us not forget that events in Röszke, which are spookily similar to the events that are happening today, may have consequences both for American events and for events in Croatia, and the current situation may result in a deterioration of the situation at the Hungarian border, so we must be prepared for everything. The Hungarian budget is prepared for this, as we are constantly raising budget money. In this respect, we now have 24 billion forints available to protect the borders, and this is a lot of money, but the protection of the border and the security of the country are not a question of money, although we are constantly stressing and wanting Hungary to pay for this protection not entirely from a financial point of view, but the cost of border protection, the cost of building the fence, should be reimbursed to us by the European Union. The safety of Hungarian people is not a toy, it cannot be played with. Therefore, we want to maintain border protection, strengthen Hungary's borders and not allow the masses of migrants to cross the Hungarian border. So the situation is serious, indeed critical, and tense to the acne from our southern borders not so far away. We must also prepare for the worst events, the event of crossing the border along the southern border in Croatia, and then these people, migrants, will appear along the Hungarian border in an organized manner. I mean, we can see that there are also provocators among these people. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-30-30	Thank you, Secretary of State Tuzson Bence. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. Please take your seats and check that your card has been placed in the voting machine. The T/2161 Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the State of Indiana on cooperation in the field of higher education will be published. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/2161. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote. There's a congressman in the benches of Fidesz. A statement from the benches of Fidesz: Mr. President!]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill by 143 plus 1, i.e. 144 votes in favour, 10 against and 6 abstentions. Dear Parliament, H/2024 on the adoption of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank's business report and report for 2017 Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts H/2024. A proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 110 votes in favour, 52 against and without abstentions. Next up is H/2163 on the Hungarian Defence Corps's detailed breakdown. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. [[10.20]] As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts H/2163. A proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 136 votes in favour, 25 against and 2 abstentions. The second National Climate Change Strategy for the period 2017-2030, with a view to 2050, will be followed by H/385. Decision on the proposal for a summary amendment to the decision and the final vote. H/385/5 of the Legislative Committee's proposal for a summary amendment. H/385/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts H/385/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 111 votes in favour, 19 against and 32 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts H/385/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 112 votes in favour, 19 against and 33 abstentions. It follows from the 2005 CLXIV on trade. T/869. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/869/5. and its summary report is T/869/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/869/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 157 votes to one, with six abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/869/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 158 votes against, 1 against and 5 abstentions. Next up is the 1991 XLI on notaries. Act and Act XLV of 2008 on the non-court procedures of individual notaries. T/1658. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/1658/5. T/1658/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1658/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 119 votes in favour, 30 against and 15 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1658/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 113 votes in favour, 32 against and 21 abstentions. Next up is T/1659 on the amendment of certain industrial property laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/1659/5. T/1659/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1659/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment with 145 votes in favour, no votes against and 21 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1659/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 145 votes in favour, no votes against and 20 abstentions. Next up is the H/2158 on the initiative to declare Szeklers native to Hungary. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts H/2158. A proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 161 votes in favour, 1 against and 4 abstentions. H/2159 on the initiative to declare the Russian community an indigenous ethnic group in Hungary. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether H/2159 accepts it. A proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 146 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 18 abstentions. [[10.30]] Dear Parliament, We now decide on the inclusion of a series of proposals. I would like to remind you that yesterday, the Parliament has already held a hearing on these matters. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles entitled "Constitution to join the European Public Prosecutor's Office" by Márton Gyöngyösi Jobbikós and his fellow Members, H/871. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution in a series of subjects by 53 votes in favour, 115 against and without abstentions. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles by the Lóránt Keresztes László LMP representative and his fellow Members on the transparency of the state security past and on the amendments to the law needed to exclude the professional staff of pro-state leaders and dictatorship from the wearing of certain public offices, T/1164. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not include the bill with 53 votes in favour, 112 votes against and no abstentions. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles by Lóránt Keresztes, LMP, and its fellow Members on the fight against illegal migration and on the management of migration, H/1486. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution with 47 votes in favour, 113 against and 7 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It follows a decision on the personal proposal. I would like to ask Mr István Tiba to present the S/3145 tabled in the power of president. The content of the personal proposal.
u2018-10-30-31	5/2018 on the establishment of committees, election of officials and members of the Parliament Section 2 of the parliamentary decision is amended as follows: Parliament elects Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi, Fidesz, instead of Dr. Gyula Budai, Fidesz, member of the committee. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption.
u2018-10-30-32	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts S/3145. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the personal proposal by 154 votes in favour, 8 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, It is now time for disciplinary action to be taken. [[Noise. It's ringing.]] XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly Law 49. On 15 October 2018, on the basis of paragraph 5 of Article I inform you that, as President of Parliament, during the speech before the agenda of Péter Ungár, following a warning of the legal consequences of conduct, Szabolcs Szabó, independent, Krisztina Hohn, Antal Csárdi, Márta Demeter and László Lóránt Keresztes, representatives of the LMP, following the warning of the legal consequences of the conduct already cited by the Act 49. Section 4 excluded the remainder of the sitting day. The text of the legislation states that if the Member shows a serious violation of the authority and order of the Parliament, or if, by his conduct, he violates the rules of the Rules of Procedure relating to the deliberations, the vote or the illustration, the chairman of the sitting may propose the exclusion of the representative for the remainder of the sitting without ordering or warning. In view of the fact that Parliament did not have a quorum at the time of the exclusion of its Members, decisions on exclusion are set out in Article 49 of the National Assembly Act. Paragraph 5 of this Article is replaced by the following: The minutes of the exclusion are also available from the Parliamentary Journal and from the website. The Act on Parliament 49. Pursuant to Rule 5 of the Act on the Legality of Presidential Decisions, Parliament shall decide without debate. First, we decide on the legality of the President's decision to exclude Mr Szabó Szabolcs. I ask the Honourable Parliament to determine the legality of the presidential decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament has determined the legality of the ruling on exclusion by 113 votes in favour, 46 against and without abstention. We are now deciding on the legality of the presidential decision to exclude Mrs Hohn Krisztina. I ask the Honourable Parliament to determine the legality of the presidential decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament has determined the legality of the ruling on exclusion by 111 votes in favour, 48 against and without abstentions. We are now deciding on the legality of the President's decision to exclude Mr Csárdi Antal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to determine the legality of the presidential decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament has determined the legality of the ruling on exclusion by 113 votes in favour, 46 against and without abstention. We are now deciding on the legality of the presidential decision to exclude Mrs Márta Demeter. I ask the Honourable Parliament to determine the legality of the presidential decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament has determined the legality of the ruling on exclusion by 113 votes in favour, 43 against and without abstentions. We are now deciding on the legality of the presidential decision to exclude Mr Lóránt Keresztes. I ask the Honourable Parliament to determine the legality of the presidential decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament has determined the legality of the ruling on exclusion by 112 votes in favour, 46 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Thank you for your cooperation, and we have reached the end of your decisions. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break. Several Members are leaving the Chamber.]] [[10.40]] With all due respect to my fellow Members who are involved in the parliamentary corridor work, leave the Chamber. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. There is a general debate on the draft law amending certain laws concerning the financial intermediary system for harmonisation purposes until closure. Government referral T/2924. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, Minister of State of the Ministry of Finance, author of the item on the agenda.
u2018-10-30-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The fundamental reason for this amendment is our obligation to harmonise EU legislation. This time, the legislative proposal focuses on the transposition of the Directive on the activities and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision and the harmonisation of the securitisation regulation. The proposal also amends certain financial legislation to a lesser extent, in particular in order to comply with the resolution directives, the Money Market Funds Regulations, the Brochure Regulation, the European Venture Capital Funds Regulation and the European Social Entrepreneurship Funds Regulation. I would also like to point out, first of all, that the relevant professional organisations, as well as the MNB for financial supervision, were also consulted several times before the present form of the proposal was obtained. Some elements of the proposal before you will affect the future functioning of a narrower professional group. I would like to draw attention to the fact that these elements may, where appropriate, be very important for the safe functioning of the regulated area and the whole financial system. One of these issues is occupational retirement. European society is ageing. Pension systems across the European Union are under a great deal of pressure to ensure adequate, safe and sustainable pensions in the long term. Following the economic and financial crisis, it became clear that higher levels of governance, reflecting established practices at national level, are needed in order to protect members and beneficiaries of pension schemes and to facilitate safe cross-border care. The insolvency of some occupational pension institutions, large financial institutions, can affect financial stability and have significant social consequences. The crisis has highlighted the weaknesses of the occupational pension market and the amendment of the directive has therefore been justified. The crisis has also shown significant shortcomings in informing members and beneficiaries. Many members of the scheme are unaware that their pension rights are not guaranteed and that costs can have a significant impact on their pension rights. The proposal thus places great emphasis on informing members of occupational pension institutions, which means, inter alia, sending out a more detailed statement of accounts and maintaining an informative website. Uniform regulation for cross-border services is an essential part of the functioning of the single occupational pension market. What is new is the introduction of a cross-border transfer, which will allow for the future transfer of a pension scheme to other occupational pension institutions or to other Member States. The amended legislation also ensures effective supervision of institutions and cooperation of supervision with national supervisors and European insurance and occupational pension authorities. By amending the IORP Act, we are fulfilling our obligation to harmonise EU legislation. The deadline for transposition shall be 13 January 2019. Dear House, An area which has been widely mentioned in international professional circles over the last decade, securitisation, its narrower segment, the creation of an EU framework for simple, transparent and standardised securitisation, is dealt with in an EU regulation adopted at the end of 2017. In principle, securitisation means transactions that allow a creditor or another originator, typically a credit institution, to refinance a group of loans or assets, such as mortgages, car leases, consumer loans, credit cards, by converting them into securities by installing a so-called special purpose vehicle. The assets are classified into different risk categories, tailored to the investor's risk-bearing capacity and profit needs. For investors, the return is derived from the repayment of the underlying loans. It can be seen that this is a risky genre, and therefore the EU regulation is also very rightly restricting retail investment opportunities. As a regulation that will apply directly from 1 January 2019 and applicable in all Member States of the European Union, domestic legislation may cover areas not covered by the Regulation. This means, in particular, fine-tuning to the new Regulation along the lines of the Regulation. In addition to these two emphasis areas, some additional amendments are included in the draft law. These provisions are also mainly linked to harmonisation of EU legislation and are intended to correct and clarify the rules of the credit, capital and insurance markets, taking into account the protection of consumers' interests. [[10.50]] Dear Parliament, The primary reason for the amendment of the Payment Service Act and the Law on certain payment service providers is that new regulated services in payment services will be available from the autumn of 2019. Payment service providers that hold a bank account or a payment account will be obliged to support the third party payment service provider that provides a payment initiation service, an account information service or a card-based payment instrument without having any contractual relationship with the payment service provider that manages the payment account. The proposal also covers a smaller range of credit institutions' laws. As part of this, in order to improve the resolvability of credit institutions, in line with the EU's Directive 2017/2399, it will also set up a sequence of satisfactions within the creditors' claims to be included under the bankruptcy law, creating a new senior, but not first-rate, creditor class. The proposal also lays down detailed procedural rules for the approval by the competent supervisory authorities of agreements within the banking groups on financial assistance to be granted to each other by the members of the group in order to avoid possible resolution. All these rules, in addition to increasing the security of customers, also contribute to helping a bank that may be in difficulty, not from taxpayers' money. Increased consumer safety is served by an amendment to the Insurance Act which provides for a more stringent customer information obligation for non-main occupations such as car dealers, real estate agents or certain travel agencies. Furthermore, the amendment makes it clear that these undertakings can only have one employer who is responsible for their activities. Dear Parliament, In conclusion, the purpose of the proposed legislation is to further ensure and stimulate the more reliable functioning of the financial sector in a broad sense. In addition to this objective, the interests of customers and consumers continue to be taken into account and, ultimately, we have sought to ensure that these aspects are balanced in the bill. I therefore ask you to support the bill that has been tabled. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-30-34	Thank you, Mr András Tállai State Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speech will now take place in 15-15 minutes' time frame. First, I give the floor to Mr Jenő Manninger, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-10-30-35	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The Ministry of Finance presented a detailed presentation of the proposal to amend certain elements of the financial intermediary system in the State Secretary's exposé. The purpose of this bill is to sum up the activities and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision and to bring about the harmonisation of the securitisation regulation. Taking into account the activities of institutions for occupational retirement provision, which are at the heart of the bill, the European Union's governments are under a great deal of pressure on this issue. Like Europe, Hungary is struggling with these problems, as our country is characterised by an ageing society, the Hungarian population is losing weight, the average age is increasing. Nevertheless, the Government of Hungary is doing everything in its power to curb the ageing of society and to increase the quality of the pension system. This is demonstrated by the fact that, at the end of the previous year, pensioners were granted a pension premium and a voucher for Elizabeth. Dear House, There is a need for a high level of comprehensive regulation across Europe to protect members and beneficiaries of the pension scheme and to facilitate secure cross-border care. The bill highlights the importance of information for members of occupational pension institutions. Uniform regulation for cross-border services is an essential part of the functioning of the single occupational pension market. What is new is the introduction of a cross-border transfer, which will allow for the future transfer of a pension scheme to another occupational pension institution or to another Member State. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to the activities and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision, the proposal also concerns the implementation of the harmonisation of the securitisation regulation. In 2017, an EU regulation was adopted to lay down common rules for all securitisations that provide a framework for safe, simple, transparent, standardised and sufficiently supervised securitisation products and to help distinguish these products from more complex and risky financial instruments. The new rules will help investors, foster new investment opportunities and provide additional sources of funding for the economy. Overall, therefore, the draft legislation submitted by the portfolio is also forward-looking in terms of occupational retirement and securitisation, and I therefore call on my fellow Members to support the proposal submitted, like the Fidesz fraction. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-30-36	Thank you, Congressman Jenő Manninger. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group; and I give the chair to János Latorcai, my vice-president. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2018-10-30-37	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you for the opportunity. The title of the bill concerning the financial intermediary system usually leads even the followers of us on the Internet to run away from the computer. These agendas, typically European Union transpositions, implementation experiments or intentions, are supposed to be put together deliberately in such a way that they are indeed salad-like. We are now in touch with the directive on the activities and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision, the securitisation regulation, the regulation on money market funds, the regulation on brochures, the regulation on European venture capital funds and the regulation on European social entrepreneurship funds. It's hard to list it, from memory, it would be particularly difficult for you to do so. I think that it would be appropriate to discuss them one by one and, where appropriate, to see in favour of what the Government of Hungary can add to European ideas in these particularly important areas. So if it makes sense to fight Brussels and this idea is close to me, so here you can start a substantial box, it would be that Hungary can take action in addition to the Brussels directives, what resources it allocates, and if we are talking about putting Hungarian micro-, small- and medium-sized enterprises in position, what the Government of Hungary is doing for them. After all, I see the entire coordinate system as well as the implemented directive as well as the Hungarian government action, the co-ordinated budget forints, I can see it. However, this proposal is inadequate. This is a simple transposition made by a translation agency, which has, of course, been drafted by excellent lawyers, but such a proposal in itself raises doubts as to whether the current government of Hungary is capable of putting professional added value on the table. I trust that you will, but I believe that many important areas are left out of this negotiation. [[Defiance on the pro-government side.]] My fellow government members may laugh, but listen to what just happened. Typically, by reading from paper, the fellow Members highlighted certain sections of the general justification, which they threw on the table without any justification, and then asked their opposition fellow Members to vote on this material invented within the European Union, and we have not seen any added value on your part so far. I trust that will change, but laughing at this review is absolutely amazing. Add some professional material to all of this, that's my request. I would like to say that, in terms of support for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, startups, while I agree with certain provisions of the directive, I very much miss Hungary's plans and the ways in which the government intends to support the spread and dissemination of mobile, de-cashed techniques and tools in Hungary. There can be no response to this by placing or placing more ATM machines or creating an environment for banks to do so. [[11.00]] This is a much more serious professional issue. And I must also tell you that until a state-owned venture capital fund is set up in Hungary, from Hungarian sources, it is very difficult to take seriously the fact that, because of the transposition of an EU directive or regulation, there will be considerable relief in the Hungarian economy, which, let us say, will be filtered down to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. But to have a specific basis for discussion, Mr Secretary of State, I suggest that we continue a substantive professional debate on whether, in the case of a micro, small and medium-sized enterprise registered in Hungary, in the first year, these undertakings should be fully exempt from tax and tax obligations or parked in an account for a year, and should be fulfilled when this small enterprise is able to generate profits. We are talking about a method that is common on the international stage, which could be transposed into the Hungarian economy. Obviously, there is a need to filter out abuse options, so I suggested that we continue a professional debate on this. What is the biggest problem for a start-up Hungarian small enterprise? The incredibly slow bureaucratic processes. This proposal and the Government of Hungary will not change that. This paper package does not change, and also the Government of Hungary has not changed it. The transaction fee was fined, which was clearly imposed by the legislator on the commercial banks concerned. We have already had countless debates with Mr Tállai State Secretary on the abuse of the banking system. Yesterday, Mr. Secretary of State sunk to the point of accusing me of supporting the banks. It's not just funny, but it's ridiculous from the point of view of the fact that it's impossible for you to be on the government, Mr. Secretary of State. Answer me that if the transaction fee, which is a type of tax but you have named it a levy, was imposed by the legislator on the commercial banks concerned, and then it has been proven that the banks concerned have passed this on to customers in their entirety, then why you have done nothing. You can reply that consumer protection and supervision have been transferred to the National Bank of Hungary. Sure. There was a question as to why the National Bank of Hungary did nothing in parallel with you. But the legislative framework, Mr. Secretary, is your responsibility. So I see the point of a deeper examination of the transpositions of the financial intermediary system if we also look at what the Government of Hungary has done or has not done. It is therefore my proposal to exempt or shift the tax and contribution benefit or liability for the first year in the case of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in order to enable them to compete. In the second large block, we can also read more about the development of a pan-European private pension product, which is not, by the way, silly, although it was invented by the European Commission. This is a new type of pension saving product that aims to bring people closer to their retirement age and to meet the expansion of the palette in terms of their pension savings potential, so that they can have more pension savings, manage them at European level and make their market transparent. The latter I do not know whose interest it is, obviously this is a question of transparency, which, I hope, does not involve a common Brussels approach and will not want to plow or over-regulate this market at some point. But I have to say, I support all self-care products, but I find it incredibly Pharisee that the Government of Hungary is presenting this, bringing it here, to support self-care for one more... Ladies and Gentlemen! In the way the European Commission has invented, this is what Fidesz-KDNP wants to do now, which is what it has put before us, in parallel with the fact that in thirty or a few hours they will plow down one of the main pillars of self-care in Hungary, the system of pre-emption for housing purposes. When you laugh at this, fellow Members, grab that button, press it enough to rip it out of your seat, stand up and reason. Tell me something about the fact that you want to support the European Commission's self-care product here, and I would add that it is a pre-saving for pension purposes that gives rise to very modest opportunities in Hungarian average earnings, but the pre-saving for housing in typical Hungarian living situations, probably for the benefit of their own friend's house lotteries, will be plowed in two days. Answer this, and if you can answer that, I can feel that you are having a serious professional debate on these issues. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-30-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. The next keynote speaker from the KDNP Group is Mr János Harghitai. Here you go.
u2018-10-30-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Karpát just said in his first sentence that there is a kind of salad law ahead of us and that it is difficult for him to handle it. Then he definitely started talking about something that was hardly the subject of this package of laws. So what's the legal situation with your first statement? If it's a salad law, let's consider it a bit of a salad law, is it possible to negotiate this law like this? It's obviously possible. Once we had a problem with our salad law, which I can recall, the practice was that the budget law was not negotiated in itself, but that there were many other laws attached to the budget law in a package of laws. This practice has been abolished by the Constitutional Court and said that we are negotiating the budget law on our own. Since then, it has been the practice to negotiate separately the laws establishing the budget, which, by their very nature, form a salad law package. If salad laws were to be rejected and related things could not be negotiated in a type of salad law, it would obviously make it impossible to legislate in such a case. The best example of this is the negotiation of the laws on which the budget is based. This salad isn't that big. I agree with the statement you made, Mr President, that if someone is listening to us now, they are most likely to push the device further, because it is a difficult law to interpret. We must negotiate this law, and our membership of the European Union is the result, rightly, that, in the institutional system of the European Union, there has always been, and will be, harmonisation between Member States in order to create and operate a single piece of legislation. Here a directive is being transposed into practice and a regulation is being incorporated. Because practically implementing these two EU legislations is the most important issue of this amendment. Here we do not have the possibility, in the course of the transposition of a directive, of the consequences that it will have in the financial system. In fact, today we are discussing other laws that put domestic small and medium-sized enterprises in a position. Dániel Z. Carpathian will also be speaking there, including these suggestions. During the transposition of the directive, the Secretary of State pointed out the fundamental problem that the European Union has obviously reached some kind of financial crisis or reached the Member States; Hungary has been hit separately; Europe also has a huge problem that Europe typically faces ageing in almost all Member States. Of course, it is good that people live long, but it is also a problem with the sustainability of pension systems. Therefore, the regulation should be streamlined for pension schemes and more strengthened. And what is important is that we translate something here for the students: the introduction of cross-border services must also be encouraged. So this is a scheme that, if a pension institution has introduced a scheme in a Member State, it will also have the possibility in future to pass this on to the Member States. So let's take over institutions in the Hungarian pension system's service system that have not yet been native. The securitisation regulation is a completely new area, so far it has not been regulated in Hungary. Grasping the essence of this means that the creditor or other originator would have the possibility in the future to refinance his credit or other assets by converting these loans into securities, and this would be done by introducing a special purpose entity. [[11.10]] It is important, and this may be important to all of us again, because sooner or later we will meet: almost every Hungarian citizen has a bank account, the range of services related to bank accounts is growing rapidly, and this is also expected in the coming period with the development of information technology, while the financial institutions leading our bank account were and are in some privileged situation. The transposition of this regulation will now result in card-based service providers putting in place payment instruments to replace cash, so consider them a kind of third party, one party is the account manager, the other I am the one who gives the order, and the third party will be able to access our financial accounts without a separate contractual institutional system between the account manager and the third party. Therefore, this will facilitate the introduction of such new types of financial services, but as a requirement, it is legitimate for the account manager and the third party to ensure that these data links are secure from a data protection point of view for the new provider. The Secretary of State also mentioned that two laws are being amended by this salad law. In the event of a resolution, the credit institution law establishes a new standard of satisfaction, which may also affect all of us several times, an amendment to the Insurance Act. We often encounter the fact that when we buy a car or buy an apartment or travel, the providers of such services also provide us with insurance services as other additional services. If they do this, which is not their basic activity, there will be stricter customer information rules. I therefore believe that it is our duty to negotiate this on the one hand because of European Union rules, and on the other hand, according to the Minister of State, that this proposal will serve the more reliable functioning of the financial sector, and even to think of somewhat boosting it, and strengthening cross-border services, I think that this package of legislation will be supported by the opposition, too. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-30-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2018-10-30-41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, The proposal includes amendments to 14 laws, mainly aimed at ensuring compliance with or enforcement of European Union law, and also contains clarifications and additions on the basis of practical needs. We are seeing extremely complex, multifaceted codification work, and I would like to point out that all 14 areas have already been listed by my good fellow Member, so I do not want to cover all 14 areas separately. Some statements, Mr Secretary of State: the change in the regulation of capital markets and securities markets, under EU regulations, creates, in particular, the refinancing of loans and leasing in exchange for existing mortgages, assets, through so-called securitisation, through a newly established special financial securities company. The collateral for the issuance of securities is the repayment from the outflow of bank loans, and even the assets can be transferred from the banks' balance sheets to the balance sheet of the new specialised firms. I would like to say to my colleague from KDNP, Harghitai, that twice he has noted that it must be quite difficult for television viewers to watch this parliamentary mediation because we are talking about a rather serious amendment of law and a comprehensive amendment of the law; let us say that Hungarian citizens do not have much opportunity to monitor television or even via the Internet, because we know that it was you who stopped the live mediation of Parliament's work. I think that this should be clarified for the record. This form of refinancing is eeriely similar to the special financial product in the USA leading to the start of the financial crisis ten years ago. At the same time, the refinancing of US residential mortgage loans was packaged and sold in securities, in which loans at different risk were mixed, and then, unfollowingly, one package of securities was packed and sold in the other. These laws have also been created in the EU and will enter into force throughout Europe. The development of the domestic capital and money market cannot be measured, let alone to the financial centres in the US, but also to Western Europe, and the relative small size of the market does not justify the expansion of the value market with such a bad financial instrument, despite the fact that new EU legislation and directives create the opportunity to do so. I would like to note here, Mr Secretary of State, that since the establishment of the new Orbán government, we have listened to several times, either in press statements or in committee meetings, from Viktor Orbán, Mihály Varga and György Matolcsy himself, to prepare the Hungarian population for a so-called economic crisis, to communicate continuously, so to speak, with the austerity package that we believe is being prepared for this next economic crisis, and to try to prepare the population by communicating how they will be able to carry their austerity package. In order to increase, tighten up and reduce the risk of IORP requirements, it seems acceptable, although there has been no news of problems in the wider public so far. Here, for the record, the government has repeatedly tried to re-employ pensioners in recent years. Mr Harghitai told me before me about the great problem not only in Hungary, but also the ageing of the population throughout Europe, and how to make up for the kind of shortage in the labour market that Hungary is now struggling with. Although a criticism is allowed here: you are the ones who have made laws on how to not work for pensioners, here I would like to take as an example the way they have intervened in the education system, and in essence a huge shortage of teachers has emerged. The other thing I have to say in this amendment is that the situation, the kind of emigration that we have seen in Hungary for years is that the number of young people who have migrated from Hungary and who can cause this kind of labour market shortage that we are now experiencing in Hungary is between 600 and 700 thousand. The President of the MNB could decide on a number of cases that have been decided by the Financial Stability Board since we have seen it in thousands of cases. This is no reason to withdraw powers. The powers to be devolved relate primarily to resolution powers, which would appear only to be governed by the President of the Central Bank or by the person designated by him after this amendment. As is known, the most well-known resolution case of the MNB is the public resolution of MKB Bank, and then the disputed privatisation, which is expressed in a 2015 SAO report as a criticism that it was essentially regular or not regular. We argue that it is really necessary to delegate these powers to the President of the National Bank of Hungary; I hope that the Secretary of State will answer this question as to why this must be done now. Another very interesting amendment in the law is that the mandate of the members of the MNB's Supervisory Board would be extended until the end of the year of the next parliamentary elections, until 31 December. Secretary of State, what's the need for this? We do not understand why they want to make this kind of amendment, why that system cannot work. I think that we will put forward an amendment to this so that they cannot do so. The scope of deposits not provided by the OBA has been extended by the proceeds of reinsurance undertakings and payment institutions, their own exchangers, which are justified as they are business operators. [[11.20]] The heirs are currently not entitled to the compensation amount up to EUR 50 000, which would open up to a maximum of three months from the date of access to the deposit. Up to now, this could be an acceptable measure. There are some of the 14 amendments that could be agreed with, but precisely because of the criticisms listed above, the new powers granted to the President of the Hungarian National Bank, the extension of the mandate of the Supervisory Board of the Hungarian National Bank, should not be included in this amendment of the Hungarian Socialist Party's mandate, in order to take this out of the legislative amendment itself. Of course, if these remain in it, Mr. Secretary of State, it is unacceptable for us to be able to vote in favour of this law. And of course, we see the same thing as we have seen many times in recent years, that in a huge large package, let us say that there may be positive changes in a salad law, but they put in amendments that are unacceptable to us, unacceptable to the opposition, and therefore, in this form, I think it cannot be supported. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2018-10-30-42	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr László Varju. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-10-30-43	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Among the beautiful quietly leaking government representatives, who should defend this bill later today, they will obviously find it difficult to defend this law. After all, I must continue in the tone that my fellow Member has just begun here, that it is indeed a sneering bill-modifying proposal, in which a lot of things have been trodden together and there is something in it that would otherwise be worth supporting, but there is something in it that would make it unacceptable otherwise. Therefore, the way they do it must be protested in itself. This is very wrong, and they put the opposition in the position that it should be rejected; even because, based on the experience we have so far, we have seen that if we have an amendment, then we are not going much further, and you do not want to take it into account. At the same time, you are in a very difficult situation because, second, I say the proposal made by the Government is sneaking because, in accordance with the rules and presentation of the European Community, as in the title of the law, it is about an amendment for legal harmonisation, it includes the possibility of establishing private pension funds in Hungary. Dear Secretary of State, You knew exactly what it was in 2011, because the idea and proposal of pan-European pension insurance had already come up, and instead of otherwise contributing to this and creating the possibility of self-care for the Hungarian people, instead you stopped this savings, the possibility of that, and you stole the 3000 billion forints that saved 3 million people. This is what you have done, and I must say now that the European Community represents the interests of the Hungarian people against you. Whatever you're saying, this is the case, but you can't avoid it right now. And yes, self-care will be possible within this framework, because your argument, by the way, Secretary of State, is true to you, only to draw conclusions previously, was wrong. After all, in an ageing society, and this is not only a Hungarian peculiarity, it is necessary to give people the opportunity accordingly, and this condition-making role of the state appears. It's just that now you're forced to do that. I would stay on this subject, although, as I said, there is more to this bill, but don't get away with it so easily that the fairy tale that you outlined here in 2011 will be forgotten, and the 3000 billion forints that were then people's savings, you used it quickly in a few years, a significant part of it was burned anyway. It was Mr. György Matolcsy who, by the way, at that time, as a minister, dreamed of this fairy tale in front of everyone, how good it would be if this happened. However, in 1998 I could say that as the forerunner of this, which you have brought here, the three-pillar savings option, which you have completed and eliminated in a few days, was launched. In the state register, the wealth that was stolen from the cash registers landed, while you knew precisely that the composition of Hungarian society was such that at this time the number of people who were going to retire will increase, and fewer people will pay in, and, as a result of your economic policy, very many people, millions of people have migrated from the country, and therefore, the amount that is missing in this way has become even greater. So your reference at the time is that private pension funds must be abolished because of the extra money to be put in there, my dear Secretary of State, clearly this change you made has not brought its result in any way. In addition, for the future, it is likely that by 2030 and 2040 very serious problems could arise in the pension system itself, the rate at which pensioners will be able to get a pension and what they will get from it. In the second half of the 2000s it would have been 300 billion forints a year, but by simplifying the pension and making it a single budget line, of course, in the near future, it is not expected to be a very serious problem under your governance. The bill that was passed, which, by the way, created a HUF 3000 billion fund for pensioners, was what you put into the state budget, and then, as I said, it was spent. Even though you had a promise... it is necessary to return here to what you promised and what it might bring if there is such a private pension fund savings. Because it was in your promise that everyone would have their own pension account, and this opportunity has been terminated. But now I have to say that it has been abolished once and for all, because here you do not know, nor do you want to produce, the data which, by the way, had been in the same framework from 1998 onwards. We are now once again in the position that, in the context of this amendment, we will be able to save our own savings. In addition to the fact that the lack of individual accounts may otherwise be unfair to individuals, there is yet another very serious danger, and this is that, after the liquidation of private banks, the full pension payment falls on the State, as I have just mentioned. Now you have created this trap, which you have created, which is what you are trying to escape from, it is true that this is just because, by the way, because of Community law, decisions taken in the European Community as a result of Community responsibility, it is necessary to give you this opportunity, and to do so, not only within the borders, but also beyond the borders. What is encouraging about this is that if this happens because I have no doubt about it, then they will not be able to touch it in their war against public debt and say, as a miracle weapon, that you will use it to reduce it, because we can remember: that is the only thing they have not used it, and they have not put it in the pension fund. So, overall, the program you were talking about was completely ineffective, and that fairy tale didn't turn out to be anything you guys were up to. That is why this part of the salad law, which gives us the opportunity to have savings here after European decisions and to be able to take care of ourselves in this way, must be welcomed. [[11.30]] As far as this area is concerned, as an important element of the Single Capital Markets Union, which now appears, I think that, regardless of your decision, this is now possible. But, unfortunately, in general, I have to return to the solution of using any of the squinting or salad solutions to make this draft law very doubtful how it could be supported. Therefore, with all due respect, Mr Secretary of State, I suggest that you proceed in line with the title. So what belongs to the harmonisation of laws, do what is outside of it, forget it, and allow Hungarian people to have the forms of self-care. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the lines of DK and LMP.]]
u2018-10-30-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the Dialogue Group is Mr Tamás Mellar. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-10-30-45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Once again, I am in a favourable position that the speakers before me have already said a lot of things, so I can be brief in my comments and try to be objective. I have no problem with the salad character of this law, as it is basically that 14 laws are being amended, which is essentially for harmonisation purposes. So I can support the intention itself and most of the amendments, because they are all necessary. However, I would like to highlight three very important areas that we cannot support, and what I believe is a serious threat. First of all, the most important thing is the change in the capital market, the regulation of the securities market, i.e. the securitisation of mortgage bonds. So this is a life-threatening amendment, and we remember it because not so long ago was the global economic crisis that broke out by the collapse of the Lehman Brothers store in September 2008. If you remember, in June 2008 Lehman Brothers' papers were still classified as 3A or A + rating, in which, by the way, the toxic mortgages that were already problematic and at the same time highlighted, well-debted things were packed together in a package. I think that we shouldn't go into this street at all, even if the European Union is trying to take on and continue this bad American practice. It is not necessary because, according to my knowledge, there is no significant liquidity shortage at the moment in Hungary, so there is no need for banks to be able to raise additional funds, since the issue of liquidity is currently adequate. So I think that this is a very important issue for our future, for our stability, for the stability of the country, because if this kind of facilitation happens, they should not have any doubts that businesses and constructions will appear that will pack up good investments with bad ones and try to sell this to unsuspecting customers, and the consequences of which, after a while, if a crisis occurs in the world economy, will continue to increase this crisis. The other thing is, it is not so important, but it is important that it is not appropriate to take centralization further. So anyway, the President of the MNB has a lot of titles, and he has a lot of options, and now, with this amendment, certain items are being removed from the Financial Stability Board, on the grounds that this is technical, and there are a lot of decisions that need to be taken here. I think that, if there are no other serious reasons to raise here, then this change, this amendment, is not necessary, and this is not justified. However, my third short comment is indeed technical, and it is very easy to remedy, and this concerns the MNB's supervisory board. There are conflicting things here. One proposal says that until 31 December of the election year, the Supervisory Board's mandate is up and running, and the other is that it is linked to the MNB's President's mandate, so as long as he is in office. Now these two don't overlap, and I think we should move in one direction or another. But it's pretty easy and pretty quick to sort out. I think that if the Government makes changes on these three points and the Secretary of State accepts them, then the Dialogue can support this package of proposals. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-30-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches, as we have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Attila Mesterházy, from the MSZP Group, applied for a two-minute speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-10-30-47	Thank you very much. I would like to respond to Mr Harghitai's sentences for a few sentences. Our problem with salad laws is not that there are salad laws, as my better fellow Member has said, but we object to the practice that you are consciously not necessarily in this proposal, but often confuse issues that give you the opportunity to create a communication and political space for yourself. So there is something in it that the opposition would like to support, because the purpose of the initiative or the text itself is indeed appropriate, and then consciously misses things that the opposition has not supported for many reasons. From now on, of course, the salad laws are not focused on one thing, they are not organized around a subject, as you have always said, but there are cases where completely unrelated questions are packed into it. So I just wanted to point out that it is absolutely legitimate for my better fellow Member to point out that, indeed, in many cases, this is consciously making the work of the opposition difficult. I know it's not their job to make our work easier, I just wanted to make it clear that it's not always so clear that a salad law can always be good, it's always around one subject, yes, in many cases we're faced with the fact that it has eligible goals and there are some that are less acceptable. As Tamás Mellár and the other speakers have said here, for example, there are some in this law that are eligible and which are less eligible and, of course, the decision is always much more difficult. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-10-30-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. A two-minute speech from the Jobbik Group will also be followed by Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát. Here you go.
u2018-10-30-49	Mr President, Dear House, First of all, I commend my fellow Member from KDNP for talking about professional issues, and if we continue our work well, there could be a professional debate here at the end. I very much hope, Mr President, that I will not be the next speaker in the ordinary way, but one of my fellow members in the government, because that means that the entire lead speaker group has been able to infertilize the government side. [[11.40]] The fact that I do not feel fortunate that the otherwise binding implementation will be carried out in a salad is precisely that the topics listed by us, the pan-European private pension product, the further expansion of the role of the MNB, and the mandate of the MNB supervisory board members, the only pro-government lead speaker who has touched on these issues in depth, simply did not mention all of them; the opposition reactions to these are certainly not, thus technically eliminating the possibility of a substantive debate. Once again, I would like to emphasise that when I respond to the pressure of the European Commission's idea of a pan-European private pension product here by the government, that it is good, of course, we support self-care, but why did you like to kill the housing savings business, kill it in two days, we cannot get a meaningful reaction to this. I'm not saying it's a lucky circumstance, because sometimes there's not much thanks in pro-government reactions, and there's not much professionalism in them, but I'm saying that the way to do it would be to have a meaningful professional debate here, without political adjectives and ratings. We are still open to this, with the hope that I will not be the next speaker in this debate, but that I will be preceded by a pro-government fellow Member. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-10-30-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. Since others have not applied for a two-minute speech, I would like to address Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát as a representative. Here you go, Congressman. [[Demercation from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2018-10-30-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, This is how the hopes go away, and we are trying to do our job conscientiously, and I think that from the pro-government side, it would be part of decent work that we do not put the various comments and ideas of opposition representatives in the same closing line. There are hundreds of thousands of voters behind us, more than one million voters in Jobbik's case. I think the pro-government voters would also be interested in, say, one and a half million pre-savvy housing voters, Fidesz-KDNP voters would also be interested to know why this very favorable, state-legged method was killed by the government in two days, because no government representative could give a meaningful professional answer. However, what we must talk about in the subject of this proposal, so that I do not overextend the framework of the general debate, is the further expansion of the role of the Hungarian National Bank. This is before us, and this is not a European proposal for harmonisation, it is not a mandatory transposition. This is about the fact that the Hungarian National Bank has issued a distress signal, which is a real signal, which is about the fact that the Financial Stability Board has to make thousands of decisions every year, not be able to, but must, according to the laws in force, and are practically unable to bear the burden. I can accept that. In this way, the President of the Hungarian National Bank would now be authorised, on the basis of a proposal from the Hungarian National Bank. It is also strange for me that the proposer's hand is leaning towards himself, but the fact is that here the President of the Hungarian National Bank is asking for permission to take certain decisions that previously fall within the remit of the Financial Stability Board, so that he will appoint a body or leader or a person with a mandate to act on these matters. The fact is that the MNB's operation is easy to get involved, so it is a legitimate basis for debate, but once again we are not going to have the professional debate about it in sufficient depth. After all, I am saying that, yes, the audit of financial companies must be further strengthened, and new monitoring methodologies must be introduced. But why don't we talk about the fact that, already in the time of the new MNB, what you liked to develop in this way could have happened in the series of Quaestor, Hungaria and other financial scandals that would have been unacceptable in a normally functioning market economy and contributed to the destruction of tens of thousands of our countrymen? In part, they are already in the period when the MNB sought to merge most of the consumer protection, and the Government of Hungary has made the necessary legislative changes, but the fact is that this consumer protection system has failed perfectly. It was precisely the Jobbik faction that, with its well-timed proposals, could have prevented the Quaestor scandal if those two dozen amendments had been adopted in good time by the pro-government fellow Members. The thing is, this didn't happen. So if we want to touch on the role of the MNB and its operation, we are open, but I have to say that hiding it in a salad law, among other EU regulations and other things, to modify the MNB's various ways of operating, it is quite an amazing way for me to see it. And it is also important to see that I usually have to share some findings about the banking sector with Mr State Secretary, or with the person who will give the closing remarks, since several directives, regulations or chapters to be implemented here affect the functioning of the banking sector. I'd like to tell you that I find the Fidesz-KDNP system of bank poaching outrageous. I'm glad you're here, Mr. Secretary of State Tállai, because we had an unfinished battle yesterday, and I'm glad you're already wooing with the clip, because my conclusion is that this is going to be a strong closing. Although I will no longer be able to respond to that, in the spirit of chivalry, the Secretary of State could press the button that does not yet shine red. I saw that you didn't press it, so I probably can't respond to what you're about to say. But I'd like to point to you, as one of the heads of the bankers, what you've been doing these past few years. First, they betrayed the foreign exchange credit victims. Let us begin by making it possible in 2001, with the knowledge of the then central bank managers and then government leaders, to achieve an amazing level of unilateral contractual amendments and to meet an amazing methodology. So that ghost got out of the bottle. Then governments called Balliberals committed an economic terrorist act that allowed the stock of dubious loans to increase to levels that had become unmanageable. In the period 2002-2010, however, I could not find from Mr Tállai State Secretary or his colleagues the strong opposition speeches that would have made Fidesz indicate that there was a huge problem, that intervention had to be made, and that the government at the time would have pointed out that foreign exchange lending would be a huge problem. We can't find your strong stand. After 2010, they were forinted at the market rate, and although they managed to regroup about a quarter of the stolen items, one third of them back to the people, the affected, the injured, and about two thirds of them were left by this government in a legal manner with the banks concerned. Mr. Secretary, think about this: if you accuse anyone with the support of banks, bankers, how credible are you? How much can you give your word after you have been actively involved, led by these banks to make and pass decisions that are collaborating with them? As a leader, you, along with your colleagues, have also been actively involved in the imposition of the transaction fee, with an annual burden of more than HUF 200 billion on commercial banks on which this burden has been imposed, passing it on to consumers, customers and stakeholders. You have not tabled an amendment, nor has your group tabled an amendment in order not to pass it on. Finally, as far as the banking sector special tax is concerned, much of this has been passed on. I'll tell you what the Jobbik package is, and I'm asking you to try to give me a professional answer on what you think about these points. I would like the bank tax of credit institutions to be raised to the previous level, i.e. to the 0.53 percent level, as there are unjustified record gains from commercial banks for which you have developed this very favourable, very friendly climate in recent years. So we want the banking sector special tax to rise back to the previous level. We would also like to see the credit institution's allowance abolished by the Fidesz government, so we are talking about tens of billions of forints, Mr Secretary of State, restored in the spirit of public burdens. That would be point two. As a third point, I would very much like their pact with the EBRD and the Banking Alliance to be broken, so they would abandon their commitment not to impose any additional burden on the commercial banks concerned in order to resolve the cause of the victims. This is a third, absolutely logical point. If you guys are doing some kind of anti-bank rhetoric, it might even fit in to kicking off the EBRD pact, although I'm telling you, this policy has been more of a two-shot policy in recent years. As a fourth point, I would like to call on the government to do a kind of consumer raid on the fact that the commercial banks involved, which we talked about, could incorporate a significant part of the special taxes into the price of their products or services. Here, by comparing the price structure of products and services from time to time, it can be found in seconds whether these installations were justified or not, behind them market processes or not, thus exposing this whole system. And, obviously, for the banking sector, it would be absolutely justified to reduce the burden on banks for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. I am not saying that we will achieve all this with simple maximization, let us say, on the basis of the size of the plant, although there have been such market considerations, I think that would be a bit of a far-reaching solution, but it is certain that, through the introduction of a duty-free bank account structure, it would be possible, in the long term, for both small companies and private individuals, to eliminate undue burden transfer. [[11.50]] In this way, Mr State Secretary, my request is, therefore, to provide meaningful professional responses to these five absolutely specific proposals which improve our net situation. I see that there is still no light on the red button indicating his speech, so this will now only happen in a closet, which I cannot respond to. But please try to act like a gentleman and give me substantive professional answers to the relevant professional points. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-10-30-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Congressman János Volner, you have the floor.
u2018-10-30-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, It is rarely possible for an opposition representative to be able to criticise the functioning of the credit institution sector and, in this context, the practical implementation of the principles set by the government. The first thing I would like to deal with is this package of comments relating to legislation on the tax system. From 2012 the Orbán government introduced the transaction tax institution in Hungary, i.e. in principle started to charge the credit institution sector with taxes. Officially, however, according to the law, the credit institution sector should be a taxpayer, acting as a liability, but in practice it can be concluded at this tax that transit taxation has taken place, i.e. the government has introduced a tax that banks could pass on to their customers without obstacles. Over 200 billion forints of this budget revenue was planned each year. In effect, when the banks were informed about the introduction of this new tax, they immediately sent out an invoice adjustment, namely a package change, in which they predicted that the transaction cost increase of exactly the amount of the transaction fee to be introduced could be booked to customers in the future. We predicted this, even as members of the Jobbik Group for the government. We have asked you to comply with the spirit and appropriations of the law, i.e. to prevent the credit institutions sector from burdening their burden on the population and businesses, but nothing has happened. The real burden of this more than 200 billion forints has become the population, as in fact only transit taxation has been carried out in this area. We agreed with the government's ambition that the banks, which were responsible for the credit institution crisis in 2008, should be involved with higher public burdens in the system of public burden-sharing, since banks can make transactions among themselves with which the profit centre is transferred from one country to another, with profits being taken away, and, in fact, most of their profits are taxed in offshore areas, with nation states being deprived of tax revenues. However, it was important to see that there was no lasting progress in this area. Quite rightly, however, the government has introduced the institution of a credit institution, but I ask you, Mr Secretary of State, what was the need to eliminate this. After all, the credit institution's allowance did not by accident involve the banks in the public burden-sharing, and it was roughly HUF 20 billion per year. This requires a specific, acceptable professional explanation as to why banks had to be exempt in this way. My further question concerns the fact that it was HUF 50 billion over a certain balance sheet total, the tax burden of the banks was 0.51 percent, and then it was reduced to less than half. I am asking, Mr Secretary of State, why banks had to be rewarded with a significant reduction in the burden when the annual profit of the credit institution sector reached HUF 700 billion; it was a significant amount of outstanding profits. The banks recorded record profits in Hungary, while the government has reduced significantly, I would like to emphasise once again that it is less than half the tax burden on banks with a balance sheet total of more than HUF 50 billion. I don't see an explanation for that either. What I see is that the government had a principled objective that aimed at a higher level of involvement of the multinational sector in public burdens. We agreed on that. He had another objective, which meant that whoever caused the credit institution crisis should also avoid the consequences. The banking sector itself, the domestic banks were involved in this, they should have avoided the consequences themselves, but here, too, the government has made a tax reduction over the years. In fact, there was an objective that would not be the public and businesses bearing these burdens, as we have seen in the case of the transaction fee, but the credit institutions themselves. Nor has any progress been made, since these public burdens have been passed on virtually without obstacles. We also need to express further concern that when the Hungarian National Bank generated a significant profit of more than HUF 500 billion from the exchange of foreign currency loans into HUF, the government did not help the foreign exchange lenders with the amount received, it did not provide this properly, but basically left this amount as pocket money at the Central Bank of György Matolcsy. At the time, I suggested that we follow the results accounting practice of the UK central bank in Hungary. There are very strict rules to account for the profits of the central bank in England and to account precisely for the expenses of the central bank, only targeted expenditure in England is permitted by the law. However, it is not something to buy various artifacts, castles and education for itself at the convenience of the central bank, and thus manage the taxpayers' money. I think there's some common sense in that, too. I note that once these central bank foundations exist, it could be created, not hide them behind foundational management, practically hiding from the public what is going on in these institutions. In this context, I also think it is very important to say that, when we assess the role of the central bank and we are talking about the activities of the central bank, we have made professional proposals on an ongoing basis. One of our proposals, for example, was that I, myself, lobbied a lot at central bank management in order to convert so-called two-week bonds into deposits. Progress has been made in this regard. If we present this to the public now, then we can see that people are particularly not interested in this, but if I tell you that during that period 4500 billion HUF was stationed in these two-week papers, then you can see how important we are talking about. I would therefore consider it important for us to move forward in these areas I have indicated, whether in the area of taxation or in the area of central bank income accounting. I note that originally these two-week-old papers were used to finance the excess liquidity of banks, not to provide a virtually riskless interest income equal to the basic interest rate to banks that do not even have to be residents in Hungary. This was also eliminated from Hungarian practice with a long lobbying. I consider it very important, Mr Secretary of State, that these points, which were specifically professional, were not political cuts, should be answered in substance at a further stage of the debate. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-10-30-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if they have anything else to say about the subject. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[András Tállai: Yes.]] Yes, he wants to answer. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-10-30-55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would first respond to Congressman Volner. Honourable Congressman, This isn't a tax dispute. That's four days later. And it's not even the hearing of the MNB's report, because it's been discussed by Parliament a week or so ago. I understand that you have time to come in and say this speech, but one word of it doesn't go with this bill. [[János Volner: Yes!]] And now I'm gonna show you which one it is. [[He's showing me a document.]] T/2924. The draft law amending certain laws concerning the financial intermediary system for the purposes of harmonisation has been discussed in this bill, not in the tax law and in the report of the central bank. [[12.00]] So, I'm sorry, stay here, and the next fourth item on the agenda will be the debate on the tax law, and perhaps it is appropriate for you to say so. But I apologize, I have nothing to do with Daniel Z. Carpathian's speech. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: I don't think everyone else is... the president is ringing.]] You can see that there's a disturbance in Jobbik, because your current representative, your former representative, doesn't know which bill we're discussing. [[Dániel Z. Kárpát: You may not be facing everyone on the highway, Mr. State Secretary, but you are going wrong!]] Why am I saying this? Among other things, I will give you an example, and then I will tell you more, because the pan-European pension is not part of the presentation. I don't know where the congressman got this from, but the European Union is still discussing it. [[Dániel Z. Kárpát: Because I was informed about it.]] And in a year or two, he might be here before the Hungarian Parliament. You have also confused the agenda points because the next item is the improvement and development of the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Do you know that these are related? The president's ringing the bell.]] The next item is the agenda. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Really?]] and you have to speak there. His one substantive statement, his sentence, was not, by the way, the bill before us. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Oh, come on! Oh, come on.]] But in a very interesting way, when you found out that the MSZP representative might have read the law and mentioned the regulation concerning the MNB, you woke up, joined up and said the same thing as the MSZP representative. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: This is a disgrace you are doing, Mr. Secretary of State. Sit down. The president's ringing the bell.]] The shame, I'm sorry, it's what you do. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Shame! Yesterday was a shame...]] that he's personal, he's sarcastic, he's cynical, and he hasn't even taken the bill into his hands. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: At least I'm not lying!]] and he's talking about something completely different. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: At least I'm not lying! I'm telling the truth!]] And then let's get to the house savings banks. I believe you're hurt by criticism, but that's what you've been doing all your life. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: At least I'm not lying!]]
u2018-10-30-56	Congressman!
u2018-10-30-57	Let's get to the house savings banks. Why do I say that you and you support the banking sector, the financial sector, if you want to restore the housing savings system with 30 percent state aid? They want it back, because you have tabled a bill to get back to the old order and even to start a referendum on the matter. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Exactly!]] This means that you want to support the foreign-owned banking system by referendum. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Jesus, Mary! Interjection in the ranks of Fidesz: Shame!]] because those four housing savings banks are essentially owned by both bank and financial investors, and the profits of which, by the way, was HUF 60 billion in the last ten years. [[Dr. László György Lukács intervenes.]] There were 60 billion extra-profits, of which 30 billion dividends were taken out and essentially put in pockets, they all cost private property. [[Dr. László György Lukács: What is this German phobia? Dániel Z. Carpathian: Terrible! The president's ringing the bell.]] The Hungarian savers and the Hungarian population received their own money, 70 percent and 30 percent were added by the Hungarian state. But what had to be produced over the years was put into pocket by these organizations, the organizations founded by the bank. You support this, so you and Jobbik... [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] You brought this subject here, it is not part of the agenda, but since you have again accused the government of supporting the banking system either way or undeservingly, [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That's right!]] So I was forced to respond. I thank Ildikó Bangóné Borbély for being able to deal with the bill. He didn't say a lot of good things about him, that's a fact, but his intervention, in which he laments the lack of television broadcasting, that he linked the bill to the emigration of labor, I don't understand. The securitisation ensures transparency. Re-institution is prohibited, it cannot be that which might cause a crisis or a problem, as Tamás Mellar mentioned. That's not what this is about. It is precisely that this regulation serves security. So I think it is an exaggeration to link this to any new financial crisis issue. Moreover, the Member is mistaken that the powers of the Financial Stability Board have been withdrawn, since it is not possible to remove final powers and can at any time be taken over by the Financial Stability Board; otherwise, in terms of resolution, it cannot be given power, which is solely the decision of the Financial Stability Board and cannot be the power of the President of the Central Bank. I would also like to reply to László Varju, since he has already spoken with enough substance and length. Thank you very much for dealing with the bill itself. Yet the most important part of what he said was that it hurt to nationalise the private pension fund. First he called it a stretch, then he said this money went to the state register. That's all right. You yourself predicted a crisis in the pension system to 2030-2040. Yeah, it would have been if the private pension system had stayed. With the state taking responsibility, there will be no crisis in the pension system. As regards the part of his speech that the European Union protects and allows Hungarian citizens to live on pension savings, this is simply not true, because there are still many forms of pension savings. The occupational pension, which is in this bill, is just a new option, and it has been the only one that has ever been in place; on the basis of the European regulation or directive, a stronger regulation will be put in place by law and, if we adopt it, by law. It links the occupational pension fund with the private pension fund, this conclusion is wrong, since the occupational pension fund is most parallel to the voluntary pension fund, and this system is also operating in Hungary. Overall, I thank you very much for the speeches, and I think that opposition speeches have also been instructive. Thank you very much to the pro-government speakers for their support, for the support of the bill, which I agree with on behalf of the government, because this is an important regulation to help consumers and financial services, and I would like to reiterate that its vote will serve to protect and support financial consumers. So I ask the majority of Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-30-58	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted on Monday 5 November at 4 p.m. Before we get to the next item on the agenda, let me know. I would like to inform you that, when deciding on the legality of the presidential decision on the exclusion of Mrs Demeter, the number of votes cast was wrongly announced. The number of votes cast is correct: 113 yes, 46 no and 0 abstentions. Thank you very much. A general debate on the bill amending certain laws relating to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary will follow until closure. The government referral is T/2938. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I now give the floor to Mr László György, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Your timeframe is 30 minutes, Mr. Secretary. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-10-30-59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The primary objective of the government's economic policy is to increase the standard of living of Hungarian families. In order to achieve sustainable wage growth, it is necessary to improve the situation of predominantly Hungarian-owned small and medium-sized enterprises, put domestic companies in a position and increase their added value. It is important that innovative and strong domestic businesses emerge from creative Hungarian ideas. Businesses who feel that Hungary is their home not only create jobs, but also see the lasting prosperity of the region and the country as valuable. [[12.10]] The number of domestic businesses is constantly increasing, with more than 690 thousand operating in Hungary now exceeding the pre-economic crisis value. More than 99 percent of the companies are SMEs, the predominantly Hungarian-owned small and medium-sized enterprises provide more than two thirds of the employees in the business sector. Our aim is to bring these micro, small and medium-sized enterprises closer to productivity, to catch up with large foreign companies and to increase their gross added value even further. We help domestic companies with all the tools available to us so that they can respond effectively and innovatively to the challenges they face. Following our comprehensive strategy to achieve these objectives, we have initiated the amendment of three laws. The first is the 2004 XXXIV on small and medium-sized enterprises and support for their development. In the case of law, four amendments are proposed. Firstly, we propose to amend the concept of related enterprises in order to bring it into line with the definition set out in the Commission Recommendation on the definition of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which should be applied in all policies, programmes and measures developed and implemented by the Commission for the benefit of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. On the basis of our policy, an undertaking is considered to be a related undertaking in accordance with the Commission's recommendation if it holds a majority of the votes in another undertaking. The amendment is a simplification for law enforcement by standardising the definition. Secondly, the amending proposal would extend the scope of the Enterprise Development Council to include an even wider number of stakeholders in the consultation on SMEs. The government considers it extremely important to have a continuous dialogue with representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises and business development organisations. One of the areas for this consultation is the Enterprise Development Council, which meets four times a year to discuss draft legislation and support programmes for SMEs. The third is that it requires a technical amendment that 94/2018 on the tasks and powers of the members of the government Minister for Innovation and Technology under the Government Regulation is a member of the Government responsible for economic development. It is therefore necessary to amend the designation of the Minister for the Coordination of State responsibilities for SMEs. The fourth: our last proposal for this law is for deregulation, the 2004 XXXIV on small and medium-sized enterprises and support for their development. Law 13 and 14. Article 4 of the Act provides for a reporting obligation for the manager of the allocated State Fund and the target forecast set in the central budget, the President of the National Bank of Hungary, the President of the Public Procurement Authority, the President of the Hungarian Central Statistical Office and the State Tax Authority. In line with the government's deregulation intentions, it is not justified to regulate the deadlines for reporting obligations by law, given that Article 5/2009 provides that: the government decree regulates the issue in detail. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The second part of the bill is specifically aimed at improving the situation of construction operators, so we are initiating the amendment of two laws. I will therefore continue with the second of the three major package of amendments, according to which our proposal for a regulation on national standardisation was published in the Official Journal of the European Union, published in the Official Journal of the European Union, published in the Official Journal of the European Union, published in the Official Journal of the European Union, published in the Official Journal of the European Union, published in the Official Journal of the European Union. It is an important element of support for domestic SMEs to have easier and cheaper access to international standards for the performance of their activities. In many cases, a designer uses 30-40 standards at the same time, with total costs of up to HUF 1 million per year or up to HUF 2-3-4 million; this burden would be alleviated by the bill. Since the domestic standardisation organisation is entitled to sell standards, it is possible and necessary to support the provision of standards at reduced prices through State resources. The central budget is available for this purpose at HUF 100 million per year. The legislative power contained in the proposal is necessary to enable a technical committee to take a decision on the scope of preferential rules with the involvement of experts. The reduced-access standards strongly support the competitiveness of the relevant industrial players, especially construction companies. It would also be the Commission's task to assist in the establishment of technical specifications that are not at the level of standards, but which are essential for everyday operation, in cooperation with the Hungarian Standards Board. Our last proposal, our third proposal, is the XXXIV of 2013 on the organisation involved in the settlement of certain disputes relating to the design and execution of construction works and the modification of certain laws in relation to the prevention of chain debts and late payments. amendment of the law. A clarification of the legislative text is needed in relation to the case brought on the basis of the expert opinion of the certification body. Based on the expertise of the expert body that has been operating effectively since 2013, small and medium-sized enterprises, individual companies and private customers are increasingly taking action. The purpose of the amendment of the law is not only to refer to the expert body's opinion in actions relating to the claim for remuneration, but also to the claim for performance. In the case of a fee claim, typically, the contractors of the works, while the customers sue for the claim for performance. The amendment will also allow the affected small and medium-sized enterprises, the private customers of the building sector, to settle disputes more quickly. Dear Parliament, I think it is very important to draw attention to the fact that small and medium-sized companies are more vulnerable than larger companies by virtue of their size and capital strength. In terms of their successful connection to the new markets and the recovery of their old markets, the impact of public development policy programmes and the supportive legislative environment is much greater than for large companies. The bill is another step in the long series of measures leading to the development of the competitiveness of the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises sector, the strengthening of Hungarian companies, and thus to the achievement of a growing domestic standard of living. In view of all this, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-30-60	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr András Aradski. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-10-30-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The bill before us envisages the amendment of three laws, as described in the expozee. The aim of the legislation on small and medium-sized enterprises is to facilitate the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary and to provide appropriate legal frameworks for their development. However, it is worth reviewing the role of small and medium-sized enterprises in the Hungarian economy before presenting the bill. Small and medium-sized enterprises employ 70 per cent of the workforce, so 70 per cent of the workers find their jobs and salaries here, including their bread; this is only 30 per cent for large enterprises. On the other hand, their contribution to GDP is less than 52.5 percent, while large enterprises contribute 47.5 percent to GDP with a 30 per cent employer. I must say that this is a ratio that also shows that there is an important reserve for small and medium-sized enterprises to increase the development potential of the Hungarian economy. Although I have to add that the contribution rate to GDP is not much worse than the EU average, because it is 57.4 percent compared to 52.5 percent in Hungary. Since 2010, the Hungarian government has had an important objective of supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, creating the right economic and economic climate. I can summarize this in a broad sense only because this was the backbone of the tax reduction: in 2010 the company tax on small and medium-sized enterprises decreased from 19 per cent to 10 per cent, and in 2017 it decreased to 9 per cent. [[12.20]] It should also be added that their average tax burden compared to 52 percent in 2010 is 39 percent today, in 2018. This also shows that they can carry out their activities under more favourable tax conditions. Appropriate changes were also made to the tax system in relation to the minimum wage increase that started before 2017, and the percentage of the so-called employer's contribution has been steadily reduced, and by 2022 we will have a decrease of up to 8.5 per cent. In addition, it should be added that at the time of the economic crisis, after 2010, the job creation programme was launched, which provided additional tax reductions for small and medium-sized enterprises where public workers, public workers, young people, long-term unemployed and workers over 55 years of age are employed. This has also ensured that their competitiveness is strengthened. And let us not forget the powerful help of the Hungarian National Bank, the implementation of the growth loan programme. All these measures have ensured that small and medium-sized enterprises have been strengthened over the last eight years and can contribute further added value to economic growth in Hungary and to maintaining the quality and proportion of employment and reducing unemployment. After such a precedent, it is worth examining the bill before us. This bill is in the same order, the same target, for the same general purpose, to increase the competitiveness of the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: Law on national standardisation provides for the possibility to assess the number of standards most used by the body to be set up and to create the conditions for access to these standards and the possible free use of them. In this respect, it was preceded by a government decision in 2017, which explicitly required the government and the wallets to serve such policy objectives by facilitating the application of standards. I consider it very important to amend the law on the settlement of disputes on the design and construction of buildings. This was a 2013 bill. I remember that very serious professional work and discussions preceded the bill before its adoption. I have to say that this has been a success, because from 2013 onwards there has been a radical decline in the number of circulars, and I have to say that, in a macroeconomic sense, we cannot talk about construction circles in Hungary today. In addition to economic growth, it also required that the courts be able to settle disputes quickly, effectively and with appropriate professionalism. This kind of judicial control or judicial threat has greatly contributed to the spread of voluntary delivery. Looks like that was necessary. It is very right to state the reasons for the proposed legislation to extend the application of the opinion of the Committee of Experts to other areas by the legislator. For example, I am also thinking of references to customer delay, because at the moment, only rather cumbersome procedural procedures can enforce the related claims for damages or other reparations. With this bill, I believe that this wider application option will continue to ensure the security of participation in economic life for small and medium-sized enterprises, the spread of enforcement practices and thus the profitability of businesses. There is an important technical amendment in the third proposal to support the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in XXXIV of 2004 The aim is to amend the law. Here, in some respects, the amendment of the provisions on the tasks and powers of the members of the government justifies the amendment and the adaptation of the definition drawn up and developed by the European Commission in Hungary became necessary. Overall, I see that this bill will bring about positive changes in important areas for small and medium-sized enterprises, which face major challenges for the Hungarian economy of the future. The future is also to increase growth potential for them, as much as possible the spread of IT-based corporate governance. Many have mocked or weirded out one of Minister Palkovic's sentences, saying that every business should have an engineer. But I think that this can indeed be a forward-looking policy of application, because they can play a major role not only in IT-based business management, but also in the spread of digitalisation, as well as in joining programmes such as the Hungarian Development Bank's loan programme, which can provide SMEs with an interest rate of 0 per cent to acquire assets. The development of tools through the GINOP programmes is also available for the development of competitive companies. I consider it very important and the government also considers that productivity growth in small and medium-sized enterprises is very important. This is the future, because in the labour market situation, too, many small and medium-sized enterprises are able to take people in public work to the world of market work, for example, to remedy labour shortages. However, this requires State aid. I am thinking, not primarily, of financial support, but of legislative conditions, of a change of approach that will help us to ensure that we have remained in the world of public work, but that we are not able to provide a highly qualified workforce with the possibility of re-training, of finding the right place to work, and that we can help small and medium-sized enterprises to respond to this challenge. Overall, the Christian Democratic People's Party can support the bill before us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-30-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-10-30-63	Mr President, Dear House, I hope that we will be part of the professional debate on Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. I would like to say that mKKs are known to employ more than two thirds of the workforce in Hungary, but less people know that they produce half of the added value in the order of magnitude. I would also like to say that this sector accounts for more than 99 percent of the businesses that work. A lot of people in Hungary tend to divide the micro, small and medium and multi-segment segments in the light of dual economic policy. At the same time, the key to Hungary's success is clearly two factors: on the one hand, the multi-parties concerned should be pushed under public burden-sharing and, on the other hand, Hungarian companies should be connected to the value chain at the highest possible level. Perhaps this is the second point where there are clear shortcomings in Hungary. Even in the case of a reduction in corporate tax, we have already seen that, while it provides multi-company benefits, it is actually creating a tax environment for one of the most favourable multi-company companies in Europe, while, in the case of small and medium-sized enterprises, it is essentially only a cosmetic mitigation. I do not think that this is necessarily healthy. It is not healthy either, because the clearly demonstrable competitive disadvantage that Hungarian businesses face is not only costing Hungarian jobs, but it can also amaze the emigration spiral by the fact that many entrepreneurial Hungarian young people simply cannot find their calculation at home. I can support 70-80 percent of the package before us, by the way, and I am proud to do so. Obviously, if the Small Business Development Foundation is added to the tasks of the Enterprise Development Council or the standardisation body in a positive direction, I would say that we are talking about eligible processes. [[12.30]] I'm more concerned about what's missing from this package. I would be able to support it with a good conscience if the very extensive level of administrative, bureaucratic burdens would finally begin to degrade. It is worth examining the relevant statistics that the time spent on taxation and various declarations is not only the EU average but also above the V4 average in Hungary, and there is no substantial shift in this area in the last eight and a half years. It is clear, however, that the system of returns, licensing and registrations could be simplified, and quite simply a common platform and user-friendly design has not been established in most cases. I don't want to quote beer salads and bring in past, past political products, but it is quite certain that if we make concrete proposals, we expect meaningful, concrete professional responses from the government. How, for example, could employment administration be simplified in the easiest way? Clearly, the possibility of online or mobile phone administration is extended to the widest possible range. However, I do not see any traces of this in government policy. I haven't seen an undersecretary's professional treatise that would explain, say, what plans are available stepwise in this area over the next five to six years. I would also like to say that Jobbik had a previous proposal on the establishment and licensing of the site, to be more precise: making it simpler. We would like to abolish the levies to be charged here on the one hand, where appropriate, and simplify the whole procedure in such a way as to eliminate possible abuses, of course. So, in terms of typical Hungarian entrepreneurial life situations, we would like to take a lot of benefits across, and we would be interested to know what the members of the government, who are in a massive majority, feel about it at the moment. For in this cycle, this is likely to go through the system if some kind of agreement is reached in this area. Many Hungarian entrepreneurs report difficulties in obtaining different ratings. Not only does the procedure need to be simplified here, but the fee for obtaining ratings could indeed be made from state resources, where appropriate. After all, businesses often stand for six months, for a year simply because a similar paper is missing from the repertoire, it is not for professional reasons that all this is missing, but the slowness of administration that brings the process to this. We have already mentioned the use of corporate motor vehicles in several debates, where regulation could also be streamlined, processes simplified and unjustified burdens no longer present in developed market economies. Fifthly, the process of registering companies itself is also an issue that needs to be simplified and accelerated. The declarations could be standardised on a single common platform. These are old business development debates that we have conducted, to be more precise: we have tried to conduct several times in this House, we have rarely found understanding ears. The disadvantage of today's debate is that, in general, such debates after 9 p.m. are those where only the professional barbarians really stay there, and perhaps a little of their professional face comes to the fore. However, I do not give up hope, Mr Secretary, that they should be able to respond to these five, well-defined, actually unpoliticated professional proposals, whether the debate is yet, not to say that I do not experience this in the heat, but in the course of the debate; because if they do, then we too can live with a kind of reciprocation. However, there is one point that I would like to say a few more sentences about. This is a proposal concerning the expert opinion of the certification body, I can say that it is a package of proposals. Here there is an identity between us, because we have tried to intervene in the problem of chain debts and circumferential debts on countless occasions, and preventing chain debts and whitening of the economy is indeed a point that we could carry through this system. Jobbik's proposal, for example, in the field of construction, was a construction authority that could get out of the site, and if it finds traces of similar chain debts, and that Hungarian people, Hungarian small businesses and small businesses are working, but the price of their work is not paid, or they do not want to pay, then they can also reach the entire project freeze at official level. Obviously, my aim is not to stop projects in a mass in Hungary because a public authority comes and freezes up, but only our legal system works that way, fear of sanctions in itself may be enough, it may be sufficient to reduce the mass of abuse to small business operators to zero if necessary. A similar system of official measures can be found in the German language area. I believe that this proved its economic success, and obviously it would be possible to hold a professional lawyer's debate on its integration into the legal system, but since I am not a professional lawyer in the field, I would therefore refrain from making the arguments that can be put forward here. At the same time, I consider the subject to be particularly important. On the other hand, in the case of circumferential debt, it would be possible to separate those affected in the NAV database now, and in extreme cases the tax number of those affected could also be suspended. I would also like to say that if someone consciously pursues similar practices, thus damaging Hungarian businesses or not paying them, or fleeing to liquidation, and the rest of them, the tax number would clearly imply that the company concerned cannot conclude a new contract or undertake any further work, thus not participating in further damage to Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. But in order to send a positive message, I clearly believe it is necessary and I maintain that temporary liquidity can be provided for companies that operate fairly but are still in difficulty. So there must be an institution with a public background that can be turned to in good faith, and in the event of temporary liquidity disruption, it can provide a positive assistance that is not necessarily in the interest of the economic sector concerned, but also in the interests of other Hungarian companies who join or join the chain. You know many stories, too, when, in fact, dozens of companies have fallen because of the abuse of one of the chain members, people have been laid off from their jobs. To prevent this, not too deeply interfering with market economy processes, but sometimes helping me feel the place for a similar system. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-30-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Attila Gelencsér. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-10-30-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The government, in conjunction with the Fidesz fraction, considers strengthening the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprise sector as a priority. To this end, the main objective of business development policy is to increase the added value of domestic companies by strengthening the investment, productivity and competitiveness of domestic companies. In recent years, the government's business-friendly policy and cooperation with the business sector have made great progress in many areas. It is not only said that entrepreneurs pay less tax every year, but also that Hungarian companies pay the lowest, 9 percent corporate tax in the European Union, for example. Both the economic results of the government's actions, the stability and balance of growth, show that the country is moving in the right direction. It is welcome that the government is particularly supportive of SMEs' potential for growth, including by facilitating access to finance, using EU funds for economic development, supplier development, support for construction, development of the corporate environment and the development of vocational training. We all remember that this wasn't always the case. Thanks to the failed economic policy of socialist governments, the measures taken by the then government were exhausted in the tax increase: for example, the increase in the VAT rate by 5 percentage points, the increase in the eva rate by 10 percentage points and the introduction of new taxes, such as interest rates. [[12.40]] The Hungarian economy was weak, the situation of SMEs was almost hopeless. Luckily, it's all in the past. Both the government and the Hungarian National Bank have taken measures to put Hungarian-owned SMEs and the export sector in position. The government intends to further improve the competitiveness of the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises sector. To this end, measures under the draft law would be taken. With these objectives in mind, the proposal is aimed at amending certain laws relating to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary, including an expert committee setting out the most extensive construction standards for which there is the greatest market demand, may be established on the basis of the authorisation provision to be laid down in the National Standardisation Act. The members of the Technical Regulatory Committee would be representatives of professional representative bodies other than those of the public administration. The standards they choose would be given preferential access by the industrial companies concerned, which would substantially promote their competitiveness. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It is well known that small and medium-sized enterprises play an important role in the country's income production and employment. This has been said before. Given the fact that they play their part in creating jobs, it is of particular importance to increase the competitiveness of these businesses. At present, however, Hungarian businesses are facing challenges such as increasing productivity, addressing labour demand and, not least, improving the competitiveness already mentioned. Overall, the proposal presented by the portfolio therefore serves the objective of further improving the competitiveness of this sector, increasing employment and increasing the country's growth potential. I would ask my fellow Members, like the Fidesz fraction and the KDNP, to support the proposed bill. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-30-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. You have the floor, please.
u2018-10-30-67	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Dear fellow Members, I didn't want to go along with this law to fight the Fidesz Members of Parliament here, but let me tell the speaker before me that after eight years we still have the MSZP to govern, I think it could be forgotten. Now we've entered the 9th year when they're on the wheel, and I think pointing back is just for you guys, pointing back at yourselves. In this legislative amendment, we could say that we are talking about a very important amendment of the law, we should be more concerned with small and medium-sized enterprises and businesses in Hungary, about the problems they are facing today, and how we can help them to be as effective as possible. But it must be stated, and I think that we opposition representatives agree that what is in this law is not the point, but what is left out of it again is what it is that can help small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary most today. We are always talking about what is the first thing that the government can offer them: a reduction of public burdens, let us say, employee contributions. I will not now list how the burden on employers and workers has increased year after 2010 as well. How to encourage it; it was mentioned in the KDNP keynote speaker's speech on how to encourage it in Hungary today. We can now say for each law that Hungary is in serious labour shortages. One part of the solution could be to bring public workers back to business. I don't think the government has succeeded in this in the last eight years either. If we look at the percentage of public workers who were able, say, to work in the competitive sphere, I think we can say quite hard enough that the number of public workers from this vicious circle, let's say, in the competitive sphere or even in the state sphere, is constantly below 10%. This is a very difficult issue, and this should be more dealt with by the government. The Fidesz-KDNP government should seriously examine what causes public workers to lose their number to hundreds of thousands of people a year, in essence, to eliminate the kind of labour shortages that we now face every day. In the lead-up of the State Secretary, it was said that the main objective of putting Hungarian companies in position, supporting families is to take government measures, putting construction players in position and reducing the burden on small businesses. Here, allow some criticism now, because we are only politicians. I would like to ask you who is involved in putting the construction players in the position. Because I think we could list about three companies in Hungary, which are the three companies that have been in position in Hungary for more than eight years. The same applies to private companies, including private companies. If we see public procurement, we see government orders, we monitor the drawdown of European Union funds, then we can say that, of course, small and medium-sized enterprises, which are worth hundreds of thousands, are given the opportunity to apply for tenders or even for state orders, but we see that fat, big bites are torn down by companies close to the government. Secretary of State, we really need to change that. We could also talk about this in front of me, my good fellow Member, about the fact that to date the round-line debt has not ceased in the construction sector, but it can be found not only in the construction sector, but also in other business segments. In essence, we are not only talking about circumferential debt, we are talking about the addiction that arises when main contractors win a serious tender, and how subcontractors dribble money back or not back, what is going on in Hungary today around investments, and how they eviscerate, say, small and medium-sized enterprises below these projects. Allow some criticism of the legislative amendment before us. I think we agree that there is a need to talk about it in any way and to take measures that reduce the burden of entrepreneurs and businesses and try to make their work easier, but I would like to read some thoughts about the bill here. The amendment to the law on national standardisation on which we are critical - a few thoughts. The proposed tasks of the Technical Regulatory Committee may give rise to the establishment of technical specifications for the benefit of specific groups. Please reassure me, Mr Secretary, that this will not really happen, that further regulations will give us the opportunity to do so. It is not clear to itself the justification for setting up the MSZB, either, in addition to the MSZT. It may have a bureaucracy-enhancing effect or make it possible to display partial interests. Is this necessary in addition to the current regulation to create another regulatory body? When we have been constantly discussing the reduction of bureaucratic burdens in recent years, does the entrepreneurial sector need to be kept to a minimum, do we need to create another body over them? There is also an incomprehensible change in the provision on enterprises linked to SMEs, and the following sentence is added: an undertaking holds the majority of the shares, shares and votes of another undertaking, and so far the regulation has been dispositive, since the majority of the voting rights could also be held by the owner with a minority shareholding. [[12.50]] That is to say, an undertaking in which another undertaking has majority ownership but minority voting rights does not qualify as a related undertaking. While this does not contradict the EU Recommendation, for example, when applying for EU proposals, an undertaking which will no longer be an SME can qualify for the provision in force. We hope that Mr Secretary of State will also give a reassuring answer that it is not a typo or a carelessness, and that this error will be eliminated. The further expansion of the Business Development Council as a consultative body with a foundation set up in part by government agencies and ministries is unprovoked, the Small Business Development Foundation - and the organization of which József Pálinkás was president is removed from the council led by József Pálinkás. I think it is necessary to reduce the burden on small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary, that the situation that Mr. Secretary of State has spoken about and pro-government politicians can really happen, and not just a very narrow circle can benefit from the benefits that we can experience every year in Hungary. I believe that if Mr Secretary of State gives a reassuring answer to the criticisms raised, then it is considered to support this law in a positive direction. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-10-30-68	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr László Varju. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-10-30-69	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I was wondering if we could go further in the mood with which our pro-government colleagues and secretary of state have led this up: everything is nice and clear, we could go this way, because 690 thousand businesses feel that they actually have every opportunity to conclude and operate contracts. Then, of course, if we scrape a little and look behind it, honourable Members, then of course, they got a loan, some of the 690 thousand were 40,000, who could otherwise participate in the growth credit programme. They received 2,800 billion forints. They're probably, like, a lot of them or a lot of them are fine. This, let's say, 1 percent, 400 businesses must be doing very well, because they are connected to themselves, and they get exactly what they need, and they get the contracts they need. So, my question, and not just a prank, is that I'm interested in 650 thousand businesses, and I'm trying to show them some of their difficulties, but since there really are only a few things in the legislative proposal that are in front of us, so I'm also trying to say something in the context of the general debate that can be linked, so that they don't end up accusing me of something completely different than what's actually in the legislative proposal. Because if we simplify it, then this proposal is about setting up a committee, bringing together something to get data from the minister, and, by the way, clarifying some draft laws. That is all that you have just submitted in the interests of small businesses under such a title as a bill amending certain laws relating to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. I respectfully say that this is very little again from the side of the 650,000 small businesses that, if we are proud of the fact that most of the people are employed by them, they give most of the added value, then something should be done for what is affecting them, and what can change their situation. Of course, there are also special methods for this when the government and the Fidesz fraction move forward together. Yesterday we saw the result of this in a vote, when, as a result of the strange mergers, those who have gained benefits succeed, it seems now to the prosecution, too. But let's consider this an anomaly that you, who, as acknowledged, knew about this process, have now been put out at least. Well, let's look at this salad law in a few ways. Here is the first point in which you order the Hungarian National Bank, the tax authority, the KSH, to provide data to the Minister. Well, all right, serve me, but with all due respect, it would also be nice if this 650,000 companies had access to important data. If you have been ordered once, and every business has to pay the chamber membership fee, and the Chamber has billions of dollars in revenue, this story is already under manual control, I would like to say with all due respect to help market players access an entrepreneurial database in which they can otherwise function as partners. I might even be able to provide this information, which would not only be given to the Minister, but also to help businesses in this international outlook, and even to inform them about our businesses, Hungarian businesses in English, and to take advantage of the possibility that we are part of a 500 million market, and to support and give businesses an opportunity to do so. Because if you look at it, one of the biggest problems with the growth of these businesses and the possibilities of not seeing enough opportunities is in this area. I agree with the Secretary of State on the protection of intellectual property, the knowledge of international patenting procedures, both for smaller companies and in this sense. But then let's go one more step further, and let's look at how the business offices dealing with this are accessible to businesses, try to make provision for them, help them, because the performance that comes out of these businesses as an idea and there are a number of things that can be used, I think it is worth using in this respect. I would like to draw your attention to this area: if you want to provide information to businesses, so again I would like to say not only to the Minister, then, by the way, these international information, not only in inter-company relations, but also in the knowledge that can be obtained from it. The purpose of this database could be to provide services to the company concerned, to assess competition and to provide very wide-ranging solutions in this respect. I am not talking about it now, because there are special solutions here to how widespread and well-known access to EU funds and other resources is, once again, within the framework of 650,000 businesses. For them, I think that there is still work to be done here, which is worth even initiating a legislative amendment, just to help companies know about the research and development results, the possibility of access to resources, because I think that a significant part of them suffers from the lack of this information. I would understand your answer if you said that the Chamber would contribute to this, but I see that you are unable to solve this task. And since you tend to want to centralize and solve good things, if you have given such a title to this law, please, even under such a salad law, resolve this by amending three laws here, so that you can channel it here and take this story into your hands in this sense. I'm also saying this because in my constituency in Újpest, meeting the entrepreneurs there, I can tell you what they're complaining about or what's wrong with them. [[13.00]] And I could tell you this for a long time, but I won't do it, and I'll spare you that, because I believe you have this knowledge, but there are two things that I would like to highlight from this. One is that if you want to do good for businesses, you should include in this law the abolition of the chamber membership fee, and in this case you will certainly be praised, not only for 40,000 businesses, but for much more. We have to stop this story. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] It is just because and this is the other area of this matter, which is linked to control; there is clearly a practice in which businesses are persecuted by the fact that the main purpose of the control is to collect revenue from some kind of punishment for the Treasury. Well, that's worth it... I suggest that you make an urgent change, and more than once in one and the same enterprise, you don't need to limit yourself, be a warning, and otherwise you'll have to hit people who don't comply repeatedly. In conclusion, I can tell you that compulsory membership of the Chambers of Commerce and Industry and the Chamber of Agriculture must be abolished, that companies should be exempt from compulsory, non-profitable membership fees and should be organised on an economic and voluntary basis. And if you'll allow me one more piece of advice, I'll say this in a way that I don't necessarily think that we should put forward an amendment, because you won't accept it, so I'm not trying to do this now, but if you provide training, support and help from marketing skills, you will make a significant contribution. Then, if I were to get back in the mood that you started, I could probably say that businesses are the engines of the market economy, the keepers of the country's well-being, and I could continue to do this. But unfortunately, I have to say that it is clear that the problem in this law is not what is in it, but what is not, and even though it is given an address with a voice, you will not be able to help businesses in this way. Therefore, I have to say that your communication... and I am referring specifically to Minister Varga, who, referring to the recent report of the World Economic Forum, says that we have moved forward 12 places in a year, and the Ministry of Finance has also ordered a special communication on what progress they have seen in competitiveness, but I respectfully indicate that on one side, as the discussion has shown here, he has acknowledged that the clarification of the calculation and classification also plays a role in the fact that something that seems to have taken place, but I do respectfully indicate that if this is done with the old one, then we are exactly where we were. So here is a legislative proposal, you know exactly that for a decade now we are not making any real progress, with the use of several thousand billion forints, there is no competitiveness improvement in businesses, then, frankly, it doesn't matter that this bill or something else is being brought here, it doesn't make sense, I have to say that you are unable to provide any help to 650 thousand companies and give any opportunity to help anyone but yourself. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-10-30-70	Thank you very much, Congressman László Varju. The next lead speaker, Congressman Antal Csárdi, may be Other Politics.
u2018-10-30-71	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, According to the title of the bill submitted, it serves the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary, but in my view and according to the programme announced earlier by the LMP, it would also be more effective than what you are drawing up in this bill. It is proposed to establish a new committee, whose precise function and task we do not know, but we know for sure that they will be elected for five years, it is a panel of five, and of course we know from it that Minister Palkovic will appoint his members. Dear House, I am sure you know the joke that camels are a horse designed by a committee, and I think that this also fits perfectly with this bill, because it sounds very nice, there will certainly be a lot to start with as a result of the work of this committee, only real and meaningful improvements cannot be expected by SMEs to whom they would otherwise like to help under the title of the law. We believe that the establishment of this committee is not the most necessary step for SMEs, it could be a measure to be referred to, or to produce new studies and publications, but I do not think that this will bring about a meaningful change in the situation of SMEs. On the other hand, according to LMP, small and medium-sized enterprises should be treated as the most important strategic partner. This requires lasting positive relations for them, and since the success of this sector is the key to our future, we must not support the sector in a campaign way, but in a continuous way, I think that protecting SMEs is our priority. We know exactly what a disadvantage they are in with a multinational company, and we also know precisely that if the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises is not increased in substance, this competitive disadvantage will affect the solvency that will enable it to produce the payable salary of SME employees. I think, as has been said many times, that more than two thirds of workers are employed by SMEs, which is four fifth in the competitive sector. So I think that this should be a shared responsibility and a goal for all of us. One of the most important steps to do this must be to clean up public procurement, which must also be opened up to small businesses. Another major problem is that SMEs are unable to obtain resources that could greatly help these businesses operate or develop. Small businesses have been given a strong emphasis on LMP policy before, so they should be supported, but we believe that the creation of a committee will not solve these problems, so we should tackle this problem on a systemic basis, and not with such a salad law... with three ideas, in front of the House. It's no use, fellow Members. Either we rethink the whole thing conceptually, and we think that otherwise we are providing substantial help to this extremely large occupational layer, or these tiny steps, which take one step forward, two steps backwards, and have happened in the last decades, will not be a real help. The submission of the bill proves that you can see that this sector needs to be developed, and it is also necessary here to be successful businesses, but let us see whether we believe in the same way why it is a priority to improve the situation of small Hungarian entrepreneurs. The most important and fundamental: a stable, sustainablely successful economy must rely on domestic resources, and since small businesses are the backbone of the national economy, about three-quarters of those working in the competition sector are employed by them, so their role is particularly pronounced and this is even more pronounced in less-rich areas. Due to their size, this type of business best achieves sustainable farming, local operations, but unfortunately, this is not going to work on its own or very hard. I think it would also be worth talking to all Members from government to opposition with such small businesses, because then they would hear the problems they have been saying constantly, day by day, not only since the last four, not only the last eight, but practically since the regime change. I think that it is very important that they receive the corporate tax relief and that the decisions that now serve the interests of multinational companies are finally in their interests. [[13.10]] If we are talking about problems, then it is worth considering the reasons that cause these problems. One of the most outstanding examples, which is also a problem, is that the multinationals receive multiples of subsidies, and because the assessment is completely uneven, this will result in a completely false and distorted economic structure. It is worth watching that while a multinational company receives between HUF 10-15 million and HUF 30 million for one employee, the upper limit is 3 million for small businesses. The only reason a multi-company gets ten times as much as a small enterprise to employ a person is because he is in a position and because you support the multinationals, no matter how much you say and communicate that you are partners with small businesses. The high administrative burden is the next problem that needs to be done, because these burdens and the tax burden associated with it often lead to black jobs for micro-enterprises that are difficult to operate, and it is not in anyone's interest, it is not in the interests of the small business, because it lives in fear, it knows precisely that it can be caught at any moment, and it is not good for the economy either. We therefore believe that a solution must be found to prevent micro-enterprises from being forced into the grey or black economy through competitiveness. That's what we all want. What causes even greater problems, and what the LMP is constantly saying, is inadequate education. The education and vocational training systems support multinational companies, and this is precisely the result of the serious shortage of professionals that we are experiencing, resulting in a further increase in the scale of emigration. These are the real problems that could indeed help small and medium-sized enterprises by changing them. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Dear House, What should be done then, of course, in addition to the establishment of the committee and these additional actions? I think it's worth watching. In the first step, the subsidies must be balanced, my fellow Members, the multinationals will receive up to ten times the aid for so-called job-creating investments, and as long as this aid is so distorted, no small enterprise will be competitive. Several small amounts of aid must be granted, the aid currently available often provides for huge expansion and a commitment with a huge administrative burden. The organic development of small businesses should be supported, not the forced growth that went bankrupt in a few years' time. To transform public procurement, I think there will be another item every day about why this is important. The number of possible sub-contracting levels should be limited, with a maximum of two levels below the winning company. This would also encourage companies to build a real, permanent structure and not to do the work by fast-appearing and quickly disappearing companies, and this would also limit the Mészáros Lőrincek, of course, who will win the public procurement, and then, after the 10-50 percent smudge, they will have a small enterprise do the same. The fourth thing that I think should be done is that small businesses can be competitive or that their competitiveness can be improved, that is to tackle the shortage of professionals, and that today's transformation of dual vocational training for multinationals is to be done. Due to shortcomings in small businesses and vocational training, small businesses can rely only on their own trained workforce, but they are sucked away after a few years by the big ones or emigrated. Small businesses in Hungary need more flexible, multi-faceted and better-paid professionals; disengaging public education from its main current needs to be reversed. The 18-year-old obligation must be the basis for this work, because if everyone has a graduation and comes out to the labour market with the highest level of education, it promotes later re-training and lifelong learning. I think that this is again the responsibility of all of us, and this could help greatly the situation of SMEs. The reduction of costs and contributions, the tax-free minimum wage and the higher average wage are the following items that should be done instead of committee. Better paid workers also reduce the hard-hitting emigration of small businesses and increase white employment. This is once again the interests of the national economy, gentlemen. Introducing progressive corporate tax: I think that today we know precisely that, in proportion to net income, a small enterprise pays very many times in profit tax to the state register, such as MOL or any multinational company. bureaucratic company formation and reporting, licensing and reporting obligations must be reduced, and I think that, yes, as my fellow Member has already mentioned, the abolition of compulsory chamber membership cannot again wait a minute. Dear House, I have worked as a small enterprise for many decades, and I know very well that there is nothing on the other side of the chamber membership fee. I didn't get any services, help or anything from the Chamber, and it never occurred to me that they could provide me with support, training, or give my employees support, training, or help me improve my competitiveness. It's all about paying off a well-defined interest group. And I think that the last one is even more important to help innovative businesses, because it is important to treat those businesses that work sustainably and for sustainability on the basis of principles that can be the basis of the economy of the future. There is no development without innovative businesses. For example, the model of the truly responsible company could be used, which was already developed in 2007 by the FRONT. Thank you very much for listening, thank you for your time.
u2018-10-30-72	Thank you, Congressman Csárdi. I now give the floor to notary Bence Tordai, the lead speaker of the Group of Dialogue.
u2018-10-30-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, Let me first turn to my fellow Members from Fidesz, KDNP. Have you recently met a decent Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprise? I don't mean the Parragh Lászlós, nor the Simonka Györgys, nor the gardeners around Fidesz, not those who operate as all kinds of oligarchs or stroms around the Fidesz, nor those who try to make a living from tenders, but those who try to make a living from the market. If they are asked what they need, then surely they are not saying what is in this bill, not wanting to see new committees, not new councils, not new bodies, not to see them redeploying the legal background of affiliated companies in the interests of one of their fidesz buddies, which leaves them very uninterested. They want four things, I'll tell you what these four are: solvent demand, workers who are trained and who can be paid with a fair wage, legal certainty, because there are difficulties in this area as well as a fair system of public burdens and subsidies. I would like to talk about these four, so that they have a broad understanding of what micro, small and medium-sized enterprises expect of the Hungarian government. First of all, solvent demand. Obviously, it takes people to have more money to spend. If we approach macroeconomicly, this implies a demand-side boost, that we are increasing the incomes of the social groups that spend their entire income, and not all kinds of foreign private flights to get their cat to a doctor, not to buy Adriatic luxury yachts, but not even to buy castles or islands in remote countries, where near Fidesz billionaires are fleeing their assets, but to spend it on Hungarian products and services. These people, by the way, should increase the level of income of the bottom two-thirds or three quarters of Hungarian society, and there is only one measure that increases the income level of this broad social coalition, of all its members, and that is the basic income. The Dialogue therefore proposes the introduction of a basic income, which increases the income from work and social incomes that can be obtained outside work. This is what motivates people to work, as it provides a sufficiently high starting wage. That is why the Dialogue says that the minimum wage should also be increased to HUF 150,000 net, with the wage burden falling radically, so that the wage cost is only a few thousand forints higher, so it is not higher than the labour costs imposed on or charged to small entrepreneurs today. [[13.20]] It's possible. There's a budget margin. This year, too, we have submitted a budget restructuring that, by moving HUF 2500 billion, ensures that there is a solvent demand, that small and medium-sized incomes increase, so that it is not the million-dollar payments and not the billion-dollar capitals and the giant companies who are beneficiaries of the Hungarian redistribution system, but those who want to buy the products and services of Hungarian SMEs from their rising income. The second point is to have a skilled, available and reasonably affordable workforce. After 600 000 people have escaped from this country after you have beaten the Hungarian education system, including vocational training, of course, following the advice of a failed tile dealer, it is not surprising that there is a shortage of workers in strategic sectors that will make the lives of small and medium-sized enterprises really impossible in many areas. Obviously, this failed education policy should be completed, and with a 180-degree turn, the XXI. We should run an education system that meets the challenges of the century and let the people you chased away come back. And then there's the question of public burdens. Despite all kinds of freedom fighters and popular populists who actually benefit from the transformation of the public burden-sharing system, you are the giant companies: large companies, multinationals or even Hungarian multinationals. Companies that previously paid 19 per cent corporate tax and now have reduced their effective corporate tax rate to 5 per cent. So the tax reduction that really helps companies by hundreds of billions of forints a year practically only hit giant companies. It is not difficult to see that this puts micro, small and medium-sized enterprises at a relative competitive disadvantage. While previously corporate tax was also a fair, multi-key, progressive tax system with 10 and 19 percent keys, you have now replaced this with a single-key, unfair tax. Moreover, tax incentives that allow the Prime Minister's favourite football team to be supported instead of the budget, so these tax incentives will further reduce the actual tax to be paid and therefore approximately half as much tax will be paid in proportion to the Hungarian budget by giant companies as SMEs. That's pretty amazing. And then the injustices of the support system are on it. What colleagues have played here, for example, is that for job creation, a multi is paid five or eight times as much money as a Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprise. So if you ask a decent Hungarian entrepreneur, who you obviously don't meet very often and then only randomly, then he will say that out of the 15 million forints that come to an employee, which is judged by individual government decisions, in order to attract foreign capital, how many years would he be able to hire an employee plus or increase the number of employees from, say, 15 million forints/person support, it would certainly not be the same answer. And then finally, it's a question of legal certainty. There is a long story to tell in this area, too, but let us be stuck with the question of what is today the top ceiling for the growth and success of SMEs in Hungary. It's not a glass ceiling, it's a lava ceiling. The thing is, if someone's too successful, they'll notice, and if they notice, one of the Fidesz-close mobsters will go there and just take away their company. We know these stories well, we hear hundreds of stories coming from various Hungarian corporate circles, which share the same description of these stories about how they make a very low bid on companies that are suddenly or slowly, which are organically successful, and then if they do not accept it, and they are obviously already shown in the first round that if they do not accept it, there will be trouble, then there really are all kinds of problems. The various organs of the party state are unleashed by the oligarchs near Fidesz, and these poor, decent Hungarian entrepreneurs are hushed up until they are forced to hand over their company to a fidesz robber for half or a third of the original, impudently low offer. These Mafia methods are taking place in Hungary today. This is what is one of the barriers to the development of Hungarian SMEs, and this is what we expect of you in vain, because this is not a system of public policy changes, which is needed to restore this legal certainty, simply a few hundred such robbers, who use mafia methods, and who are now all-encompassing, close to Fidesz, should simply be imprisoned. This would require that Peter Polt, who serves the interests of Fidesz, should not be the Attorney General. It should be worth announcing such crimes so that investigations in these cases are closed by indictment, and from then on the Hungarian courts, believe me, they would do their job and those who threaten the property and property security of Hungarian SMEs and their owners would be put behind bars. So I would like to summarise what Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises would need instead of being councillors and such a completely unnecessary and inefficient substitute action: the introduction of basic income, wage increases, minimum wage increases that do not involve a substantial increase in labour costs; a fair system of burden-sharing, the abolition of undue tax incentives and the lifting of the top key of the Tao; ultimately, the removal of Hungarian economy from fidesz bloodsuckers, parasites and robbers. This is what Hungarian SMEs want. So it would be better if you moved in this direction if you really wanted to use me and not hurt me. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-30-74	Thank you, Mr. Bence Tordai, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I now give the floor to MEP László Hajdu, Democratic Coalition.
u2018-10-30-75	Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Listening to the debate, there is only two minutes to react. Asking the small and medium-sized enterprises, knowing the legislative proposal, they told me to leave me alone! It's suspicious! If you are dealing with us, this is immediately suspicious.54 percent of the average, say, in a district like mine, where there are 11,000 such small entrepreneurs, together with the self-employed, there are 18 thousand businesses with a turnover cost. So what we've been listening to here is a lot of things that are nice and good, and that's the reality. It is true that there is a huge difference, but a person who manufactures parts for the European market and does this only 100 percent can derive a huge profit from the exchange rate change; those who perform painters' or cleaning jobs or construction works, and those who suffer from what Bence Tordai has just said. I think in reality, we have to face the burden of the government announcing politically that the minimum wage, the wage of skilled workers, will be increased by this and that much, but you will not give a penny for that, but you will manage it. What's next? Turns it into four hours, six hours, or you let people go. That's his reaction. In the case of municipalities, for my municipality, HUF 260 million had an impact on the political declaration that the minimum wage should be increased by that and so much. It is true that much later, six months later, about 18 percent of what had to be paid out of public money was sent to us. These are the main problems. These could be used to help small businesses. Thank you. [[13.30]]
u2018-10-30-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. For two minutes, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát will have the floor.
u2018-10-30-77	Mr President, Dear House, Although the criticism of many opposition parties is somewhat similar, as we see an existing situation from the point of view of reality, I still have to respond to what has been said: the unconditional basic income. I would like to say that there will never be any opposition agreement in life on this issue, because Jobbik will not, he does not know, nor would I personally support making people different amounts without any performance. In particular, my fellow Member should think about the impact that it would have on the small villages and small villages of North-East Hungary if, without requiring minimum social performance, other members of the inactive society were to be divided into different amounts. In any case, I do not think that this is a good way of doing it, even if the public work programme operated by the government in the current way could, to say the least, be operated better. I don't like it when in small towns the mayor's street has to be decorated by public workers on command. Yes, there are investments in this kind of cicoma, and I don't want to highlight the specific streets of specific cities now, where fidesz potenta is cemented to his house, and then it's not. I can't support that in a natural way. At the same time, I see that, while there is, say, a 500 000-dollar vacant real estate stock in Hungary and often public employment programmes that produce net nonsense, these systems could perhaps be brought together, and I also see that, by the way, a public employment job has also been created for operating agricultural-based enterprises and profit-making enterprises that have managed to remain on the market. There are very few, sporadic, but positive examples, but I can't identify with the performanceless dotation myself. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the Right Party and the Government.]]
u2018-10-30-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. For two minutes, Congressman Bence of Tordai will take the floor.
u2018-10-30-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am pleased that my fellow Member here can exchange ideas about the philosophical background of the basic income which also improves the situation of SMEs. There are two approaches: one says that those who do not work should not eat; the Dialogue says that everyone should eat so that they can work or learn. For example, if you look at such a Northern-East-Hungarian segment, if that was already the case, the basic income may indeed be an alternative to public work. It provides the same level of income by eliminating the senseless, humiliating and unleading work force. And it opens this dead end, it breaks the end of the closed one, because today there is no way out of the dead end of the public work programme, because it does not have time to simply train itself or to work on a normal market, to find work available on the primary labour market, to find those who are forced into this dead-end solution as a result of the transformation of the social system. [[Ferenc Koncz: How do you know? You've never worked in your life.]] We say, yes, that everyone should have at their disposal the income that they can maintain at the minimum level, and that we should trust people so much that their level of demand is not stuck there, that they grow from 50-60 thousand forints a month, but everyone can do a little more than that and want to get better. We say that there is a sufficient distance between the basic income and the net minimum wage, so we say that at a net minimum wage of 150,000, believe me, everyone who has the opportunity to do so would go to work. So, ultimately, because of the increase in employment, the whitening of employment and the positive impact of the demand side on SMEs, the introduction of basic income is always a success. Thank you.
u2018-10-30-80	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have further speeches from our representatives. I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik.
u2018-10-30-81	Mr President, Dear House, Although there is a strong temptation to conduct an opposition-based philosophical debate, I will not allow it. I would add that the basis for any debate is to listen to each other's speech as a speaker. In mine, I was basically talking about the situation of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. I am trying to stay on this water with the boat, which the Fidesz-KDNP has not pushed into such a severe storm, because there are no arguments or arguments against it, and unfortunately there has not been a substantive debate about the situation of SMEs. I'm going to make another attempt to make it happen, because we can see that the situation is clear. The current Fidesz-KDNP governments, i.e. I am talking about the last two, as we do not yet issue a certificate on this one, they clearly give more and more pleasure to the multinational companies here at the expense of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises than did those Balliberian predecessors with whom I do not, to say the least, sympathise from an economic policy point of view. It is strange, and it is always pointed out that Mr Secretary of State would probably do the same, so I would like to prevent it when we say that at the expense of someone, they always say that we need to treat multi-semmens separately and the micro, small and medium-sized enterprise sector separately. I would argue with this claim that there is a market segment where symbiosis exists, where there is a positive, complementary strengthening role, and obviously there is also one where the multi-semmens virtually eliminate, destroy the market, and there is no room for Hungarian micro-, small and medium-sized enterprises. I can see from the head shakes that you do not necessarily agree with me, fellow members of the government. Let the numbers speak, and I would be very happy if I were wrong, because I would like you to move towards public burdens and not overpamper the affected multi-enterprises. If we compare the different periods, then the performance of the governments, called socialists, which are in existence between 2002-2010, is worth looking at, and economic data are available on you between 2011 and 2017. The fact is that the Fidesz governments supported the creation of a job with an average of HUF 7.6 million, the socialists supported an average job by HUF 4.5 million. Unfortunately, we also see that, while I say once again with individual government decisions, Balliberal governments without my sympathy contributed HUF 130.2 billion to multinational companies, these Orbán governments transferred HUF 255.6 billion of public money to these companies. What could be argued about is that the volume is obviously greater than in previous governments, the effectiveness of the dotation in which you give these companies. If we look at job creation grants, we find that we are often talking about a year and a half for the period we have undertaken, and here we are talking about the total labour force in a non-refundable way, the Government of Hungary is giving it to the multi-enterprises that are creating that job here. This is not necessarily a eligible policy, because in the meantime, a Hungarian small enterprise, if it creates a job, will only meet a fraction of this level of support. In such a situation, it is worth talking about the facilitation of his administrative burdens at all, but it does not complete the circle in any way. After all, we see that precisely from these different figures the export capacity of Hungarian small entrepreneurs is low, the willingness to invest is incredibly low, and we also see that a Hungarian SME bank is in dire need, not only of financial institutions, but also of money market structures that are clearly capable of benefiting these companies. Here we saw the previous investment programmes, where we met with the fact that the funds to be provided to small businesses were typically acquired by the subsidiary companies of medium-sized and large companies. These subsidiaries, small ones, were able to acquire resources that were otherwise intended for Hungarian small and medium-sized companies. I would like to tell you that it is the renegotiation of strategic contracts in relation to the taxation of multi-company companies that, in my view, cannot keep you waiting. Here, at two points, it would be worth interfering with the system so far, in addition to the fact that what is secret, I would like to be able to see, in public terms, all the chapters of all the strategic treaties. On the one hand, it was a historical and economic policy crime here not to commit the start of the slow catching-up of Hungarian wages in order to bring them closer to the Western European level. Obviously, they will not be able to catch up to the mentioned level within 30 years, but at least the intention of slow approximation would be included in the Hungarian macroeconomic indicators. After all, we see that a very small part of the already very low Hungarian productivity increase is being spent only on wage increases, and if we raise the background of the sense of life that the Hungarian Prime Minister lures the working capital here by saying that the labour code is sufficiently flexible and the wages in Hungary are low, then the overall picture brings out that this intention was indeed lacking from the Government of Hungary. On the other hand, we would like to see that if a multi-company comes in, they will conclude a strategic contract with it, possibly expand its activities, here, if not dictated, but at least in the context of a clause, let the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises be turned on at the highest possible level in the production value chain. [[13.40]] This did not appear in the government's economic policy, which is why I think that they have committed a historical, economic policy crime by oversatisfying this sector in terms of strategic contracts. This peaks with regard to the banking system, because there we can talk about a pampering mode, and we can see that even the basic bureaucracy reduction package has not been passed in the case of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. I would encourage you to do this in order to ensure that this very important segment, which, by the way, accounts for more than 99% of the businesses that work and which employs more than two thirds of the workers in the production of more than half of the added value, is managed in place. So public burdens should be achieved in Hungary, not only small and medium-sized enterprises should meet the requirements, but also the units of international networks operating here. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-30-82	Thank you, Congressman. For two minutes, Congressman Attila Mesterházy will have the floor.
u2018-10-30-83	Thank you very much. Mr Kárpát was moved by the sentences of my fellow Member, Mr Dániel, to comment in two minutes. Small and medium-sized enterprises as suppliers to various multinational companies: back in the Horn government, there was a name for this, it was called a supplier's target programme, the professional name of which was then, which meant that the state had consciously helped and organised so that these Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises could become subcontractors to larger companies as suppliers. But what I see today is that in several places where, on paper, the so-called supplier ratio, the Hungarian supplier ratio is statistically correct, it is resolved several times by the multinational itself or one of its foreign subsidiaries making a company registered in Hungary. So they are not real Hungarian companies, which appear as suppliers, but can rather form this with an artificial Hungarian supplier circle. So in Hungarian, the government's task would be to make these small entrepreneurs or medium-sized enterprises competitive in order to be able to join this work at that quality level. Secondly, what is worth mentioning in a sentence is that what you spend on supporting multinational companies, say, in terms of the magnitude of job creation, is a hundred times what a small and medium-sized enterprise can get for similar job creation. So certainly, when you talk about your representation of the SME sector and your anti-multi-nationalism, that is simply not true. The government has never spent as much money to support multinational corporations as your government has spent. Thank you very much. [[Dr. István Tiba is replaced by László Földi in the notary seat.]]
u2018-10-30-84	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] No further comments were received. I will conclude the general debate and ask whether the representative of the Government wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted on Monday 5 November at 4 p.m. A general debate on the bill on accessibility of public sector organisations' websites and mobile applications will follow up until closure. The government referral is T/2937. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to State Secretary Ákos Kara, State Secretary of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-10-30-85	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, A new way to move towards a digital society, access to information and services will provide citizens with the current bill we are discussing. Public sector organisations are also increasingly relying on the Internet to produce a wide range of information that is essential for the general public and to inform, collect and provide various electronic services. The Hungarian Government continues to pay particular attention to ensuring that citizens benefit as much as possible from the benefits offered by the digital society, especially as regards access to public services and information provided by the state. To this end, we have also launched initiatives such as the various actions of the so-called "Digitual Prosperity" series to enhance digital literacy when designing and implementing the so-called "Digital Prosperity" series. The Directive on accessibility of websites and mobile applications of public sector organisations adopted by the Union in autumn 2016 is well matched to the Government's measures to create digital well-being. The purpose of this Directive is to make public sector organisations in the Member States accessible their websites and mobile applications on the basis of uniform rules and requirements. An increasing number of European citizens have access to available data and services on the websites and mobile applications of public sector organisations, making it easier for them to have access to information so that they can enforce their rights more effectively and improve their quality of life. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, What does the accessibility of websites and mobile applications mean in practice? From an average non-disabled user's point of view, the accessible website looks just like a non-absorbed website. The difference can be seen when someone wants to view or obtain information about the site in a way that can be used as a limited user in a skill such as sight or hearing. It is important to point out that accessibility is not only equal to meeting the needs of visually impaired people under the Directive, but also to take into account the specific needs of other types of disabled people. The circle that may be affected is very wide. If we rely on statistical data, there are currently approximately 490 thousand people with disabilities in Hungary, more than 80,000 of whom are poor-sighted or blind. Another significant group of stakeholders is the elderly, who may face similar problems due to their age, as well as anyone who has to face such a situation temporarily in the event of surgery, accident or other barriers to ability, disability. To give some specific examples: a website is accessible when the text is in a format that standard reading software can easily read to visually impaired people. And many of you may have experienced that even a well-sighted person may have a problem with the fact that using a mobile phone or tablet, the font size, contrasting of a given website, is inadequate for use or not suitable for use. With regard to an accessible website, this will basically be expected to be used in an appropriate way in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, Existing legislation does not specifically provide for accessible access to websites and mobile applications and therefore the transposition of this Directive requires the establishment of basic rules for specific websites and mobile applications by a separate law. The draft law under discussion introduces technical and technical specifications that have so far been published only in the international guidelines and through voluntary application of standards in domestic practice. We do not underestimate this either, there have been people who have been paying attention to this before, but obviously now there is a much greater opportunity, and the mandatory application of the legislation will be opened, so I can put it exactly. The bill therefore sets out the basic accessibility requirements for websites and mobile applications, which are not specific technical solutions at the level of the legislation, but would set basic principles, such as handling and clarity. [[13.50]] They refer to accepted techniques and good practices, e.g. harmonised standards that will be applied in the design, preparation and operation of websites and mobile applications. Ladies and gentlemen, There is an internationally accepted set of rules in the care of a consortium developing the technological foundations of the Internet in the framework of self-regulation, which lays down rules on the accessibility of websites. Based on this, a European standard, referred to by the Directive, was drawn up, which was also published as a Hungarian standard. The bill will take over the protection set out in this Directive, so that the website that meets the requirements of this standard will be considered to comply with the accessibility conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, Given that the tasks set out in the bill require significant technical and professional preparation from the organisations concerned, the law will be implemented in several stages from autumn 2019 to summer 2021. In some cases, the bill allows certain content such as online maps, media services or websites of certain types, such as schools, kindergartens, to be temporarily or permanently exempted from the requirements because the regulation takes into account that there is not an efficient and easy-to-use technology tool available for all organisations. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, The bill was preceded by long professional preparations and negotiations. Thank you for the proposals and opinions received and sent from organisations representing people with disabilities. Finally, I would like to ask my fellow Members to support the bill, and not to see it as an obligation to adopt an EU directive, but also to help people with disabilities have wider access to public services and information, to serve the achievement of digital well-being, which we believe is a fundamental requirement of XXI. In a society of the century. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-30-86	Thank you, Secretary of State, Ákos Kara. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Attila Barcza, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-10-30-87	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The Government of Hungary, together with the Fidesz fraction, has always put great emphasis on supporting people with disabilities, making their lives easier and accessible. The government's objective is to use the bill on accessibility of public sector organisations' websites and mobile applications to enable users, in particular persons with disabilities, to have access to websites and mobile applications of public sector organisations. By adopting this bill, the specific accessibility rules would be introduced into the Hungarian legal system, which would provide a kind of legal security for disabled users. Ladies and gentlemen, It is important to note that the legislative proposal considers it a priority to ensure that all Hungarian citizens have equal access to information in the public interest when using information society services. The regulation aims to make public sector organisations' websites and mobile applications accessible to users, especially the elderly with disabilities. It is outstanding that accessibility of the website and mobile apps is not equal to meeting the needs of the visually impaired, but should also take into account the situation of the hearing impaired and the disabled. On the other hand, it is important for the elderly to face the same problems because of their age, as well as for anyone with limited abilities due to their temporary condition. The bill sets out the basic accessibility requirements for websites and mobile applications, which are not specific technical solutions, but primarily principles, accepted techniques and good practices, which will have to be applied when designing, preparing and operating websites and mobile applications. Dear Parliament, The bill has a clear positive social impact in extending the rights of people with disabilities and the elderly by facilitating access to information and digital public services available on the Internet. The application of the standards set out in the bill improves the quality of life of persons with disabilities in a capacity by providing wider access to services, information provided by the state through public sector websites or mobile applications, which facilitates their daily lives and facilitates the enforcement of their rights. Dear House, The current government is doing far more to improve the quality of life of people with disabilities in the online environment than any previous government. This year, people who received disability benefits or disability benefits received a tax allowance of HUF 6900, as well as those who suffer from a disease that is considered to be a serious disability. The government also decided that the care fee for children in need of care would rise to HUF 100,000 from 1 January 2019. For the Fidesz fraction and the Hungarian government, it is important to improve the lives of people with disabilities and the elderly. With this in mind, I call on my fellow Members to support the bill tabled. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-30-88	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr János Stummer, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2018-10-30-89	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, It is necessary to have some serious party loyalty, which I find difficult to understand, so that someone in a keynote speech dares to throw this sum of HUF 6900 into the table of the House at the hearing of the bill when we are talking about the fate and access to information of people who must give the Hungarian State every opportunity to have access to all the information that is absolutely necessary for their lives. Turning to our own comments, I would like to draw the attention of the Secretary of State and the competent ministry to two aspects. One is the pace with which the Hungarian state administration arrived at this bill, and the other, which Mr. State Secretary mentioned, but I would also like to hear some specifics about it, if I may, and if I would be honored to know exactly what kind of discussions have taken place with the professional organisations, and with whom exactly. At the beginning of my speech, I would like to say perhaps the most important thing: Jobbik will support this bill. In addition, we express our sincere joy that the electronic interfaces concerned will finally arrive after the entry into force of the law. 1st century in 2018. Mr State Secretary and my Fidesz fellow Member, we are not moving towards digital society, but there we are. All the information that is around us, which is interesting for us and for all Hungarian citizens, is a major proportion and an increasing percentage of them are available only on the Internet, only in digital form and on electronic surfaces. This bill on the House's table pays off an old debt, where the circumstances of the implementation will be of particular importance, since these developments and these directions will determine whether our disabled fellow citizens can actually use these websites later. I would not place a less important source of law before this House than the Fundamental Law of Hungary. According to this, Hungary guarantees fundamental rights to all without discrimination, such as disability, and Hungary helps to achieve equal opportunities by means of specific measures. It's good to have this bill here, but it's not on time, it's late. There is a prior history of this, even before the Fundamental Law and the 2016 event, namely that the Hungarian Parliament joined the United Nations initiative in 2007 and the UN Convention which states that discrimination against people with disabilities is a serious violation of human dignity. [[14.00]] The same convention requires people with disabilities to have full access to new information and communication technologies on an equal basis with others. Yeah, you heard me. I said 2007. Just 11 years ago, the House adopted this agreement. And since then, there was still an incalculable technological development, which we ourselves have witnessed, and some of us have suffered. I would like to draw the government's attention to the fact that, in the future, a much shorter response time will be needed to keep up with such a significant development of the infocommunication technology space. As long as I make this speech as a speaker, in these timeframes each faction will express its own views on this bill, I would like to draw your attention with great respect to the fact that, in these few minutes, a lot of previously used technologies, surfaces and types of devices will become obsolete, in the new and constantly renewable environment, the information stored there and used from there will become inaccessible. From this year onwards, the Ministry of Innovation and Technology is now also responsible for this area. They and the competent minister, state secretary, I ask you to do everything you can to shorten the response time of the Hungarian government in this area. The other aspect, which I would particularly like to put to your attention, is the importance of negotiation. Not only run the mandatory circles in connection with the necessary consultations with the relevant professional organisations, not only search for their stamp or signature, but also for a real consultation with the relevant professionals and stakeholders, so that the real meaning of this debate, this law, and the reality of everyday life, can finally make sense in the practice of everyday life. If this does not happen, despite this debate, despite the law, despite the resulting improvements, the information stored on these surfaces will not really be available to our disabled fellow citizens. From this law before us comes a very complicated, diverse series of professional work and very diverse discussions, also adapting to different standards. Do not save this job, the political instruments are at your disposal for all of this. I would therefore like to ask the honourable Secretary of State exactly who, how, and what professional organisations have been consulted in advance. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-30-90	Thank you very much, Congressman Stummer. I now give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group; and I give the chair of the meeting to my vice-president Tamás Sneider. Here's your word. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]]
u2018-10-30-91	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Our fellow Member, Jobbik, immediately attacks the measures we have taken and the report on it. In the previous cycle, you should ask the representatives of your own group why, for example, tax packages to increase or assist the employment of people with disabilities have not been voted in favour of, or even the budgetary increases that the largest organisations for the protection of the interests of disabled organisations have managed to incorporate in the Budget Act. Ask your fellow Members. Returning to the law, while we are at the speaker's speech: we see the 21st. In the 20th century, new ways of accessing information and services are emerging and constantly centred on. In this case, providers of information and services, such as public sector organisations, are increasingly relying on the Internet to produce, collect and make available a wide range of information and services that are essential for the general public. Within the framework of the bill, accessibility means the principles and techniques to be taken into account when designing, creating, maintaining and updating websites and mobile applications in order to make them more accessible to users, in particular persons with disabilities. The purpose of the bill before us is to ensure compliance with the rules of Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 October 2016 on the accessibility of public sector organisations' websites and mobile applications. The Directive was published on 2 December 2016 and entered into force on 22 December 2016. The aim of the Directive is to allow users, in particular persons with disabilities, access to websites and mobile applications of public sector organisations. The accessibility rules set out in the Directive have not been explicitly published in Hungarian legislation, which is why there is this special bill. XXVI of 1998 on the rights and equal opportunities of persons with disabilities Laws already have access to information of general interest at the level of principle when using information society services. The tasks of the Directive will be carried out in several stages between 2019 and 2022. It is important to adopt these legislative provisions, which are necessary in order for the Member State, in this case Hungary, to transpose the rules of the Directive into its own legal order, as well as to indicate the organisation which will carry out the monitoring and implementation of the tasks under the bill. The designation of the inspection body and the detailed control rules will then be regulated by a separate government regulation. The reason why the legislation is recognised in a separate law is that the rules of the directive cannot be adapted to the above mentioned legislation in the light of their different personal scope and specific procedures. For these reasons, the transposition of the directive requires the establishment of rules at the statutory level, specifically in the field of websites and mobile applications, in a separate law. The regulation is aimed at making the websites and mobile applications of public sector organisations accessible to users, which has already been discussed by my Fidesz fellow Member. It is important to point out that accessibility is not equal to meeting the needs of visually impaired people, but should be taken into account, on the one hand, other types of disabled people, on the other hand, the most typical groups are hearing impaired people and disabled people, or those with mobility coordination problems who, for example, no longer have the ability to use computer-enabled mice. On the other hand, it is an important group of elderly people who, as a result of their age, are faced with the same problems, and anyone who, due to their temporary condition, is limited in some capacity, due to an accident, surgery or any other case. The bill sets out the basic accessibility conditions for websites and mobile applications, which are not based on specific technical solutions, but on the principles of handling, perception, clarity, and accepted good practices or techniques that will have to be used in the design, preparation and operation of these websites and applications. While the definition of the public sector, the scope of the organisations concerned is very broad, there are already some websites that meet these accessibility requirements, and there are some that have only minor formal errors. But it must be acknowledged that there are some that need to be comprehensively accessible in the future. [[Gergely Arató is replaced by Dr. László Varga in the notary seat.]] Similarly to the accessibility tasks of public buildings, it is possible to define exactly what needs to be done for full accessibility only in the specific case of websites, when examining a particular website. The most important change will now be that while so far the accessibility of the website has depended on the expertise, attention and specific circumstances of the website's creators, it is then a common legal obligation and control to ensure this accessibility. I think that over the last eight years, we have made a lot of progress in supporting and helping people with disabilities. We remember that the Hungarian Parliament adopted the National Disability Programme for 2015-2025 in April 2015 here in the National Assembly; I would add that the Democratic Coalition did not vote against the National Disability Programme. Based on the evaluation of previous years, this new strategy sets out the main development directions for disability policy over the longer term, in a new structure and for 11 years. Taking into account the experience of previous years, this programme will, among other things, address the issue of families of people with disabilities and, in a separate chapter, focus on actions to be taken in relation to groups at multiple risk, including children with disabilities, women with disabilities and people with multiple disabilities. [[14.10]] Emphasising both the importance of health and education, it sets out strategic objectives in specific chapters. The full participation of people with disabilities in society also includes employment, and accordingly the employment chapter of the disability programme sets out the objectives that contribute to more and more work for people with disabilities. Compared to this socialist period, huge progress has been made, and next year's budget will also add funds to this. In addition to the above, the disability-related disadvantages of disabled persons can be overcome by ensuring the availability of adequate quality social services and benefits. Dear Parliament, We have tried to help in recent years with various programmes from domestic and EU sources, the development of infocommunications teleservices, institutional replacements, improving the accessibility of public services, significantly increasing the support of large advocacy organisations and services, helping dog training, rehabilitation and parental assistance programmes. These are just a few examples that our disabled compatriots and their families can rely on the government and count on the governing parties. The proposal now before us also serves to move forward on this path, so the KDNP faction supports it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-30-92	Thank you. Welcome, fellow Members. I give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, head speaker of the MSZP.
u2018-10-30-93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would say to my fellow Member, Mr Nacsa, that in the speeches of opposition representatives, which have already been made today, the opposition cannot vote on certain legislative changes or amendments because there are positive elements in it, even if there are a lot of negative elements in it. And in the last eight years, you have applied this consciously enough to yell at opposition representatives that you cannot vote for anything positive. [[Nacsa Lawrence: I didn't yell!]] I would recommend to the Member that he do us the favor from now on that when we submit amendments, which would lead in a positive direction the role of a legislative amendment, be supported from here on out. I want the same thing you asked us to do. I would like to say to my fellow Member, Fidesz, that, in joining my better fellow Member, bringing up in this legislative amendment the increase in care, care for injured or disabled people, or the increase in so-called wages for those who care for their sick child, why does he not mention that anyone who cares for the patient's brother, who cares for the patient's relative, mother or father, has not been so much increased. They've made a difference here, too. They managed to create an uneven law, which, yes, helps 33,000 families, but not all the others. They made a difference between sick and sick. That's something to think about. And we should also think about whether we, people with disabilities, are doing everything we can to help people with disabilities. And then I'm gonna have to ask you a few questions. When we talk about the fact that, with the explosion of technology, we are going to vote for this amendment of the law here, I ask whether these technical tools are available to people with disabilities to the extent necessary, such as smartphones or computers or laptops. Can you support these people in this? Have any studies been carried out to see how many people should be exposed to this technical explosion? If we want to help them, and it is natural for us to do everything we can to ensure that people with disabilities can use all the services they so to say on a daily basis. The question should be asked whether people with disabilities can use public transport to the same extent as their sound counterparts. People with disabilities will have access to those basic services to the extent and in such a simple quotation mark that I place the word "simple" like their unscathed associates. We will do everything we can to make this happen, or we will just make a soundy speech, and we will tell you how much the ruling party has done for these people in the last eight years, we have dusted it off, we have done it, and it is done. I don't think that's what this is about. Much, much more should be done for these people, because these people are bound to our goodwill, to every extent at the mercy of their sound associates. And that's not right, because I don't think that any man has asked you to come into the world with disabilities, or perhaps later to suffer a disease or injuries that will make you disabled. So I would just like to ask all pro-government politicians to be a little more modest, because this subject deserves to be talked about more modestly and a little bit about it, and it is natural that we will support it. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-30-94	Thank you, Congresswoman. This is the end of the speaker speeches and two-minute speeches are possible. Congressman Attila Mesterházy has indicated his intention to comment. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-10-30-95	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Here, Congressman Nacsa stabbed the opposition right at the beginning of his comment on why we did not support this and that. I would like to draw your attention, Mr President, to the fact that if these initiatives were to be wrapped up in such salad laws, this was natural today, but you did not participate in this debate; you arrived a little, a few hours later. This topic has already been mentioned today, that it is a clever communication catch on the part of the government, that there are also things that an opposition cannot agree with, and things in which we can accept even the intention and the target system, and even the solution, are wrapped together, if we vote for it, the problem is that we do not vote for it, the problem is the problem. So I would like to ask you to at least stop using your own practice as an argument, which you are trying to pinpoint to the opposition, that you are asking us to do what we cannot decide, or that we do not have the leeway to separate these things where appropriate. The other, for one sentence only, is that the Secretary of State has spoken about digital prosperity. I have just asked you a number of questions in the Ministry that this is the right direction for people with disabilities to try to help their digital well-being. It would be better than that if, for example, we could help the digital well-being of people living in the village by, say, requiring service providers to make such improvements, with Wi-Fi coverage, broadband internet coverage or the full coverage of the mobile network, so to speak, because this would also be a question of equal opportunities. It is the only way for many people in the countryside to join the labour market or access opportunities. So what I would ask is that I suggest, and I will continue to harass the Ministry in this area, that we take action in this area, because a lot of voters are looking for smaller settlements with problems of this type, so it is a more general problem, I think, not just individual cases. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-10-30-96	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa in two minutes.
u2018-10-30-97	Thank you very much. Mr President, I would like to respond to two short points, one of which is that over one million households in the last two years, which have been counted back from 2017, have had access to broadband internet as a result of network development and infrastructure development. But that is not the subject of today's debate, so I would like to respond to Mrs Bangóné's suggestion that she has raised, but what about the instruments, what about the various programmes. Together with the National Association of Deafs and Big Hearers, we launched in 2014 the video interpreter-service opportunity to make 309,000 phone calls in the first two years with the help of video interpreters, our disabled compatriots, and then they won an additional HUF 1 billion for this program in order to expand this service. In addition, the National Association of the Association of Disabled People and the National Association of Autists jointly won over HUF 1.2 billion to provide laptops and tablets to their members, thus reaching over a thousand people from that source with laptops, tablets, and further expanding these services, even video translation services, and this program will continue to expand in the future. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-30-98	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor two minutes to Congressman László Hajdu of DK.
u2018-10-30-99	Mr. Secretary. Mr President, For this digital well-being, there is only one expanded thought. I think that the proposal can and will be supported. [[14.20]] I think that this comes as a separate law and not as a package, so we can figure out what we support. Rather, it is the implementation of this which enters several steps. I would suggest that people with disabilities, like all citizens, live in settlements, small villages, towns and cities. When the European Union's recommendation on accessibility was made, so that the institutions, schools, kindergartens and much more and the border stones were accessible in the public area, we were very happy to vote for it; even I was sitting here at the time. Then it turned out that the municipality had to implement this from its own budget, and very, very significant hundreds of millions had to be spent on accessibility in a district or metropolitan size. For us, how much will this. Digital Prosperity + settlement, depending on size, cost? Because we also need to see that we are going to do this with taxpayers' money, and people with disabilities pay taxes, of course, but I do not think it is clear that, in the end, the source of this is, to such a great extent, what you said that it affects more than 400 thousand people, how it will be implemented in practice. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-30-100	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman János Stummer in a normal time frame.
u2018-10-30-101	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Congressman Nacsa, allow me to put some thought to you, because I am quite simply outraged by the conduct you have shown here. He owes us this crap, and here my opposition colleagues have already indicated what and how the opposition voted and did not vote for us in the previous term. It's a cheap trick you've been doing with these salad laws in the framework of the Hungarian Parliament for the ninth year. And if you asked me to ask my fellow Members who were sitting here during the previous term, and I ask you to ask your fellow Members at the next group meeting about how this attitude is related, this political attitude to the institution of good governance. Allow me one little thing. Here, all of the pro-government speakers have explained to us with frankincense-smelling speeches and patos-spoken speeches how committed the current Hungarian government is to the lifestyle of people with disabilities and to the better translation of their daily lives. I'd like to offer your attention to a recent KSH research. And recent KSH research says that there are 400,000 people with disabilities in Hungary today, and one fifth and 20 percent of these disabled people think and feel that because of their disability they have some form of disadvantage in their daily lives, whether in employment or in the labour market, in transport or in the field of health care. That's about 80,000 people. In the ninth year of their government, 80,000 people still feel that in their life, the fact that they have become disabled or have been born disabled in this world is a disadvantage. And you're here talking about what excellent results the government has achieved in this area over the last nine years, with tens of you sitting here as representatives of the two-thirds coalition in this room right now, and you know best that you can do anything with your two-thirds mandate since 2010, which you're about to do. And if you'd kept them in a good mood, and if you had these people in your mind, you'd be able to solve these people's daily problems almost overnight. Count on that, fellow Members of the House of Fidesz. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-30-102	Thank you, Congressman. Now it is possible to make a two-minute comment. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Gréczy.
u2018-10-30-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. What I would like to add to the debate is that the Fidesz government started its rampage after 2010 by immediately dragging people with disabilities and disabilities to all kinds of offices and finding out that the person who had, let's say, 85 percent disability is actually only 27 now. [[Interviews from the Fidesz ranks.]] And no one's legs have grown since then. That's what you guys did in bulk. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács' intervention:]] The review was indeed started by the Gyurcsány government, but what you have done in bulk was at least unsuitable and at least unChristian. The other is that I would be able to give a long list of the laws that the Fidesz and KDNP Members did not vote for during the period of government between 2002 and 10, although they would indeed have been for the benefit of the people, whether it was wage increases or an increase in the family allowance; in such cases, Fidesz and KDNP members voted against. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-30-104	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No signal.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment. [[For signal:]] It says yes. I give the floor to Secretary of State Kara Ákos.
u2018-10-30-105	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Let me just remind you for a moment of what the bill was about, because at the end of it we got away from the point; what we were talking about here, although many important things obviously came up, but the purpose of this bill is to make public sector organisations' websites and mobile applications accessible. By the way, I think that it is obviously very important for such an important bill to come up with ideas about people with disabilities, elderly people, about how they can access digital well-being, at all the tools and services of the digital age, even if it should be pointed out to my opposition colleague that the review period he referred to came from the legislation of a former government, your government, and that it was necessary to implement the regime and structure of the government at that time. I would like to thank the fellow Members for the supporting comments submitted to the current bill. I would like to point out to my fellow Member on the issue of specific organisations that most of the proposals came from the National Association of Hungarian Blinds and Sensitives, the National Organisation of the Mental Injured, the National Association of the Deafs and the Great Hearers, the National Association of the Associations of the Disabled. There have also been other organisations who have sent comments and proposals, and we have obviously tried to adopt as many of them as possible. By the way, my fellow Members, one of the most important tasks of the government in the event of the adoption of the law will be to try to involve, as far as possible, the experience of these stakeholder organisations in implementation, thus setting up a technical background and everyday application. I think that this will be decisive, by the way, and that the opinion of our disabled fellow citizens will have to be decisive in the practical application of this law in concrete practical application. If you'll allow me, I'd like to respond separately to Mr Mesterházy's suggestion, because his proposal has indeed arrived and I can assure you that the answer has been prepared. In fact, the answer is clear and clear: the government has done a lot in recent years with various developments, different legal backgrounds, if it is to be said in the interests of simplicity: legal accessibility, for example, so that the super-fast internet, the fast internet, can reach hundreds of thousands of households in recent years. I can reassure my fellow Members that the government remains determined and determined for another phase of super-fast internet development for digitalisation. So from January, we will open the second phase of super-fast Internet development, where we will no longer prefer the 30 megabit/secundum, but a larger bandwidth. And indeed, in this new development period starting in January, we would also like to reach more and more households within the framework of the Magyar választósa program in terms of improvements that are now called super-fast, but in a later period providing even more bandwidth, which obviously continues to keep pace with the requirements of the age. [[14.30]] The government is committed to this, because there are very good examples in Hungary, as we know, in the area of the mobile network, the Hungarian network is always the best in the world, but it is one of the world's top ten networks. Nevertheless, they should be aware that we have ordered a review of the fact that, for example, they are constantly able to use mobile devices along motorways, without interruption or interruption. So obviously, we will continue to improve and improve all the improvements that are needed, but I think that it is out of the question that we have launched, on the one hand, a programme of skills and skills development under the Digital Prosperity programme, and now more than 100,000 people have participated in it. It goes beyond the argument that the super-fast internet program is a successful program, since we have reached hundreds of thousands of households in recent years. There is a debate over the fact that we have also concentrated significant resources on the capital in the relationship between the countryside and Budapest, as while in the countryside we can ensure that we can keep up with developments, such as the super-fast Internet, with government and EU resources, both in the capital and in the central region. By the end of 2022, for example, we will be able to provide the super-fast internet in all Hungarian state education institutions, including vocational school institutions. So I think that, overall, in terms of digitalisation, the government has used very important resources and that, in the next period, we will continue to devote very significant resources to various developments. And of course, the current bill again focuses on and deals with helping our disabled fellow citizens and families to access information, access to basic knowledge and information. I would like to confirm once again that we will definitely ask for further assistance and cooperation, and we will work together with the representative organisations who have helped us with our work at this stage of the law. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-30-106	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The amendments may be submitted on Monday 5 November at 4 p.m. We now have a general debate on the bill to amend certain employment laws until closure. The government referral is T/2928. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr. Sándor Bodó, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance, author of the item on the agenda.
u2018-10-30-107	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill before you contains amendments to several employment laws. The amendments are minor, but important in terms of purpose and content. The objective of this proposal presented by the Government is, on the one hand, to ensure consistency between the various levels of legal provisions and, on the other hand, to ensure uniform application of law. The proposal amends the Employment Act by making it more consistent with the rules of the law on general administrative order and enforcement procedures to be implemented by the tax authority in the context of the recovery of assistance from the National Employment Fund, interest on transactions and late payment, and the exercise of equity. As a new element, the proposal also sets out the rules for seeking a job for a person in reintegration detention who is serving imprisonment. The new regulation serves the successful reintegration of the detention community. This requires that the prisoner can actually pursue a job-seeking activity, and before that he can also appear on the labour market as a job-seeker, because this is currently not possible. With the adoption of this amendment, inmates under reintegration detention will be registered as job seekers and will also be entitled to job search benefits. This will make the objectives of reintegration detention feasible. The rules on training aid will also be amended. The provisions in force do not allow a parent who receives childcare or childcare benefits and who is not a job seeker to receive more than 30 hours of training. At the same time, this group of persons may engage in gainful activity without time limitation after the child's six months of age. It is proposed to remove the 30-hour weekly training limit for childcare recipients. In addition, reimbursement of training costs will be eligible for the person receiving the training allowance. At present, reasonable costs incurred in relation to the supervision and care of the child can be reimbursed in the case of the use of labour market services and the provision of training support. The proposal also provides for reimbursement of these costs in the event of the provision of wage support. The aim of the amendment is therefore to facilitate the employment of caregivers of their relatives and women with small children. In order to ensure legal coherence, the concept of a disabled person and of a disabled person and of a relative is also clarified. In order to comply with EU rules, it is necessary to amend the common output and result indicators contained in the European Social Fund database. The proposal provides for a derogation from the Labour Code of collective agreements as regards the Law on the Status of Civil Servants. The law does not currently contain any clear provision regarding the derogation, and the proposal therefore settles how the rules of the Code of Labour also apply to civil servants may be different from those of the collective agreement. Following the amendment, the representativeness of the civil servants' trade union will also be measured for district centres. The proposal also amends the rules of teleworking in the OSH Act. Due to the proliferation of new forms of work, it is in the interests of preserving the competitiveness of businesses to simplify specific OSH standards for teleworking. The modernisation of teleworking rules, while reducing the administrative burden on employers, ensures that workers' rights to work without endangering health and safety are not violated. On the basis of practical experience, the proposal clarifies the rules on the OSH representative, clarifying his rights and tasks. It is proposed that the OSH representative should always be entitled to participate in the investigation of accidents and occupational diseases affecting workers who choose him, in the interests of prevention and workers. The proposal also clarifies the use of words and terms of the OSH Act, thus removing local and inter-local scheduled services from the concept of road transport, as road transport is not only possible by regular services. The proposal also amends the provisions of the Wage Guarantee Act. The amendments ensure consistency of procedural rules with the General Administrative Regulation. The proposal leaves the special dues rule, which allows for a large increase in wage guarantee claims by applying a general rule similar to the other liquidation costs. [[14.40]] In the light of practical experience and taking into account the effectiveness of other sanctions provided for in the Wage Guarantee Act, the proposal proposes to repeal the provisions on interest on late payments with a low deterrent effect and efficiency. The Labour Control Act is amended in line with practical audit experience and relevant judicial practice, and clarifies the rules on post-control, thus reducing the burden on the tax authority as a general enforcement body, providing for the assessment of the payment benefit and payment of instalments submitted by the debtor before enforcement is ordered. The proposal also provides for the possibility of issuing an official certificate on an employer's application. The official certificate shall certify that the employer has not committed any labour infringement which would require him to be registered in the official register. This may be of great importance in particular in the course of the foreign procurement procedure of domestic companies, since according to current case law, customers should not ask the labour authority for an official certificate as to whether they are registered with the public authority, but the examiner of the particular tender must consult it on the Internet. However, according to practical experience, many domestic companies can only prove that they have not committed a labour infringement that would require them to be registered in the public register by submitting a certificate issued by the Hungarian authority in the course of foreign procurement procedures. The proposal amends the simplified employment law as regards the deadline for withdrawing and amending the notification to the tax authority. Taking into account the practical needs, it will provide a longer notification deadline than before to avoid unnecessary producer administration and to make work more efficient, especially in the agricultural sector, in terms of agricultural work. The proposal clarifies, in several cases, the use of terms and phrases, as well as the correction of incorrect or incorrect legal places, thus facilitating the application of the law. Dear Parliament, In the light of what has been said, I would like to ask you to support the proposal submitted by the Government during the debate. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-30-108	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Gábor Bányai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-10-30-109	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Since the change in government in 2010, all of our economic indicators have improved significantly since the end of 2010, with no exception to the employment rate or even the minimum wage. The wrong economic policy of left-wing governments was well demonstrated by the fact that while unemployment was only 5.5 percent in Hungary in the second quarter of 2002, the Medgyessy and Gyurcsány governments reduced the unemployment rate to 7.7 percent in the autumn of 2008, before the economic crisis started, and the unemployment rate in Hungary rose to more than 12 percent in the spring of the next election. The civilian government announced its new economic policy in 2010-11 after the disastrous governance of the socialists, which set the goal of recovering the country and creating a million new jobs in ten years. Then the entire opposition said that this would be impossible. The facts show that they have not yet been right. Thanks to the successful alliance between the Hungarian government and the Hungarian people, the recovery of the economy can continue after 14 and, thanks to this, more than 750 thousand new jobs have already been created in Hungary. The average number of unemployed people has fallen as drastically as the number of employees has grown drastically. The main points of the agreement concluded in 2016 at the permanent consultation forum of employees, employers and government, the competitive sphere and the government were the increase in minimum wages and the guaranteed minimum wage. The six-year wage agreement facilitates the reduction of public burdens on employment, whereby the social contribution tax fell by another 2.5 percentage points to 19.5 percent in 2018, so the minimum wage increased by 8 percent and the guaranteed minimum wage by 12 percent. The main objective of employment policy has been to achieve full employment since 2010. We have managed to get very close to this with so far government measures, some 750,000 more working than eight years ago, and the unemployment rate was already at a historic low point in the summer, 3.7 percent. Real wages increased again by more than 10 percent in the first third of 2018 following a two-digit increase last year, thanks to the six-year wage agreement. This is why, in order to ensure the coherence of legislation and to adapt to the changed legislative environment in recent years, it is also necessary to amend a number of employment-related laws. I would like to highlight the following amendments from this bill. In the context of the amendment of the law on the promotion of employment and the provision of unemployment benefits, the provisions on training aid are clarified, specifying the subject-matter of the replacement allowance and supplementing the action, and the rules on the calculation of the supplement. As a new element, the law sets out the rules for seeking a job for a person in reintegration detention who is serving imprisonment, and the aim here too is not to return these countrymen to the horizons and institutions of justice. The regulation also names cases where the customer's personal appearance is necessary, as the procedure cannot take place without it. With regard to the amendment of the Law on the status of civil servants, the proposal complements the provisions on trade union representativeness of civil servants in respect of district centres. This will also make it possible to measure the representativeness of the civil service trade union in the area of district centres by introducing a technical code. With regard to the amendment of the OSH Act, the main purpose of the amendment is to modernise the rules on teleworking, to reduce the administrative burden on employers, while ensuring that workers' rights to work without endangering health and safety are not violated. With regard to the amendment of the Labour Control Act, the amendment clarifies the rules on the qualification powers of the labour authority in line with practical inspection experience and the relevant judicial practice. The amendment of the simplified employment law to the agricultural sector and, on the basis of its feedback, to withdraw and amend the employer's notification to the tax authority, amends the deadline open until 8 a.m. on the day of notification to 9 a.m. In my own experience, this amendment is also very important, since many unfair punishments could be given, employers suffered from this rule because of previous regulation, and this amendment is particularly important for many areas in Hungary, where this method of work is very important and saves life, and by not punishing entrepreneurs, we may even make this amendment easier for them. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal submitted serves well to pursue the employment policy objectives set by the government, and I therefore ask you, although the adoption of the law could also be referred to as the salad law, but, like our faction, support this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-30-110	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr Ander Balázs, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2018-10-30-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us on the amendment of certain employment laws amends six previous laws: the laws on promoting employment and the provision of the unemployed, the status of civil servants, the employment protection, the Wage Guarantee Fund, labour control and simplified employment. When we receive such a salad package, I must say that we do have fears, and these fears are not at all unfounded, let us just think of the magic tricks that they had, I would say, to our fellow Member Bánki Erik from the Fidesz fraction, who sat down at home, began to scratch his little gobblehead, and some kind of folk-happy, huge idea like some divine spark came out of it; this was also the case in his mental process of working time, which would have changed the code of work in such a way that we could have calmly called it a slave law book. So, unfortunately, these fears are often justified, and the need to be cautious is also well founded. [[14.50]] Why am I saying this? Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, you and your government have broken apart among employees' rights by twisting the slogan of labour market flexibility like a neoliberal jerk, and I must say that Hungarian workers have been unilaterally handed over to capital interests, and this is not some cheap, left-handed talk, some old-fashioned record, but this Hungarian obsession. If you are speaking to ordinary Hungarian workers, then in many cases the complaint is absolutely justified on their part. Remember that when Viktor Orbán wanted to sell Hungarian workers to Arab investors in such a way that they were cheap and, in fact, wood could be cut on their backs. This meant or is now the main ability to attract capital in Hungary for decades to domestic, otherwise well-trained and, unfortunately, in many cases very, very patient workers. If we ask what the Hungarian worker is worth or what the worker is worth, then the answer could be that you, for your government, are a cheaply eviscerated wage slave. [[Moraj from the benches of the governing parties.]] It is possible to be outraged at this, fellow Members, only the situation where, let us say, the Romanian net minimum wage now precedes Hungary in nominal terms, and they have already beaten us to the point of purchasing power, then there is nothing to talk about, and I can say again that this is the sad Hungarian reality. [[Intervention from the benches of the governing parties: It's not true! F. Sándor Kovács: Fake!]] And if there is this bill because there is, I will quickly say it in parentheses, yes, there is, an eligible element of my fellow Member, then we must say that it is late, and should have been much sooner, say, eight years ago, to think about such things, but what can we expect from the Gucci faction? I do not think that we should expect, if we are realistic, that you feel the everyday problems of Hungarian workers. You offered a strategic partnership and gave it to multinational companies and forced strategic servants to Hungarian workers, with a purely neoliberal, sociopathic dogma. [[Intervention from the representatives of Fidesz: Doctor!]] Well, you could call a doctor, by the way, my fellow Member, for those Hungarian workers who, let's say, are suffering from decades of work, and you won't give them, I will do that, the possibility of early retirement, indeed! And then some OECD surveys. How many hours do you think an average Hungarian worker works on an annual basis? 1900 hours; an average German worker 1400 hours. Let us put it next to the appreciation that workers are given here and, let us say, in Germany. [[Ferenc Koncz: And the Hungarians?]] There's a reason for that exodus. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: This is the shame!]] What is typical of Hungarian workers is that they leave Hungary and are not at all adventurous, in order to find their prosperity in the West. I told you, there's no age limit, there's no pension for men after 40 years, they can't rest. Under such circumstances that, let's say, if we look at the gender composition of the population over 65, we can see that 62 percent of the population over 65 is female, 38 percent is male. It's not a coincidence, because the rate of premature deaths, let's say, in men between 40 and 50, is three times as high as in women. And yet you have said no on many occasions to our initiative that early retirement should be guaranteed, and that men should be able to finally enjoy something from retirement after 40 years of work, and that it should not be their destiny to go straight to the cemetery. This includes: an average Hungarian worker in such health conditions, can you imagine that he really only misses five days? Yeah, that's how much I miss it, because the other days when he's sick, he doesn't dare take it out, or his financial options are very limited, and he doesn't have the guts to take, like, sick money. Can you imagine that 7 percent of children under 7 years of age, if they are sick, are alone at home because the parent cannot stay at home with them? So if everything was as beautiful and as good as you guys used to paint here for us, then such amazing anomalies could not be reported. But it can be reported, as trade unions in Hungary have been crushed, trade union licenses and powers have been weakened. It is no coincidence that, while trade union coverage in Hungary was about 20 percent in 2000, it has now fallen to about 8 percent. And why am I bringing this here? You may think I don't know why this is mixed up here, but it's not like that at all. One of the laws to be amended is Act XXXIII of 1992 on the status of civil servants. With regard to law, the amendment states: the head of the district centre consults with district and county representative trade unions on matters relating to the relationship between district and county employees within the framework of a forum of interest. What does it mean for you to be representative? The law defines this as 10 percent. It is said that such a trade union is representative if its members reach 10 percent of the employees in the sector. Let me ask you this, and I ask the Secretary of State to answer this question: who has been consulted on this? What was the working union on education that said it was okay? I would add that the trade union coverage of the pedagogical society in Hungary is about 19 percent. This means that if you take this representativeness seriously, then there will be a union that will, if appropriate, stay out of this conflicting forum in a district, in a district, in a county. How can this happen? I really wish someone could answer that. Obviously, this is about the right to conclude a collective agreement, and it doesn't matter what negotiating position you're taking, who you might be, or which trade unions are the ones who can, if necessary, contradict, say, you. Some more data then: 62 percent of the Hungarian workers' jobs do not have a trade union. The situation is much better in the case of education, however, it is only 50 percent, but it is important to see that you have a very serious responsibility over the past eight years for the fact that these figures could have developed in Hungary. One of our most important national issues would be the creation of protection of the interests of Hungarian employees in Hungary. The thing is, in many cases, you don't hear anything like that here. It is very good anyway and should be supported when, in the context of the amendment of the OSH Act, you say that, in the event of the introduction of new technology, the employer is obliged to discuss with employees the consequences for health and safety. It's a good thing, but it's gonna take more than that. For example, if these working conditions threaten the health of workers, then we should talk about reimbursing early retirement, because this can only be a beauty patch on all the problems I have just outlined for you. The OSH representative may participate in the investigation of accidents at work, in the detection of diseases due to employment conditions. This is also a very good thing, to be supported, but little, my honourable fellow Members. Again, I would like to say a statistical number, and if they are false, you have forged it: in 2013 there were 17,000 accidents at work in Hungary. This increased by more than a third last year, with more than 23,000 reported accidents at work in Hungary. It's no coincidence that OSH is just a department at the Ministry level. In our opinion, we should pay much more attention to this. Then it is also a shameful thing that 29 percent of Hungarian workers are aware of the existence of a OSH representative at their own workplace. The proportion of this should be improved, and therefore, if we see such progress, which gives these Members at least such small pretend rights, we say that this should be supported, even if we say our criticism, even if you do not like it. [[15.00]] In a large number of employers, there are horrific abuses and irregularities, according to all surveys. Black employment is still significant in Hungary. It's not a coincidence. There has been a lot of talk about, for example, today that you are almost overloving the multinationals, but what terrible restrictions the domestic SME sector is facing. In large companies, the reduction of corporate tax has indeed provided significant extra resources, but the high tax burden for small ones leads directly to the fact that the black economy is still strong. If the black economy is strong, it's a law to put the safety regulations in the last place after the last. I think the numbers just presented prove that. It is also a terrible situation, ladies and gentlemen, that in the first quarter of 2018, there were 19 fatal accidents at work in Hungary and 97 accidents in the workplace. In total, a fine of HUF 17 million was imposed. There is no need to wonder when, say, there is a situation where a construction worker falls off the sixth floor without any protective equipment or insurance, and then his employer says that he wanted to commit suicide, and that's why the accident happened. Nonsense, unacceptable. If the authorities were to take these amazing, insufferable, labour-destructive conditions a little more seriously in terms of fines, we might not be able to meet such news. Indeed, the Fundamental Law is Article XVII. Article 2 (3) clearly states that all workers have the right to work in Hungary with respect to their health, safety and dignity. This is, however, what Hungarian workers do not often encounter. But again, in addition to criticism, this bill, this salad package, has eligible elements. For example, one of them is that they focus more on training and try to make it more attractive instead of growing in public employment. It is also a step to be supported that the training of these OSH representatives becomes more serious, even if they should be given much more power, and the trade unions, we add, but it is still a step forward. It is also that, for example, the Wage Guarantee Act is amended in such a way that payments are finally made within 5 days instead of 15 days. We remember well, say, the Calvary of almost a thousand employees of the Palóc-ker. Then it is also a positive and lifelong step forward that the simplified employment law is being amended in such a way that it is not until 8:00 that the administrators have to report these administrative matters to the NAV, but it has been changed to 9:00. This will make the situation of people working in agriculture much easier. And it's also a positive thing that teleworking is simplified. These are good things, my fellow Members, but I must say once again that we feel a little late. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-10-30-112	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Andras Aradski, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2018-10-30-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, T/2928 on the amendment of certain employment laws. I believe it is important, in the course of the debate on the legislative proposal, to underline in advance that the stability and development of a national economy are fundamentally influenced by three things. One is inflation, the other is economic growth and the third is the development of public debt. If these figures are in balance, they show an adequate standard, such as unemployment below 5 per cent, such as inflation below 3 per cent, low or declining government debt, then it can be said that the national economy is in good condition. In the past, we have said to such countries before 2010 that those countries, such as the Netherlands, Sweden, Denmark, have such information. Due to the economic performance of the last eight years, it is safe to say that Hungary is one of the countries of the Czech Republic from this approach. I dared to push this forward because, in the context of employment law, which we are talking about here, it must be underlined that employment figures are, indeed, the same as in the so-called 'bezg countries', i.e. at present, 3.8 percent unemployment. This means full employment, according to today's approach to science. The employment rate is 69.5 percent. We imagined and thought that we would bring our Czech friends in with this rate, but we have not yet succeeded, because they have moved on. If we look at EU statistics, we can also see that only the Czechs, Germans and Malteses have better data on employment rates and unemployment, i.e. employment figures. For all this stability, it took a very complex approach to economic policy, within which, of course, we find employment laws, and the Code of Work adopted in 2012 is a successful and well-targeted product of Hungarian legislation in this respect. The bill before us amends certain employment laws, which, in particular, is due to the fact that, in recent years, a number of laws have required, for example, further amendments in the field of employment in the field of implementation procedures on general administrative regulations, to be implemented by the tax authority, as well as in the legislation on electronic administration, penalties and measures, certain coercive measures and detention. The law on the promotion of employment and unemployment benefit in the context of the Act on Administrative Rules and the Implementation of the Tax Authority has been amended in the context of the recovery of aid from the National Employment Fund, the interest on transactions and delays and the exercise of equity. In order to ensure legal coherence, the concept of disabled and disabled persons and their relatives will also be clarified. These are changes which are clarified from the point of view of the application of the law. As a new element, the proposal sets out the rules for seeking a job for a person in re-integration detention who is serving imprisonment. This is a very important provision in my opinion. In this regard, I felt that the representative of the government also underlined the importance of this rule in his exposé, indicating that one of the very important instruments of reintegration is how we manage to help our misguided citizens and fellow nations back into a life of sinless life in the field of employment. The proposal amends very rightly the Code of Labour in relation to the status of civil servants12. § 3 of the Act on the applicability and the possibility of derogating collective agreements from the Labour Code. This has been clarified in the proposal. An important addition to the proposal is the development of representativeness among public service workers' trade unions in the area of district centres. [[15.10]] It is important that the level of trade unions, representative trade unions at district and county level should be consulted by the competent district manager on the necessary arrangements for legislation governing the world of work and for the adoption of collective agreements and labour rules. An important element of the amendment to the OSH Act is the amendment of the rules on distance work. Here, teleworking is not the so-called home office, but the employer's order to do the work at another workplace. This OSH regulation means that safe work must continue to be ensured regardless of the place of work. In addition, teleworking rules will be amended, modernised in the proposal, administrative burdens will be reduced and workers' rights to health and safe work will continue to be respected in the future. The proposal also clarifies the part of the Labour Control Act which gives OSH inspectors and labour authorities the power to qualify. This amendment is very appropriate and logical, because it also places the definition of the content of the employment relationship itself and allows the process of qualification to be followed. I believe that many debates, misunderstandings and later difficulties in the application of the law are overtaken by this amending proposal. What I can say on behalf of KDNP is that the proposed proposal is forward-looking, strengthens the world of work, strengthens Hungary's ability to provide as many workers as possible with its emerging economy in the future, and also, hopefully, strengthens the need to take action to remedy the labour shortage, not to combat unemployment. I believe that these guarantee rules, which will solve practical problems for interpretation, can serve these objectives. So KDNP will recommend your acceptance. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-30-114	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2018-10-30-115	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, I can join the lead speaker of Jobbik that we see a rather complete legislative amendment package, in which there are very, very many positive changes, but unfortunately, as a criticism, we also see a lot of negative changes. Surprisingly, I would like to talk a little bit about the positive changes, Mr Secretary, that they do not always hear negative things from the opposition side. One of these is that, before employment law, a parent who has received childcare care, childcare care, and is not a job seeker, has not been able to receive more than 30 hours of training, despite the fact that after the child's six months of age, he was able to pursue employment without any time limit. A 30-hour weekly training limit is removed for child care and childcare recipients. When we talk about how important it is to bring back to the labour market as soon as possible, so to speak, women who raise children at home, I think this is a very important positive change, so that we do not limit their participation in training for 30 hours. I think one of the biggest reasons for women's employment is that they are out of the labour market for a longer time, and that is precisely why they are at a disadvantage, especially now in the 21st century. In the century, when the world changes so quickly. The following positive change: the provisions on training aid will be clarified and the reimbursement of training costs will be eligible for the full range of subjects. In the past, this was only until the time of participation in the training required to obtain the input competences set out in the separate legislation, for a job seeker who was eligible for a replacement for employment, for a primary education degree or for a start-up in vocational training. In addition, the amendment sets out the category of persons who may receive, in addition to the reimbursement of training costs, a replacement allowance or an additional salary. The following positive change, although I will ask Mr State Secretary a question here: the range of aid for employment expansion will be extended with a new element. The employer may be granted a new allowance in order to employ workers who care for their relatives or women who are raising young children. In the case of a salary allowance, reasonable costs incurred in relation to the supervision and care of the child may be reimbursed at the request of the worker. This is a positive change, but it is a bit contradictory for me, because the worker who cares for his relative may not be a valuable worker for the employer. I know that a support system can encourage employers to employ such people, but how can we solve this duality? Every day we face the disadvantages of, say, mothers with more children, caregivers of their sick relatives, how to make this duality... Is it positive that the government is trying to solve this problem, is there really enough support for this to happen, or would it require stronger intervention? The proposal provides for a solution to ensure that, in the event of the recovery of the national employment fund support, interest on late payment or a bonus is not charged in parallel. In view of the prohibition of interest rate late payment of transaction interest, interest on late payment may not be charged in the future. And I've been told by a number of people that during the entire period of detention, the unemployment allowance is suspended, and the government is planning to release it. Yes, it is very important how those people can be brought back to the labour market, how they can be held, even if they are under detention, so that once they are out of detention, they can join our society positively. I think it's a positive change. I do not want to repeat the previous speakers, and then let me read some of the negative things that we object to in this amendment. The training of the person receiving childcare or childcare allowance shall not be eligible before the child's half-year age, and it is not appropriate to indicate the persons entitled to the training allowance before the child's half-year age. The legislator intends that training aid should only be granted to parents receiving care after the child's half-year of age, so that they are removed from the group of beneficiaries of pregnancy/child-bed allowance and baby-care premiums. I think we should consider that, Mr. Secretary. I understand that we are saying that until the child is six months old, the mother should deal only with the child in any way, we do not argue, I cannot argue in this, I am raising three children, too, but I think exactly when we talk about the disadvantage women who have children in the labour market, how they should be helped, and we have just reported a positive change, then I do not understand why we are introducing this ban, because I think that in today's accelerated world, with the explosion of the Internet, with the explosion of technology, I say that in many cases I do not prevent an experienced mother from taking part in training until the child's half-year. I would very much ask you to remove this amendment, and I think it is very wrong, Mr Secretary of State. The following negative change: the finding of an application is based on an examination of the income obtained prior to training. The calculation of the additional earnings previously covered the difference between the average earnings achieved before the training and the earnings earned during the training. [[15.20]] Under the amendment, average income will have to be taken into account instead of average earnings in the future. I wouldn't tell you what the concept of average earnings and the concept of average income is here. We think it's going to be a negative change in the law. I would also like to recommend this for consideration. The following is: the public employment body also promotes job search, job access and adequate employment and job retention through labour market services. In particular, professional support for the labour market programme and labour market service providers can also be achieved through the provision of professional support to the beneficiary, a public benefit organisation established by the Minister for Employment Policy. This amendment leaves the name of the Minister responsible for employment policy and instead leaves only the title "Secretary." This type of amendment has been made by the legislator in several parts of the existing law. The question is that, once the proposal has been adopted, it will have the right to have the funds to support employment policy objectives, because, instead of the clear label, the Minister for Employment Policy, it will be sufficient to designate the Minister for Employment to decide, for example, on the purposes of the National Employment Fund and the use of his money from the allocated funds instead of the Minister for Employment. Who will be the current minister? Why do you need this move? If we are talking about employment policy, why is it not obvious that it will remain the minister responsible for employment to decide on these funds? Or is the government planning something else? I don't think it's a positive change that anyone here can decide, and then, say, Gergely Gulyás, the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office, decides what happens to these funds. Public employment has been admitted to be reduced by the government for years and significantly reduces the financial expenditure and thus the number of participants involved. The current government move to place people in different trainings instead of public employment would be commendable in itself. We have never said that the eradication of unemployment can be achieved by an education system. But what we have seen in recent years is that certain companies have specialized in the fact that all kinds of trainings have also been launched to Hajdú-Bihar County, Mr. Secretary of State, and there are a lot of forms of training where they form pasta-crushing people, basket weavers, broommakers. In essence, we could also say that the situation in the labour market does not give us what kind of training is being started, but we see that certain companies benefit very well, poor unemployed people or job seekers are running around, and after one qualification they acquire another qualification. In essence, these trainings will be carried out in months, they will receive the documents, but we do not see that they will then be able to work on the labour market. I think that more energy should be devoted to this and that training should be carried out that will serve the kind of labour shortage that we are facing in Hungary today. I would like to join in the speech by my better fellow Member, who spoke about accidents at work and sickness. What we see is that every year there is more anxiety than workers, and very few people use sick money, and only for a very short period of time. But I'm sure you know, Mr. Secretary, that the amount we spent on sick money has increased by HUF 9 billion in the budget. Everyone would think that this HUF 9 billion supports the fact that more people go on sick leave, that workers can say again that they trust their jobs and do not endanger them. But if you look at the figures, this amount of HUF 9 billion has been used by far fewer people, which means that they are using it for much more serious diseases, or what my fellow Member said was that the number of accidents at work has increased very much, after which it will fall out of work for a longer period of time, or it will be eliminated permanently, because it suffers mutilation or health damage after which it will no longer be able to return to the labour market. In essence, all the data support what my fellow Member has said about the vulnerability of workers to employers in Hungary today. One of the basic laws of this is the Code of Work on how the revised Code of Work serves employers and does not protect workers. In addition to the many positive changes, Mr Secretary of State, some of which I have listed and others before me, there are a number of critical points in this amendment. If they stay that way, we will refrain from adopting the law. I hope that a number of amendments will be taken into account by the Ministry and will change this legislative package in a positive direction. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-10-30-116	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Sándor Székely, the lead speaker of the Democratic Coalition Group.
u2018-10-30-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am in a difficult situation because the previous two speakers, who spoke to him from Jobbik and the MSZP, have already expressed very much the thoughts that are our thoughts. Before I go into the details, we also need to talk about what moment we are talking about these amendments to the law. It has been said that these things need to be modified because the country is already in such good shape, the economy is spinning and wages are so fantastic that the governing party is forced to touch all kinds of laws. The reason why it is clear that one million people in Hungary today are registered on minimum wage, an amazing amount of people earning average wages or less. The average wage in Hungary today is EUR 600 and the minimum wage is EUR 400. Note that the rent for an apartment is nearly EUR 300; just so we know what we are talking about, what the situation of Hungarian workers is. And since they are in such a situation, it is also quite clear that they are not very jumping at their workplaces. Of course, they have a job, and not only do they have one, but they usually have two or three, which, of course, is not announced, so that they may be able to ensure that their families and their own livelihoods are somewhat fine. If someone thinks that the Hungarian population is happy, then I must say that they are not, they are not pleased. A large part of the Hungarian population lives from month to month, can hardly get anywhere, and is constantly afraid of their bosses, the boss is at their mercy They have no rights, no trade unions to protect them, because you have brought trade union laws and a labour law that has taken away licenses from trade unions. Thus, trade unions cannot be formed in the workplace, but even if they do, employers are in a much better position than they are, and it is quite simply impossible that trade unions work to protect workers or to fight for better wages, better working conditions. We can also be sure of what my opposition partner said, that people are working to enjoy a well-deserved rest after retirement. But we all know that in Hungary this is given to very, very few people, because they still have to work after retirement to pay the rent, because they cannot pay their pension. My father and mother couldn't pay for it if I didn't support them, even though they worked hard to get through their lives; one was a deputy school principal, and the other was an entrepreneur, but they couldn't make a living on their pensions. Think about what's going on with people who haven't had the same path of life as them. You can imagine. Of course, we all see older professionals who shouldn't be working a long time ago, but instead they're standing there doing all kinds of auxiliary work. We also see the conditions under which these auxiliary work is carried out, of course not only by specialists but also by others. [[15.30]] Mr KDNP also said how good public finances are. Of course, they started their government by stealing HUF 3000 billion from Hungarian people, private pension funds. This way, of course, can be relatively good public finances, but if you look at the numbers, then we all know that those numbers are not so good. In 2011, he was beaten up, his new Labour Code was brought in, there were trade unions that didn't want to sign, and there were some who signed it. Of course, the labor code was introduced, protests were made against it, but they didn't use much. So I think that when these salad laws are introduced, which, of course, has a good part, as the speakers before me have already said, we understand, but, in fact, the whole thing should be recreated. They should be doing a work law book now, pay attention to me now, which they are negotiating with trade unions, and not just putting it under their noses, and perhaps even with the opposition, what they are thinking about, when they think that Hungarian workers, the Hungarian average people, should be regulated about the working conditions, then perhaps the organisations that defend them could also be asked. And then maybe we shouldn't make laws that are all very important issues, but here, re-integration with prisoners, modification of training grants, regular service arrangements, wage guarantees, labour control, issuing an official certificate, it's got an amazing amount of stuff in it. It's all dissociative, and it doesn't follow some sort of unified thing. But no wonder, we know exactly what the goal is. The goal is that multinational, foreign or Hungarian multinational companies in our country can exploit Hungarian workers. And it seems that while you are supposed to always defend Hungarian interests, Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises can only survive. We have no idea why you're doing this, but that's the way it is. To talk about specifics, let's start with some positive cases. The proposal has been submitted to allow participants to participate more than 30 hours a week in training, in line with the limit of working alongside the child. This is indeed, we think it is really forward-looking, it is important that women, besides raising children, are able to return to the world of work as soon as possible. Indeed, it is not good for them to fall out for years and not be able to set a normal course. Any person who is able to work with public wage support shall, at his request, be reimbursed for the justified training incurred in relation to the supervision of the child and the care of the relative. Training aid is increased from the level of public labour to the level of minimum wage to encourage participation in public work in this training. This is really good, but my colleagues and opposition colleagues have also told us that this is very good, that at last it would be very important to teach the unemployed or the job seekers or those who want to change jobs that can be used in the labour market, and not unnecessary things that are not needed in the Hungarian reality, on the Hungarian reality planet. The employer can now conclude an agreement with the employment office for language training if he then undertakes to apply for employment. We think that's okay, too. The OSH representative shall be trained for quality training only in adult training. This ensures that training is carried out exclusively in the organisation of licensed trainers, on the basis of a training programme pre-qualified by experts, when applying with an appropriate degree. At the same time, it is worth noting that the proposal is adopted in accordance with Article 29. The paragraph introduced in Article 5 of the Control Directive, which is not acceptable in the rule of law, must be ensured by the independence of the OSH authority. If the Minister wishes to regulate it, it must be published in the legislation. Well, so much for positives, and a few specifics for negatives. Article 12 of the proposal. Under § 5 of the Act, it strengthens the concept of persons with disabilities. In accordance with the provisions in force, he has changed his ability to work, who is physically or mentally disabled, or who, after his medical rehabilitation, reduces his chances of working and maintaining a job due to physical or mental impairment. The percentage requirements represent a substantial tightening up compared to this. You will continue to reduce these people, people with disabilities, to second and third citizens. That's terrible. These people live here with us, our children, our brothers, our parents, who still want to do something. But with this regulation, they're out of work, so they can become second-class citizens. Several people here have said the problem of representativeness. Article 18 of the proposal The problem is that the district would not be organised at district level, but at county level. It should be a matter for the district. The situation of trade unions is more complicated because it can be representative in some counties and not in other counties. Thus, at the district level, what reaches the level of more than half of the counties will have to be considered representative. With regard to the representativeness of trade unions in the educational field, it would be appropriate to adapt the whole system. It is a big problem for you, which now follows that school principals should be given back to the exercise of employer's powers, so that the representativeness of trade unions can be understood in the conclusion of collective agreements. We know that this is a fantasy, we know that you do not want the educational institution or don't give it to God, any other institutions, the municipalities in fact and in substance to live independently, because then you would not be able to control everything centrally. And even the terrible thing that could happen is that in a school district on Saturday, they might be doing something different than, say, in a peaceful Chabai. This would indeed be terrible, and it would probably ruin the country as a whole. For the part relating to labour inspection: the labour authority shall classify the relationship established on the basis of actual employment, taking into account that the choice of type should not be aimed at restricting or reducing the legitimate interest of the worker, nor can the contract be withdrawn from the rules of labour law with the same will. In addition, the draft law clarifies the concept of post-control and that the amount of the payment obligation should always be calculated taking into account the minimum wage for full-time work as defined in the legislation in force at the start of the labour inspection. On the basis of the relevant decision of the Constitutional Court, an administrative action against a decision in the field of labour control can be brought on grounds other than by reference to nothing. With reference to what has just been said, to the general section and to the list of essential parts, we must say that, although there are things that we value as positive, but since this is a salad law, and there is something in it that we cannot accept, we will propose to the faction and the faction will suggest to Parliament that we do not adopt this law. Thank you very much. [[Zsolt Gréczy applauds.]]
u2018-10-30-118	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Bence of Turdai, the lead speaker of the dialogue faction.
u2018-10-30-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, We are talking about an employment legislative package, and the positive and negative aspects of its details have already been explained in detail by our dear pro-government and opposition colleagues. For my part, I would rather talk about what is the fundamental mistake in the way we all, not only pro-government, but also opposition, often commit, when we talk about employment policy. It's the word for employment, it's a tell. This is a cultivation structure or grammatical structure suffering from other wordings. They force people to do things they don't want to do, they don't care about something, they're concerned about others. This is the acceptance of the interests of capitalist capital, their ideology. This is in practice reflected in the current Hungarian government policy and, unfortunately, in the government policies of most countries. We in the Dialogue believe that this approach is infinitely harmful. What we see is that wage labor colonizes our lives. It is very revealing, when opposition colleagues here said that they should retire earlier, because then they can enjoy life a little, free from work a little. Does this mean that for four to five decades working people do not have the opportunity to enjoy life? The balance between work and private life has been tremendously shifted. The Dialogue believes that the most important objective of all labour policies would be to restore this balance, not in the interests of capitalist capital, but in the interests of the people. [[15.40]] We believe that everyone has a need for valuable, meaningful, value-creating work, a work in which they can be completed, a work that they do not force, but which they choose for themselves, which can be not just a job, but a profession that they gladly follow throughout their lives, what they serve, and which is very often not in the world of paid wages. Today, millions of people in Hungary are working without paying for that sacrifice, that added value, because they do not do this work in the labour market or at least not through the primary labour market. The work done at home, the love work, the work done by family members, the work done by helping friends and acquaintances, the work done in civil society is all work for which there is no wages, but it is equally important, indispensable, value-creating, and what today's Hungarian society simply ignores and ignores. We would like Hungary not to be a society of labour force and forced labour. The Dialogue wants people not to work because otherwise they will starve, not by this type of economic pressure, by such continuous existential pressure, by such distressing, stressful, infinitely unhealthy depression on people, and not just for this reason. We want everyone to be able to complete their work, get the training they need for their chosen profession, and have the choice of how and where they are located within their chosen profession. We would like Hungary not to be a country of exploited, robot-like workers and then of burned-out and sick workers if people were not employed in these unhealthy, repressive jobs, but were motivated, enthusiastic people working in jobs that suit their own interests throughout the country. When we look at how our competitiveness and productivity have evolved in recent years and decades, we see that, despite all technological developments, despite the technologies imported from the West or new management perspective, Hungarian productivity is not increasing, because people who are not motivated are not starting to work in the morning on an internal basis, but are simply driven by economic pressure, they are not going to do a really good job, because good work can only be done with heart and soul, and unfortunately, today's Hungarian society is not giving the opportunity for many. So if we want to see a productive economy, a prosperous society and its peaceful, happy workers and not workers, then we should fundamentally change our approach to so-called employment policy. Therefore, the Dialogue says that it is always worth making changes of a type that are even small steps, but which are in this direction. One of these very important steps is to reduce working time. My fellow Members have already mentioned that just too few people work too much, the distribution of work is very uneven, and indeed, the Hungarians work on average 1900 hours a year, while in a more developed Western or Northern European economy this figure is only 1300-1400 hours. Why is it that a Hungarian employee has to work much more than a third for a much lower wage? The 40-hour working week and the five-day working week have been an accepted standard for many decades, and the actual hours worked at the annual level are constantly decreasing. It would be time for us to think about how political regulation could finally follow reality, how we could start talking about 35 weeks of work in a few years or a few decades, and then 30 hours of work. It is clear that the public sphere, the large corporate sphere, must play a pioneering role in this. The other area, with which we strengthen the rights and bargaining position of workers: from the restoration of the broken trade union movement to the system of trilogue negotiations, the restoration of the National Council of Interests is all a step that is practically binding once a government implementing a humanist, human-centred policy is finally put into power in Hungary, but the same element is to free people from the economic pressure, the pressure to work, to have a basic income for everyone that allows the purchase of minimum living items, just in order that no one has to accept a job offer, be it any humiliating and unsuited to their abilities and desires, so that they can pay their bills at the end of the month. We must free people from this economic pressure, from this economic violence, which is why it is necessary to introduce the basic income, and of course also because Hungarian workers are underpaid unfairly. That is why the Dialogue says that the net minimum wage should be increased to HUF 150 000 with immediate effect, so let us say that a fair tax system that puts low and average earners in a much lighter position should be restored, less burdensome, in Hungarian: it provides them with higher disposable income, and instead taxing the large capital in the first place. So if we really want to make a good labour policy, let us not concern people, but free our lives from colonizing wage labor, free people from the pressure to work, and take steps towards a more humane labour policy. Thank you so much for listening.
u2018-10-30-120	Thank you, Congressman. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Now it's possible to make a two-minute comment. I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Carpát.
u2018-10-30-121	Mr President, Dear House, I appeal to Mr Secretary of State to the effect that the way and the way this debate goes forward would have a major impact if some misunderstandings were to be resolved and some charges clarified. Here, both at Commission and Parliament's level, the fact that employment statistics are strongly distorted by pro-government interventions that are about the number of new jobs created, but ignores three factors. On the one hand, the methodology of the KSH, which, in my view, is not the most perfect for measuring employment, is already on the same line as those who, as doctors, nurses and others, perform their work every 40-50-60 hours per week. Therefore, with regard to the statistical methodology, it would be worth trying to clarify what you mean by a full-fledged workplace, as statistics are distorted by three factors. On the one hand, there are large numbers, so there are thousands or even tens of thousands of student workers in the workforce. On the other hand, it is unclear, Mr State Secretary, how many of the Hungarians travelling abroad continue to appear in the Hungarian statistics, because many people do not write down the fact that they have now left abroad, that their social security status is in place, that their permanent residence is in place, but they do not do work in Hungary, so the question to be clarified is where they are to be included. Thirdly, it would also be worth clarifying how many of the public workers are included in the government statistics that sum up the number of newly created jobs. Thus, we would be very interested in the statements that are in order on these issues, and they do not say that 500 thousand or 600 thousand new jobs have been created in Hungary since 2010, while these three distorting factors take at least half of this number, but rather a little more, immediately. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-30-122	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman László Hajdu in two minutes.
u2018-10-30-123	Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to comment on only one part of the salad law, the proposal amending the six laws, which amends the labour code so that it can be removed from the labour code in the future if we accept this by reducing the collective agreement, which is not explained, the possibilities given by the Labour Code, or by increasing them in the collective agreement. [[15.50]] I'm going out on a limb in the case of employees in the district of education, so KLIK's civil servants, when the director has already said that he doesn't have any real employer powers. You'd think that the school district director, who is the principal of 15-20 schools or something like that, would think that there is an employer's right, but in reality no one has a real right. Where will that right be? For example, in the case of Budapest, two districts have one district director. Who has the law? Or will these rights be in Budapest's school district? Here's what I see. With this agreement, the collective agreement, if, going from one school to another, even at three schools, the eight hours of a teacher whose watch cannot get together in his own school, with this change in the future, a history teacher can no longer be brought before a labour court, even in three schools, teaching history to meet his classes, but in the context of this amendment, the public servant goes where his employer sends him, because they will accept a collective agreement that he must do so. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]]
u2018-10-30-124	Thank you, Congressman. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No signal.]] I don't see a candidate. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Bodo as rapporteur.
u2018-10-30-125	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you very much for the comments, both the supportive, commendable words and the critics. I believe that together these can be more useful and even more appropriate rules for life, which can make all of our lives easier and easier. With your permission, I would like to answer the specific questions first, and then I would also like to express my opinion on a general approach or perhaps specific statements by its representatives. In recent years, the measures taken have, moreover, succeeded in halting deteriorating labour accident trends. The number of fatal work accidents has been decreasing since 2016. The increase in the number of non-lethal work accidents has also stopped, but, of course, an area as we say, and we feel so, I believe, that one accident is a lot here, too. By the way, it is true that sometimes we hear quite amazing specific cases in the news, to which we all say that this could not be prevented. With your permission, I say that every window that has been broken or broken cannot be fitted with a non-applied grid. I believe that the individual's responsibility should be as present as the employer's, and, of course, we do not go away in this respect either, so there is definitely a desire for cooperation here. Besides, the development of working conditions remains our task, which has been formulated as a demand by several people, and I can give a very positive answer to this, as a specific GINOP project will be launched in the next period, which I believe will deliver results in these areas, which, in turn, will primarily choose the methodology to first assess, gain experience, make suggestions, warns, and only in the next period will it be possible for some here to arrive at what may be an immediate step in order to show up with strict action and punishment. It is clear, of course, that if our colleagues experience such a flagrant violation, there is no room for any warning, any in-between, we expect a very decisive action from our colleagues. By the way, there are two sectors that are particularly sensitive from this point of view, obviously calculated from the statistical data, we have concluded which are the two, but I believe that many would hit the first if this were a riddle, namely: one is agriculture and the other is construction. These are two areas which my colleagues want to monitor more closely this year and the following year, since both are a dangerous plant, and there are a lot of work accidents here compared to their proportions. It was also considered how and how the number of work accidents is related to the EU average. Obviously, this depends on many things, but it is basically around the EU average, but, as I stressed, there is, of course, always something to be done here, and these figures should be reduced everywhere. The risks to health have also been a topic that has been formulated by several people. This has seen several rounds of negotiations at the consultative forum of entrepreneurs and the government and in their working committee since 2015. At the last VKF meeting in September, I asked the partners to make sure that there was a concrete proposal, a concrete measure, because so far the sites, I mean employers and workers, did not reach a common agreement on this subject, but I think it is time for this to come up with some concrete results. In the area of training support, I would also like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that it is certainly worthwhile to interpret the figures in such a case and in accordance with life. By the time the child is six months old, the mother should take care of the child and do not undergo up to a week's 40 - hour training, i.e. eight hours a day. Let us think, of course, of respect for individual opinions, if the mother spends eight hours a day of training from a few months old to a child, then I think that this can be at the expense of family harmony. Of course, after six months, this will be possible. Several questions and comments were also raised in relation to the shortening of the Minister. I would like to inform those who have suggested that this is a technical amendment, since the Employment Act 7 is applicable. Paragraph 2 introduces the abbreviation of the term Minister responsible for employment policy, so it is obvious that in the order of this bill, the Minister for Employment will provide for the Minister for Employment in the future. With regard to wage support, I indicate that the supported worker, if he uses someone instead of himself, can claim the related costs. The next set of questions concerned part of how and how the representativeness calculation for the trade union next year could be interpreted in the context of the amendment. This amendment concerns the transformation of the state institution-keeping centre and the establishment of district centres. As a result, there is no exclusion from the calculation of representativeness in the district centres, but, in accordance with previous rules, the district centres retain the competence to regulate or implement the establishment of representativeness at district level, and I would like to stress this in particular. The government regulation details the rules of national and sectoral representativeness, and the measurement within the district centres remains a specific competence, so I think that is absolutely reassuring in this situation. The concept of union representativeness, I have a feeling that we do not interpret it in the same way a little bit, because in order for a union to conclude a collective agreement, it is no longer dependent on the existence of representativeness. For the conclusion of a collective agreement, the KJT. The rules of the Labour Code apply also under the scope of the Code of Work. The Fundamental Law of Hungary lays down that trade unions and other interest organisations can freely operate and operate under the law of the association, so workers are entitled to establish a trade union with the employer. Thus, in its formation and organisation, the government and other public bodies have no responsibility. Specific data on labour inspections can already be interpreted, as data for the third quarter of 2018 are already partially available, and the percentage of undeclared work is unfortunately still decisive, but there is a minimal reduction here. By the end of September last year, 9500 people were exposed to undeclared employment, while this number this year, as I mentioned, is not yet a definitive figure of around 7500 people. The State will prioritise the reduction of this infringement through the labour authority's control tool system, in particular with regard to the recurrent application of the Labour Control Directives, which is therefore an ongoing audit methodology. [[16.00]] A fine to reduce undeclared work shall be compulsory in the event of the detection of an irregularity. A warning shall not be used for the most serious infringements. In relation to the concept of a person with a changed working ability, the amendment also refers to the fact that this is precisely extended. So the unification of the concepts used by each law and the unification of the application of the law are the background to this. In this respect, however, an important position that should be considered here: it is not about amending the Code of Work, but about ensuring the coherence of legislation and adapting to the changed legislative environment. Then I would like to respond with respect to some of the opinions. I would like to thank Mr Bányai for his opinion on the latest employment figures. Indeed, it is an important part of the legislation, of course, of how and how the economy is performing, because, on occasion, we need to make these amendments clearly, and here, in the context of the change in the labour market, this continuous monitoring is also a fundamental task. This proposal or package of proposals is partly and indeed the responsibility of the whole, but we must see in part that the representatives of the economic partners, chambers, employers and workers with whom we are in constant contact have actually communicated these needs to us. We also need to adapt to the current challenges in the labour market by shaping legislation, and, as I may have said earlier, a change of approach is certainly justified, since in cases where there are no immediate, immediate and risk-preventive measures, it is worth following the methodology to have an observation, an experience, a warning, a proposal, and then, if necessary, a punishment. Mr Ander Balázs gave his opinion on the salad law, which I respect, but these were born on the basis of proposals from life, and these were obviously worth discussing, and it is logical to discuss in a package. There is absolutely no mention in these laws of how vulnerable workers are. In fact, I felt that you were translating political messages, which you obviously have the right to do, of course, but since you did not really express professional criticisms or professional opinions in relation to the law, and even words of appreciation, I think that our current idea, our proposal, has achieved its purpose. After all, these employment indicators and figures, which are available here, are also relevant at European Union level, so I do not perceive that we have some kind of failure in this respect at the level of legislation. The new forms of employment have been raised by you and several of our fellow Members. Well, that's true, what didn't work a few years ago was that the job-seekers knocked on the district employment department, what happened was that they put a flyer in their hands on the way out, and they said that we were hoping that he would succeed, find jobs, and then he'd try to sell himself there, unfortunately, in a nasty way, we'd heard about a few places. Nowadays, a whole new methodology is being adopted or mastered by these employment departments and their colleagues, and the essence of this is to have a pre-screening when we look at what jobs those jobseekers are capable of and what they are capable of. By the way, I think you have asked me that in part, because it is a damaging loss of time for everyone, if we send 30 people to, say, one or two of those jobs, and let's say, one or two of those 30 are just meeting the basic criteria. I mean, it makes more sense that if there's already a pre-screening that doesn't mean we're sending in that other 28 because obviously we can manage everyone's time. The other thing that is new in the life of district employment classes is clearly that we need to be more open to employers. This was not the case before because the situation in the labour market was different. So employers have not been very partners so far, since they have not actually sought employment. Fortunately, this situation has changed recently, and this harmonious cooperation, which I hope will seem harmonious in the future, needs to be mastered, developed, colleagues need to go to employers, and I believe that this will certainly bring employment data forward and help as many people as possible, as many families as possible. I would also like to thank you and my fellow Members for your call to strengthen your training. It is quite clear that, in this situation, we need to be more thoughtful about training, and in the case of training, it may have been a little misguided by the person who said that he is involved in more training or even continuous training, and that it will never really be over. Well, that is not the case, three specific training courses can be completed or three training courses can be undertaken, and the job must be done in the knowledge of these. I would also like to thank Mr András Aradski for the words of appreciation. Indeed, the indicators of the labour market are positive, but, of course, this cannot give us too much satisfaction, because there is still much to do. International comparison can always be an appropriate form, since at least in the case of the V4 it is worth seeing how and how we are progressing. I have already mentioned in part the new challenges of the labour market here in relation to the previous ones. So we must definitely apply these. In particular, one is part-time and the other is teleworking, on which I feel that we still have shortcomings, but I can account for very good examples, and I believe that this new area will lead us forward. Here, we are particularly interested in young people and mothers with small children. I believe that this method of work will become more and more widespread, and in order to ensure that this does not come as a surprise to us, who are also drawing up legislation in relation to this work, we must already address this. Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: the return to the labour market should indeed be helped in the case of mothers with small children, thank you very much for your support. Here I have just said that until the child is six months old, I still have my reservations. There can be no question that mothers with small children are, by the way, a very serious reserve of labour. Of course, this is also important for the country, for the performance of the economy, but I do not think that there is any debate between us in this House either that these women, mothers, are, by the way, returning to the labour market in terms of their personal ambition, keeping their knowledge of the labour market, indeed, if they choose to take the course of part-time work, teleworking or in some other form, in the case of proper nursery care, we must support this voluntary decision. We are talking about a technical amendment, and I would like to emphasise this here too, so what you asked me about the Minister's definition, I think that I have already been able to answer that. Member Sándor Székely: it has not been said that the situation in the labour market is fantastic, at least I have not heard it so, but the fact that I have said before that there are new challenges has changed this market. I feel that your opinion may be in a phase delay; it is not just that, in fact, it is not typical that the leaders keep the workers under some kind of terror, but that a lot of employers complain to us in quotes that they should be very scared and almost very sensitive to the workers, because they say that they will soon move on, leave and look for another place. So I can imagine, obviously, as many houses as there are so many different opinions, but as I mentioned, it's a world where the leadership is strict and the employees move on to these conversations. I believe that these are in no way worthwhile and cannot be regulated by central legislation. [[16.10]] With regard to pensioners and pensioners, I have felt something, perhaps more than a few of our fellow Members, obviously from the opposition side, that this is some kind of criminal activity. This is not the case at all, since it should be stressed here that a voluntary option is provided with the appropriate tax discount, and it will be decided whether, as an individual worker or as a member of a pensioner's cooperative, he is fit in his life to pursue further economic activities. In the case of pensioners' cooperatives, and even in the case of pensioners' employment, the opinion of pensioners' organisations is extremely positive, and they say that in the case of a pensioner's cooperative, they are happy to join, of course, counting that, let's say, they do not work for two months during the summer period, because they have to take care of grandchildren, or, in the case of grandpas, they say that I garden in the autumn, in the spring, I do not undertake such an activity, so, of course, as I mentioned here, the ideas and aspects of the individual must be respected. Congressman Bence of Tordai, you were also talking about misconceptions. I do not think that, in relation to such a legal, technical amendment, this should not be taken into account in these legislative proposals, that is not what this is about. Obviously, this is your opinion, as I have said before, and I respect it, but I would certainly suggest to you that you take account of the comprehensive social measures that can be justified by countless examples, but allow me to recommend these things to you only from wage agreements to career models to tax relief. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát spoke about a variety of statistics. Well, indeed, I have to admit that there are several methods, different methods of calculation, and I would suggest that we all accept the data of the HCSO as official, which, I believe, is moderate. By the way, you know that the labour market is a very colourful world, and in fact, which, let's say, existed this morning, is probably going to change by tomorrow morning. There are obviously seasonal trends related to sectors, for example, but for example, September-October for young workers is a time when there are relatively more jobseekers. By the way, it is important to see here with regard to young workers, and I think that this may have caused one of the most dilemmas in the interpretation of data, that it is 10,5 percent in Hungary, which is obviously a lot at first hearing, and a lot, but, for example, the EU average is 15 percent. So these young people, when they finished their studies in the beginning of the summer, were obviously a little bit off, and then, perhaps, now they're going to start looking for work, maybe the first idea wasn't perfect. Here, therefore, there are relatively rapidly changing life situations, which are also quite difficult for statistics to follow. And to Mr László Hajdu, I believe, in the combined reply, when I answered the questions raised by several Members, I hope I gave a proper answer. I thank you once again very much for being so active on this important subject, thank you for both supporting and critical proposals, and I believe that the Hungarian Parliament will be able to support these legislative proposals as much as possible in order to make the working conditions and all the areas we wanted to regulate even more effective during the next period. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-30-126	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Proposals for amendments may be submitted by 16 a.m. on 5 November. We now have a general debate on the bill relating to the obligations of the EU and amending certain laws on the subject of tax administration until closure. The government referral is T/2931. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Norbert Izer, Minister of State of the Ministry of Finance, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor.
u2018-10-30-127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, On 19 October 2018, the Government submitted to Parliament a bill relating to EU obligations and amending certain tax laws on the subject of tax administration. The proposal, as shown by its title, mainly includes the necessary amendments to fulfil Hungary's EU obligations and reflects the feedback received in the practical application of the new tax administration system. In addition, in the proposal before you, there are also some clarification and interpretation amendments that are necessary in each of the tax categories. Dear Parliament, Let us therefore look at the content of the amendments concerning each tax type that the government requests the Parliament's decision. The proposal initiates a slight clarification of the rules adopted in spring on the simplification of the cafeteria system in personal income taxation. The clarification makes the application of the provisions clearer, and the proposal also aims at ensuring consistency with other elements of the legal system by including in law minor changes of a legal nature. With regard to the general sales tax, the higher performance of the economy will increase the tax exemption threshold from HUF 8 million to HUF 12 million next year, which could make it easier for more than 650 thousand taxpayers from a financial and administrative point of view. The bill also serves to reduce tax administration by assuming 50 per cent of private use for private passenger cars used for private purposes, thereby eliminating the obligation to provide specific support for private and business use, i.e. road registration. Of course, this presumption can be overturned by the company at any time by keeping an accurate record, so a deduction of more than 50 per cent can be applied. This simplification is, in our view, a huge administrative relief for companies that follow the law. The government wanted to provide the reduced VAT rate of 5% on the sale of new residential properties for four years in 2015 on a temporary basis, i.e. until 31 December 2019, which the Parliament adopted in this form. In the light of the introduction of the preferential rate, this bill sets out a transitional rule for constructions that may be extended by 2020. This allows, in essence, a reduced rate of 5 per cent to be applied to residential immovable property in structural condition on the last day of 2019. Compliance with EU law also makes it necessary to amend the VAT rules on the organisation of travel. The bill therefore provides for rules on margin taxation to be applied to all travel management services provided to users and eliminates the fact that the margin can be calculated on a multi-road basis. As they lead to a significant change in stakeholders, the bill introduces the amendment only from 2020 in order to ensure sufficient preparation time. With regard to excise legislation, it should be pointed out that, taking advantage of the option provided by the EU excise directive, the country provides for a reduction in excise duty on gas oil used by vehicles and buses over 7,5 tonnes of total weight, i.e. commercial gas oil. However, the rate of the benefit may range only to the level of the EU tax minimum and should therefore be kept under constant review each year in the light of exchange rate changes. On the basis of this year's review, the level of tax relief for commercial gas oil should be slightly reduced from 2019. As a result, at the current gas oil tax rate, the rate of refundable tax is reduced from HUF 7 per litre to HUF 3.5 per litre. However, it should be pointed out that the government will continue to provide the highest level of benefit to stakeholders under EU rules. On the basis of the bill submitted, the tax law changes only slightly. The amendment also includes the introduction of three new procedural duty exemptions and clarification of the rules for payment of electronic procedural duty. [[16.20]] Dear House, With regard to the regulation of tax administration procedures, in recent years we have constantly sought to reduce the administrative burden on taxpayers, which also has an incentive effect on the development of the economy. We have also sought to continuously strengthen the tax administration in order to reduce the black economy and increase budgetary revenue. With this bill, too, we want to achieve these objectives. Taking into account those objectives, as one of the measures to be highlighted in the area of tax administration, in order to reduce administration, we will remove the reporting obligation on employers and paying agents concerning the qualifications, qualifications, qualifications of insured persons and the name of the institution issuing the supporting documents and the number of the document. Among the economic whitening measures, it should be pointed out that the tax authorities have to carry out mandatory checks on long-term loss-making companies which, during two consecutive business years, account being taken of the increased risk of tax avoidance in both financial years, the net turnover reaches HUF 60 billion separately and the taxable profit is zero or negative in both financial years. However, when preparing the amendment, we also took into account that start-ups typically make one-off, high-value investments that are not always covered by revenues during the first period after the start-up of their operations, and therefore compulsory monitoring will not apply to companies that start up without legal predecessors in their first four business years. The Council of the European Union has adopted an amendment to the regulation on administrative cooperation and combating fraud in the field of value added tax to strengthen administrative cooperation in the field of value added tax. In view of this, the Tax Administration Act is supplemented by the rules necessary in connection with the cooperation of the foreign tax authority official in the verification carried out by the domestic tax authority. The amendment of the tax administration order, like the general administrative procedure, will ensure the protection of journalistic resources, which can only be broken through in criminal proceedings under strict conditions, with the possibility of refusing to testify. In order to help enforce the rule of law, the bill will clearly specify how long the insurance measure and the temporary insurance measure can last and how long payment from the blocked payment account can be authorised. In the future, the State tax and customs authorities may grant a payment to the farmer during both the temporary insurance measure and the insurance measure if the taxpayer is unable to make payments from sources other than the blocked property or would suffer a disproportionate restriction on his activity. As a measure to reduce the burden on taxpayers, the amount of the default penalty for non-compliance with the corporate tax advance obligation will be reduced from 20 per cent to 10 per cent from 1 January 2019 on the basis of the proposal. In order to increase the effectiveness of the enforcement procedures, the powers of the State tax and customs authorities will be extended with additional enforcement tasks as from 1 January 2019, so that the State tax and customs authorities will also take over the tasks of forensic enforcement. The draft law also lays down the scope of the enforceable documents relating to the performance of these tasks and the rules governing the enforcement procedure. In addition to the above, we have made further minor clarifications to assist in the application of the law and interpretation of the law in the tax administration laws. The amendments to the Customs Act highlight changes in the rules on the release of the security in favour of farmers. Under the rules in force, when the farmer completes his customs activities, he shall be able to redeem the commitment acquired from the credit institution, financial institution or insurance company only after the expiry of three years from the last customs clearance. The resulting costs represent a significant burden on the parties concerned, while revenue from their customs activities is no longer expected. This may lead to liquidity problems for some farmers, and therefore the amendment of the law seeks to remedy this situation by holding back the financial elements provided for the combined collateral, including cash, only for one year by the tax authority. Thus, after the expiry of the period, they may be released again and made available to the undertaking. In addition, the bill clearly sets out the rules for contributors who can be used by customs representatives, thereby standardising practices that sometimes conflict with each other. Honourable Members, The amendment of the corporate tax law ensures the introduction of the necessary provisions for harmonisation with EU law. In line with EU expectations, Hungary must meet the requirements of the Directive against tax avoidance practices directly affecting the functioning of the internal market, which aims to combat tax avoidance and protect the tax base. The directive is being transposed in several steps. The regulation on controlled foreign companies was first introduced by Hungary from the beginning of 2017, and the amendment under the proposal contains part of the addition and technical clarification of these rules. The amendment also transposes the rules on the limitation of interest deductions of the Directive and clarifies the principle of proper exercise of the law from 1 January 2019. By doing so, the bill ensures compliance with the directive, in addition to creating the most favourable framework for taxpayers provided for by the directive. The second most important amendment to the corporate tax law is that from 1 January 2019 it will be possible to choose a group of taxable persons, resulting in a reduction in administration and an improvement in competitiveness among the employees. As part of the visual team sport support, it will also be possible to support the operation of sports property from 2019-2020. Finally, the ceiling for the special tax on credit institutions is reduced to 0.2 per cent in line with the EBRD agreement. Dear House, The change in the legal environment affecting the tax procedure also makes it necessary to amend the law on certain rules of international administrative cooperation in relation to tax and other public burdens. The proposed amendment will be made to clarify and complement the provisions of the Act, to ensure the internal legal coherence of the Act and to fulfil our international commitments, in particular to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. The proposed amendments also include an extension to the Annexes to the Act on the Publication of a multilateral agreement between the competent authorities on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts and to the Act on the Publication of a multilateral agreement between the competent authorities on the exchange of reports on a country-by-country basis, with the aim of allowing our country to engage in tax exchange with additional jurisdictions, which will also increase the effectiveness of anti-tax avoidance action. Dear House, The bill before you contains clarification of the rules on the social contribution tax, which will enter into force from 1 January 2019, with a view to bringing into force the same set of rules as those currently in force from 1 January next year. This will also clarify, among other things, the tax liability of foreign persons, the scope of the individual reporting rules, the tax liability of primary producers and the transitional rules. According to the bill, the R &amp; D tax exemption provided for in the Social Contribution Tax Act, which will enter into force from 1 January 2019, will be replaced by a more targeted tax relief under which the company which employs a research and development worker in the employment relationship which results in the tax liability and which is also a research site will benefit from a significant tax relief from the tax imposed on him in respect of that employment. Tax relief is equal to 50 per cent of the tax on labour costs recognised as direct costs for R &amp; D activities, i.e. only half of the tax is payable after the employment of the R &amp; D developer. The new social contribution tax and vocational training contribution allowance, which will enter into force from the beginning of next year, was included in a separate chapter of the bill to facilitate the placement of persons of a protected age to be released from public administration. Under the discount, employers wishing to employ them in the future may benefit from a discount equal to the rate of social contribution tax, up to four times the minimum wage, for workers over 60 years of age who have been made redundant from public administration. Dear Parliament, In order to facilitate the return of pensioners to the labour market, a law has already been adopted in the summer to ensure that, from 1 January 2019, the employment of these categories of persons is free of public burden, in addition to the payment of personal income tax. In order to make it clear to all enforcers, this bill also clarifies the rules applicable to the termination of retirement pensions. Thus, in line with the position that has been taken so far, it becomes clear that a self-employed pensioner who is employed in employment under the Labour Code is still a pensioner who has his/her right, even if his/her pension is suspended and thus is exempted from payment of contributions during that period. So we make it clear that the pensioner's employment is up to 15 per cent. Dear Parliament, Simplification of the accounting rules for the transfer of business results in approximation with international accounting standards, including IFRSs. The current clearing rule provides for the itemised accounting of assets transferred under the transfer of business lines and liabilities assumed. On the other hand, the proposal proposes to account for the balance of the value of the transferred assets and liabilities taken over, the net amount of which is recognised as other income or other expense. The new accounting rule also serves to improve the international competitiveness of domestic businesses, in our opinion. [[16.30]] The amendment of the Audit Act also includes additional procedural rules concerning the termination of the membership of chamber member auditors and the removal of audit firms from the register, and clarifies the scope of the data that the Hungarian Chamber of Auditors is obliged to include in the register of chamber member auditors and audit firms. Finally, it should be pointed out that, by amending the audit rules, we are creating the possibility of amending the mandatory rotation rules for auditors and audit firms in order to ensure greater consistency with the rules of the European Union. On the basis of the proposed amendment, the 10-year rotation rule chosen by a majority of the Member States, made possible by the rules of the Union, should also apply in Hungary. The proposal thus contributes to creating a single EU legislative environment for both public-interest farmers and auditors. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-30-128	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Sándor Hadházy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-10-30-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The proposal for a law relating to EU obligations and amending certain tax laws on the subject of tax administration is an important economic proposal which affects, on the one hand, the clarification of the terms of the declaration on the joint enforcement of the family benefit and the benefit of the first married couple, the inclusion of amendments to the tax liability of personal insurance from 2019 and, on the other hand, the proposal initiates the necessary amendments to the changes to other sectoral legislation. Dear Parliament, The proposal provides for EU law in the corporate tax law, i.e. 12 July 2016 laying down rules against tax avoidance practices directly affecting the functioning of the internal market, in the case of vehicles of categories M1, N2, N2, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N2, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, Pursuant to this Directive, the rules in accordance with this Directive should enter into force by the Member States from 1 January 2019. The amendment concerns three areas, such as the provisions on controlled foreign companies, the provisions on the limitation of interest deductions and the principle of proper exercise of the law. The government also supports the development and objectives of young entrepreneurs and farmers. The proposal also proposes that an entrepreneur studying in a secondary or higher education institution should not be regarded as a full-time taxpayer during the period during which his studies are suspended until he is 25 years of age. The bill initiates the introduction of a new transitional provision in the context of the fact that aid granted to young farmers by tender for the period 2016-2018 is also considered to cover costs and aid for development purposes. As regards the special tax on financial institutions, the bank tax rate for credit institutions is reduced from 0,21% to 0,2 percent, in line with the orientations set out in the previous EBRD agreement. On the basis of the proposal, as in the competitive market, a payment transaction is exempt from the financial transaction charge between the customer account of natural persons held at the Treasury and the customer account used for the distribution of sovereign debt and its payment account with another account manager. The Treasury will provide the payment conditions necessary for the services of the electronic payment and settlement system for the municipalities that joined the ASP system, and the Treasury will be the owner of the EFER clearing account. The proposal exempts this turnover from the transaction fee. In the area of general sales tax, the threshold for the choice of tax exemption is increased from HUF 8 million to HUF 12 million under the bill. The bill sets out a transitional rule for the sale of newly built residential immovable property, given that the transitional period will expire on 31 December 2019 until a rate of 5 per cent is applied. The transitional provision sets out the reduced rate applicable to the sale of new residential property for which construction works are extended. As regards tax administration, it is stipulated that companies operating on a loss-making basis are required to carry out tax control. The start-ups will be given time to optimise their operation and the first four business years will not have to be taken into account when applying the provision. The bill provides for the possibility for the tax authority to terminate its proceedings if the facts were not clarified and no further procedural action is expected. Ladies and gentlemen, One of the key tasks of the government every year is to create and maintain legal harmonisation with individual tax laws both at home and at EU level. I must mention that since 2010, the government has been effectively shaping its tax policy. Next year, five types of taxes will be gone. It is proposed that no one should pay a 75% special tax, credit institution special tax or cultural tax from 2019 onwards. The accident tax and the health contribution will be abolished, the former being included in the insurance tax and the latter in the social contribution tax. One of the most significant reductions for businesses will be the reduction of the social contribution tax by a further 2 percent to 17.5 percent next year. Moreover, this tax rate will be only 11.5 per cent in four years, depending on economic growth. In 2019, administrative obligations for private individuals and paying agents will be further reduced in terms of personal income tax. Next year, the tax authority will also involve the self-employed, which will enable them to fulfil their tax obligations by supplementing and improving the draft declaration prepared by the Office. Retirement workers and employers are also better off next year. In 2019 only 15 per cent of the income of workers under old age pension is subject to personal income tax, i.e. the current pension contribution and the health insurance contribution in kind will be abolished. In addition, an undertaking employed in employment for the benefit of the self-employed old-age pension is exempted from the payment of the social contribution tax and the vocational training contribution. Dear Parliament, Fidesz has always represented a tax policy that has ensured both the reduction of the burden on people and businesses and the maintenance of the fiscal balance. We do not want to change this practice the following year. Please support the motion. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-30-130	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Dániel Z. Carpathian, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group. [[16.40]]
u2018-10-30-131	Mr President, Dear House, Perhaps it is very easy for all my fellow Members to argue about a tax package, because the pro-government representative, the mundér's honor, will find a favourable moment to hold on to, and the one-off opposition representative will find something to do with it. This is the case now, so I do not wish to pretend that this will not be the guiding principle of the next debate, as I also find amazing action plans in this package, which are my blood pressure in the otherwise remotely normal range, if not raised at a dangerous level, but I am sure that it will be thrown out to some extent. I must say, in addition to a government eulogy like what we've heard here, that there is such a pedantic, tight economic policy, an excellent tax system complements all of this. [[For signal:]] Okay. I can see that you're nodding violently, explain to me what the need for mobility housing support as a form is in such an environment. So if there's such a strong background, if there's such a large budget reserve, then why do you have to tamper with such a measure that seems to move a very small mass and amount, so why do you have to touch it? In fact, why it is not possible to expand its scope, why it is not possible to set off for example in the direction that the inactive population in small villages in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County is there... known, a good part of my family is also szabolcsi, so I am relatively well aware of the conditions in which some of the population could be inactive, although it could be active and mobile if, say, in Kisvárdán or in the surrounding cities, there were a dormitory system, a fair vocational training system that met with real market needs, and these people could certainly have additional life opportunities, but this is not the case. I believe that there is a reserve behind both the budget and the macro indicators, and there is room for manoeuvre that could have been set off in this direction. Obviously, behind the deployment of housing support for mobility will be such a justification that it will be transferred to another form of support and transferred somewhere else. The lead-up was already somewhat contradictory here, because if a tax type is merged into another type of tax, it does not cease to exist, but is transformed, so it is obvious that it is worth examining the impact that this burden has on taxable persons, but it is a clear cut for both employees and employers. In any case, housing should be supported to a greater extent, for two reasons. On the one hand, labour shortages have reached tragic proportions not only in certain sectors but also in certain geographical regions, and there is no longer any way to lie down the demographic trends underlying this which are catastrophic. I sincerely appreciate the government's ambitions, which, although purely in terms of financial matters and almost exclusively in terms of taxation, have tried to change demographic conditions. I welcome the improvement in fertility rates, which has evolved from a low point of 1.1-1,2- up to 1.53. My problem is that the base of women of childbearing age is shrinking and shrinking to such a degree that the improvement in the fertility index is not able to compensate for all of this in terms of living births, which is why the tragic situation is that the number of living births has fallen again, and our eclipse has increased again, so that this government has not been able to achieve a systemic shift towards reproduction, and I would like it to be achieved. In order to achieve this, however, this must be treated as a multifactorial problem, it cannot be built on purely family tax relief, as the housing problem cannot be solved solely with CSOK and only with newly built apartments. In the middle of the demographic emergency period, we also need to recognise the housing crisis, the housing disaster, the existence of which makes tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of young Hungarians flee abroad, and bring back to the masses of Hungarian young people the ten, fifteen or twenty years that are now going to acquire a single home. This could be said with a public-based housing programme, but until this is available, Mr State Secretary, within the tax system, we could have motivations that would make young Hungarians, let us say, prosper in the country, and that is precisely the way in which mobility aid is driven against these objectives; not only its introduction, any level of confusion with strange justifications. I have to say that I have also listed the transformation of the entire cafeteria system here, as it was capable of disrupting a system that had previously been suitable for housing support, while in two days plowing in the system of pre-emption for housing purposes, eliminating the reduced VAT rate for new build apartments and restoring the former, brutally high, market distorting key, which is immediately three steps, Mr. Secretary of State, within a year, which sends the message to Hungarian citizens that if you want to obtain the capital for your own home, the source may be easier abroad. I do not want to send such a message, and I do not find this situation funny at all, because I see that many young Hungarians are fluctuating, there are 50-50 percent in favour of emigration, remaining, and perhaps a small step in the eyes of the Secretary of State and fellow Members, such a spoiled justification as that which lies before us can be a very serious factor in a certain decision. I do not want these decisions to be made in bulk in the future. I want anyone who wants to be able to manage here, in their country. Therefore, I can only oppose any level of plowing of the cafeteria system, but since I mentioned and had already taken over the reduction of the flat-rate rate, I am simply confused by the changes made by the government to the VAT system. After all, the fact that a 27 percent key should be used again in the case of the sale of new residential property is good for whom, Mr. Secretary of State? Explain to me who's worth it from a national perspective. Because in the long term, they lose so much positive impact that it simply cannot be good for the budget. The previously frozen and then restarted projects, large construction projects have been carried over, and you believe that their good friends, or, say, the fidesz oligarch, who received a building permit for a residential park after the lifting of a change ban, and then re-enforced a change ban in the same area, so that only he can build, perhaps these projects will run out, Mr. Secretary of State. But the number of newly built real estate transferred is still at an historic low point, the last global economic crisis shows the number of building permits issued, and a permit issued does not always turn into real estate. But the 2008 level didn't even reach the number of construction permits issued in the CSOK record year, and that should sober you up. Such few real estates, newly built flats or even rent apartments may not have been built in previous historical times, and if this continues, then the exchange of property stock will only be possible every 300 years. What would that mean for a panel house in Frog County? Think about it. These are untenable conditions, which is why I say that reaching into the new-built apartments' VAT structure in such an unspeakable way is simply amazing, and I would also like to say that due to the narrow supply, we can prepare for an ever-generated price increase both in the real estate market and in the rent market, as there is a shortage of supply in the rental market. I've told you many times that you couldn't even do anything about the 21st century. Of course, the spill-over of the 100th century, the sharing economy, Airbnb, various social accommodation-sharing sites started to work in Hungary as well, as there is a web here, and how surprisingly, thousands of properties have been removed from the Budapest rental market. You should not be surprised that shrinking supply leads to a clear price explosion, but I am surprised that you are not doing anything about the 130-150 thousand HUF rents. Mr. Secretary. Explain to me how a Hungarian youth, whether a young person in Budapest or in Budapest, manages these rent prices! What message are you sending them, how do you start your life here? You cannot do that, so you do not have such an opportunity to say that this is regulated by the market, and you have nothing to do with this. On the one hand, there is no need to rape market conditions, but you are sitting here to intervene with your responsibility in case of experiencing negative processes. Yes, one would be the regulation of a sharing economy, say, with a flat-rate tax, Mr. Secretary of State, we could support this, where, say, a flat-rate tax on a room or area basis, would be exempted from any other official reservation, so that the XXI. It can also work in the 20th century, but there is also some kind of compensation for Hungary's budget. It's just a solution, I'm open to other kinds, but at least let's have a debate about it. On the other hand, in terms of VAT rates, they should support both the new builders and the expansion of the rental segment within the housing stock and, thirdly, they would be strictly forbidden to touch cafeteria and other motivations. [[16.50]] In this context, I say that although there are some eligible points in this package, and I do not dispute them, but in the most important areas of national strategy, each of them sends out such bad messages that it is not possible to give a vote in favour of it with a good conscience and a calm heart. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-30-132	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to János Harghitai, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2018-10-30-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, During yesterday's immediate questions, I was able to express my opinion that it is important that Hungary has a stable tax system. This stable tax system is a major basis for the revenue side of the budget. We have been pursuing this tax policy for over eight and a half years, since 2010. The set of rules that we now have in front of us is fully in line with the thinking that we have represented so far. This has proved successful so far, believing that from the economic crisis in which the previous government left the country, we have managed to get to where we are now, where we can talk about growth in adopting a budget, which is fundamentally welcome. And obviously the key to all of this is the new type of tax policy that I say we have consistently represented for eight and a half years. When such laws are in front of us, we can always look at what we wanted to do, to give further benefits to Hungarian families, small and medium-sized enterprises, compared to eight and a half years earlier, in different tax areas, as the economic opportunities are increasing. The other goal that we can look at is that it is always justified to reduce bureaucracy and to establish simpler tax rules. When we look at this tax package, we can say again that it is a salad law. I'm glad that this wasn't a criticism. This is once again an example of the fact that such tax law changes could not be negotiated in another type of law, because if we were to negotiate them separately, we would obviously not be able to reach the end of things until Christmas, so it is worth discussing such amendments in a package, in a type of salad law. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] There are many ways to approach such a package of laws. There are many areas of regulation involved, Mr Secretary of State said the most important things. In the logic that I have outlined, which we always aim to set out, what examples we can now provide for tax reductions, and what examples of simplifications I can give, I will follow this logic somewhat, and then I would like to mention the important changes in the tax administration separately. Since there are two things I find difficult to place in this logic, I will consider them separately. One is what Mr Kárpát Z mentioned, the change in relation to the flat tax in 2019, from 5 percent the government raises VAT to 27 percent. I'm not hiding it, I'm one of those people who hoped it wouldn't happen, so we can keep the five percent small VAT on the new housing constructions. The government will no longer be able to do so. But to say that this is some kind of brutal change that the congressman has made here, well, not at all. This was an expected step, since the tax reduction from 27 to 5 percent was initially accepted only for a definite period of time by the Parliament. And if this is not extended by a law, it is evident that the original situation will be restored at the end of this fixed time. The other step is to whip the house savings fund system, not to cancel it, but to transform it, and to say that some negative processes have started here, again I cannot divide it, because the money that we save on the system that we have taken out of state support is being used in the context of family home creation. So once again, it is not about taking something, but using state aid as we think it is more effective. So these were the two items that I would have said wouldn't fit into my logic of thinking, which is why I brought this up. We have read in the news that Fundamenta has already come up with a new construction, which was approved by the National Bank. Thus, there will still be savings in housing, even if the resources provided by the State to date will be used in other areas. Back to what I had planned, and even one other thing that hadn't been the subject of criticism, so that it wouldn't be, I would mention it. We brought our tax package in spring of the year, we amended the tax rules, and now we're touching these rules. A simple demagogue could be used to say, thanks to God on the other side, that they did not make the regulation inaccurate, what the government is doing. It's not that. We know very well that those who have seen such legislation, that it is very difficult to regulate laws on financial matters perfectly, almost never succeed. The good solution is that if there are feedback from the taxable person's side, these corrections will be made and we will not enter into a dispute, which will result in prolonged court proceedings, but will clarify the legislation. So what the legislator is living with here is not a sign of weakness. I welcome the solution of touching it and laying down clarification rules, even for legislation that we have created this spring, and, I tell you, we are not going to run into a long dispute. Obviously, the most beautiful example of tax reductions that can be highlighted here is in the VAT sector, affecting small businesses. Instead of the 8 million so far, they will be able to choose for 12 million HUF, and this will affect 600,000 small entrepreneurs. Obviously, the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian budget, can afford the luxury of giving these discounts to this circle. I think that there will be no luxury, because it will bring additional revenue to the budget if these small entrepreneurs can grow stronger. It is a small amendment, but it is still an amendment, and a relief from the special tax on financial entities. To a very small extent, the upper ceiling is falling. The transaction fee is deleted in several places. I'll give you two examples. I can mention the local governments that get into this so-called ASP system, and the Treasury will be their account manager. These transactions are exempted from certain transaction tax payment obligations. It is more important, and this already affects individuals, and more and more individuals are able to realise their savings in state treasury purchases. In part, private individuals pay for the internal deficit. That's hilarious. In such cases, the cash flows between their investment account held by the Treasury and their other normal accounts will also be transaction-free. This category has not yet been critical, so I'm saying that there should not be any development of sports facilities. Thank God you're making great progress in every aspect of life. It's also a problem, I admit, because we have to run these facilities. As an option, these Tao resources will also be able to be used for operations. It is a small item, but I would mention that there will be small facilitations in the course of the amendment of the tax law in the event of the breach of tax obligations. As far as the tax system is concerned, if you've been employed black and caught by the tax authorities, you're on a negative list. This negative list, of course, is justified if any of the employees have done so and, as long as they have been on this list, have fallen from various grants and tenders. Here, too, there are facilitations. As long as you're on the list, these disadvantages obviously come to you, but if you're off the list, you won't have to suffer these disadvantages for another year, as you've suffered under the rules, but you can get the opportunities you've been taking part in until you've been on this negative list. [[17.00]] There are a number of things that can be said about simplifications, I'll tell you a few. In the case of the rental of private vehicles, the legislator builds a presumption and says that 50 percent of such use, 50 percent such use, and then you have to pay VAT; which, of course, if a given organisation takes on a greater bureaucracy and itemizes these items, this is a rebuttable presumption. So you can choose different, positive rules for him, but I think it's a good thinking that we have here. When using a tax identification mark, individuals may provide for 1 percent of their tax returns. Since 2018, the legislation no longer requires that the tax identification mark be included in that sealed envelope. Some taxpayers thought the same way already in 17 years, so it's a messy situation. Since the budget can afford it, so here too, I think, quite rightly, we now provide that those who did not include their tax identification mark in this closed envelope in 17 do not suffer any disadvantage and reach the 1 percent, the association, the NGO, the church where it was intended. There's a rule of law about the tax system. The investigating authorities, when they do their job, are obviously looking for the tax authorities and asking them for data. So that they don't do this without necks, it's gonna happen under prosecutor's supervision, and only under prosecutor's supervision can they release that information with a prosecutor's license. I also take this as a rational, simplifying step. The Secretary of State has mentioned the simplification of a wide range of workers. So far, he has expected them to record all kinds of data about their own employees, the number of degrees, where they were issued, why they gave it to the person, what qualifications and qualifications he has. These are all data that, I think, have burdened this system unnecessarily so far. This one's going out. And you can continue the line, but I'm going to raise a few questions about the tax administration procedure, which I think is important. Deadlines: when we change legislation, we always strive to ensure that the actors of the public administration, including the tax administration, deal with our affairs as quickly as possible. Yet, there are periods of administration that cannot be counted into the administration. These will now be clarified, if the tax authority requests information from the individual or company within the administrative deadline, by the time he responds, these obviously cannot be part of this settlement deadline, because it would cripple the operation of the tax authority. At the same time, taxatíte now lists the law exactly what these options are, which give you the opportunity to change the deadline for administration. It is important that a taxative list is included in the legislation. We often deal with journalists. Here, clarification concerning journalists is also included in the particular rule that I approve of, since other procedural laws had this option. In the future, tax rules also show that if a journalist wanted to protect his source and the tax authority called him to testify or to provide basic services in a procedure, the journalist could not legally say that, since I was protecting my informant, I would not give him any data. You can do that in the future. I approve of these rules. Due to inaccuracies around spending, the tax authority often loses a court case. For this reason, the law here lays down detailed rules on the order in which the statement of reasons to be drawn up in a tax decision after the operative part should include, inter alia, the publication. Because it is not always the practitioner of authority who is the publisher. These questions will now be corrected by the law. I'm running out of time, so I'm not gonna mention anything else. I think that the bill can be supported with a good heart, because it fits in with the thinking that we have been representing for eight and a half years with regard to such tax rules, to bring rationalizations, facilitations, which reduces tax bureaucracy and, where possible, where conditions are created, to give benefits to families and businesses. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-30-134	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2018-10-30-135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, During today, we have discussed important legislative amendments and legislative packages, and this is also one of the very important amendments. Once again, I have to start by saying that there are some things that bring positive changes, but there are a lot of things in this amendment that we can only join the better Members that cannot be supported. First of all, I would like to respond to Mr Harghitai, who has not been raised by any opposition Member, and not to mention the expansion of Tao support for sports facilities. I don't know, like he said it wouldn't cost the budget that much money. [[Dr. János Harghitai: I don't think so.]] I said maybe that's what he said. I think that we have already spent a great deal of money to build sports facilities and sports halls, and now we see that the budget will provide a specific framework for maintaining it in the current legislative amendment. This may just be my obsession, but let me just say that in 2014 I promised 25 gymnasiums, 25 schools, and we still haven't come to the end. It was promised in 14 and still has not been built a hundred percent of these schools, the gymnasiums have not been built. We are not talking about billionaire gymnasiums and swimming pools, we are talking about everyday physical education sports facilities that, let's say, would replace or help solve the problem that children have not yet solved the condition that everyday physical education can be achieved. And we are not arguing, Congressman, whether children need to move, but we can argue about the order of importance, how many stadiums we have built from state or budgetary resources, from the Hungarian taxpayers' money, and we are now going to finance their maintenance from this, while basically the gymnasiums could not be implemented. The biggest problem here is the priorities. The other, my fellow Member, said that it was not the removal of the housing savings last week, but the transformation of this support system, the form of budget support, that they intend to shift this amount to a much more efficient support system. This budget support will be transferred to the CSOK programme. Let us be clear only then, Mr President: by means of the CSOK programme, which you are communicating, you have been able to support 90,000 families in recent years. It is also not true that this was all a new apartment, because one third of it was a new apartment, one third of it was used by Hungarian families to buy and renovate a flat within the framework of the CSOK programme. The 90,000 families are 3.2 percent of families who have children! If we add couples who live together, say, but want to have children, then we're talking 2.3 percent who could live with this program. While we are talking about more than a million people, family, in the housing savings grant they received 72 thousand forints a year. The house savings were very important because in most cases small - income families who only wanted to renovate a bathroom or build a room next to it were able to use it. [[Dr. János Harghitai: That is the case now.]] But, Congressman, a narrow layer can use the CSOK. We're not saying that it should be stopped, we're saying that it should be modified and that the CSOK program should be made more widely available so that couples can get to the new apartment more easily, because that would be the goal. However, we can say a million times here in the debates that 40,000 new homes should be built every year in Hungary, and we are not even close to this number, not even half of them will be built in the current period. Well, there were years when only 2,000 new homes were built in Hungary. [[17.10]] One of the biggest problems when couples are asked is the housing problem itself. You've been talking to me before, say, about rent. Today, if a young couple want to get an apartment, I told them last week, they're not going to get an apartment with the CSOK. For nine years, you'll have to put down your last penny to buy a 50-square-square-meter apartment; for nine years every naughty piece of iron you bring home; you shouldn't eat, dress, save anything. You know very well that's impossible today. In fact, there are calculations that today a young couple has to save 30 years to possibly get an apartment. Compared to this, this 3 percent, with which the CSOK program was able to reach the Hungarian families, cannot be reported as a success story. The other problem, with this amendment, affects the employment of pensioners in two points; it is more favourable for employers, the vocational training contribution is abolished, and the burden on workers under old age pension is only 15 percent personal income tax. I would like to ask why the government does not deal more with bringing our displaced young people home and reappear here, on the Hungarian labour market, as we have already said several times this day, how Hungarian people were forced to retire, and now they want them to return to the labour market alongside the pension. Meanwhile, if the representatives of the family secretary of state sometimes come in, they say that pensioners are needed because they need to look after grandchildren so that young people can go to work. Then decide what they want: to take care of grandchildren in love, or to work together, or to do everything together; and in the meantime, it would be expected that people would spend their retirement years resting. The tax change affecting another such pension is, however, a reduction in the number of people in the public sector, which has now been announced. What we know now is that we're talking about 6810 people. To add, we do not see that the number of State Secretarys, Deputy State Secretarys, Ministers and Government Envoys would be reduced, which is amazing how the Orbán government has expanded over the eight years, but now it seems to be helping people who have spent 60 years in the public sector to find their place. I would like to receive data from the Secretary of State to show me how people over the age of 55 and 60 are rushing into the labour market. To date, it is almost impossible to find a place of work while we are constantly talking about a shortage of workers. Today it has just appeared that I am a little bit more upset by the news that the largest, in a quote, is happening in Ukraine, more than 5,000 Ukrainian workers are already working in Hungary, while you are constantly scaring the Hungarian population with communication, while 5 thousand Ukrainians are working daily in Hungary. [[Interviews from the Fidesz ranks.]] In essence, give me the answer to whether this downsizing, which is now being planned in the public sector, is supported by an impact assessment; how this will be handled; and I really expect an answer whether State Secretarys, Deputy State Secretarys, Government Envoys will be sent out of these offices in the same proportion as they are being dismantled. If we look at this tax law, the other very serious change, which my better fellow Member has already said, is the release of the reduced flat tax after 19:00. This is also a good indication that the 5-percent flat tax will be abolished. Simply, if you look at the calculations that have been made in this regard, they say that the exact support that you will be able to obtain from families through the CSOK program will be exactly the support that you will be able to absorb from the preferential apartment tax. Even if you use it, you will not be able to receive more money, because you can only make up for the loss if you get enough to use it, which you could basically qualify for with the flat tax. Back to a little bit of the house savings, you forget to keep saying that when a young couple wanted to borrow house loans, although they weren't the only ones who could get the house savings, they counted the house savings as self-reliance. He went to the bank, and that was enough of his savings, and he was able to prove it as a self-esteem. We can now say that this opportunity has been taken away from millions of people. The opportunity is also lost, and here we are not just talking about young people, I told you last week in my keynote speech that a lot of old people also made house savings, because they could use it for exactly insulation and what I've already listed. There will be a huge problem in the construction of the new dwelling, the introduction of a 5-percent discount VAT, and if we keep looking at the analyses on this, there has been a very serious price explosion in Hungary, there is still a price explosion, and in this connection, there will be no rent subsidies, no social housing, no rent support system from the government that will help us solve the brutal rent that we are now seeing not only in Budapest, but also in rural cities. Or we could talk about the situation of students in Budapest when they are forced to go to the apartment and not the students, but the Hungarian families themselves, because their parents will pay for it. Basically, we now see that rooms are being rented for 60 to 100 thousand forints. You can't rent apartments, you can rent a room. They can send horror stories to people now. In fact, now you can rent a bed rather than a room. So we've been asking the government for a solution for years, or even if we say we're going to submit amendments, basically they're sweeping everything off the table. So if we look at just these few problems, we say that even though this tax law contains some positive changes, it cannot be supported. I hope that my fellow Members will continue to talk about the cafeteria system. What you've done with this support system is simply unacceptable. It is unacceptable that professional organisations, trade unions, protested in vain, and even though they said that this form of support could not be removed so drastically, they did not hear it. It's one thing for us politicians to say that we don't think it's right, but here I'm talking about the professional organisations, the trade unions, everyone has asked us to take this out, not to do that, so drastically to abolish the cafeteria system. They did not listen to the words of Hungarian workers, and they continue to insist that this should be abolished. So we cannot support this amendment in any way. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-10-30-136	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr Zsolt Gréczy. Here you go.
u2018-10-30-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Before I get into the essential part of this, there are a few things that need to be clarified. Congressman Harghitai said that there was a failure here in 2010. I would like to point out that in 2008, when Lehman Brothers fell, it was not the responsibility of the Gyurcsány government, it was a global economic event independent of the Gyurcsány government. [[17.20]] So it's a shame to put that in the hands of the Gyurcsány government. And I would like to remind everyone that, before the global crisis, in the summer of 2008, economic growth was over 4 percent, as is the economic growth now above 4 percent, which you are banging on. In the summer of 2008, the Gyurcsány government could also bang its breasts with economic growth above 4 percent. [[There are constant interruptions from the benches of the governing parties.]] And by the way, they also brag about how much wages have grown here over the past few years. Then let's compare the wages of the first Orbán government, the wage experience, let's say, with the wages of 2008-2009, so there must have been the same increase that happened between 2010 and 2017 or 2018. [[Intercoms from the benches of the governing parties.]] So I think it would be worth comparing this to a comparative analysis at some point. These recent amendments to the tax law also fit into a restrictive Orbán package. One part of this austerity Orbán package is paid health, because now there is no such person, Minister Kásler himself, who is talking about paying for health care. It is necessary to decide how much the Hungarian patient citizen is willing to pay. We also know from the Corvinus model that paying education comes with multimillion-dollar tuition fees, and the current tax laws indicate that young generations are not important to you at all. You behave exactly as if your government is your service, your immediate service to your families, and all those who want to live in this country and plan their future are not important at all. The current laws also show that either the introduction of preferential VAT or the introduction of housing aid for mobility purposes, and that it is simply not possible to live in this country. Anyone who's got, like, an apartment is kind of gonna be okay. You can still build a few palaces for yourself, but there is no chance for young Hungarians to get an apartment. There's no rentals built. You can't think of anything about rent subsidies. These rent problems now come up at brutal prices, and you can see that according to surveys, 50 percent of the young Hungarians surveyed are planning to leave the country. You should not be trying to raise income tax from 5 percent to 27 percent, but thinking about how to help these young people get a place to live and perhaps not think about leaving this country. We do not want Skype grandmothers in this country who wave through the computer monitor to the granddaughter who is already born in London, who will not learn Hungarian, but we want Hungarian young people to manage in Hungary, in their own country. We also find the change in the sporttao case a disgrace. It is not enough that this alone is a hotbed of sin, and to this day the Ministry of Man does not, despite an official final decision, give out the data that the Democratic Coalition has otherwise sued about when Tao subsidies are being spent. And now they're gonna decide after they can't find any companies to maintain the stadiums because it's a brutal loss. Every two weeks, about a thousand people go into a ten thousand stadium where they have to light up, water the grass, heat it, cost amazing money to maintain these stadiums, and you now provide for these stadiums to be maintained with Tao money. Hungarian taxpayers' money is not intended to maintain completely useless investments, either in Hungarian sports or in the national economy, with these funds. This is not right at all, and we find it deeply unfair. And let me bring it up here, it wasn't really a big deal, but the cultural Tao case is also included in this salad package, and we know that this is basically not an economic issue, but we are talking about HUF 30 billion. Of course, if you are aware of this as a politician, as an elected Member, you should, by law, press charges, but there is no such thing as filing a complaint, it is just that this kind of tax support will cease, and we do not know for the time being, and I hope that Mr Secretary of State will help us in this matter to ascertain whether cultural Tao subsidies obtained legally this year can be used at all, or are now collected by the government and sealed for an account. Where will these amounts flow to? For the Hungarian culture at all, the amount of the lost cultural tao remains, is it fully preserved, and is it not that some of the cultural figures linked to Fidesz will decide in a smoky room how to make a theatre performance or concert, and thus eliminate, say, alternative theatres, private theatres and programmes of valuable orchestras that may be of international interest. Of course, the Democratic Coalition will not be able to support this package; this will not help Hungarian young people, it will not help them to thrive at home. This is part of the Orbán package, and that is a austerity package. Thank you very much, we don't want any.
u2018-10-30-138	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Dialogue Group is Mr Sándor Burány. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-10-30-139	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, If we have to renegotiate tax laws after spring and, as my fellow Member Harghitai rightly pointed out, this is an excellent opportunity for the government to do the fine-tuning that it needs to do on the basis of social feedback, then the first question that we need to ask immediately about the bill is why it lacks the withdrawal of provisions on cafetheria. You have reduced tens of thousands of workers by abolishing and tightening the old system of cafeteria. Tens of thousands of forints each year were taken out of these people's pockets. There's a country on this. You would think that the last few months were enough to get these voices to you, and that they would withdraw this provision in this proposal. We were disappointed to note that this was not the case. You maintain your position, continue to punish these workers, and still maintain a much stricter cafeteria system, which is a step backwards compared to the previous one. That's my first point. My second point is that, in fact, the government is breaking its earlier promises with this bill. Not the opposition, not the Jobbik, not DK, not the LMP, not the MSZP, not the promises of the Dialogue, but also its own commitments and promises. In the past, the government has undertaken to reduce the employer's wage burden. In 2019 the rate of social contribution tax was calculated at 17.5 and 16 percent respectively. That's what they promised the employers' organisations. I have two comments on this. One of the facts is that this promise has been broken by you, and in this bill it is not a matter of keeping you to the previous agreement. There is only a slight promise that, in the summer of 2019, and then perhaps, if the situation turns out to be something that I do not understand in the first place, that if the situation turns out to be so, because when you talk about your own economic performance, you would think that Hungary is the engine of a Canaan, Europe. When concrete tax plans are drawn up, planned and submitted to Parliament, we find that this is a sick economy, they are constantly cautious, and they also break their own promises. This is all the more serious, because in preparing this plan, we have already indicated that it would be a good thing if they kept their promise to reduce the burden on employers, because this was mentioned in the debate on another tax law in the small business sector earlier today in the House, a serious reduction in taxes and contributions would be necessary, since this sector is subject to heavy wage and contribution costs. [[17 .30]] As a result, this sector, which is very important in terms of overall employment, is in many respects struggling. But it is certain that, in addition to, or even ahead of, employers, the burden of workers should be reduced, because precisely for low-income workers, you have raised the tax on these workers. Nowhere in Europe should low-income workers pay such high personal income tax as in Hungary. The introduction of so-called single-key personal income tax was not a tax reduction for most people, but a tax increase. The lower their income, the more brutal this tax increase was. So much so that, by the way, after the fall in 2010, the value of the net minimum wage reached its 2010 level again in approximately 2016, after 5-6 years of deep flying, which is quite simply shameful that the lowest earners were punished, one kicked at them. But the other news, the other day, is that, in fact, Romania is already ahead of Hungary in terms of the purchasing power of wages. In the case of the minimum wage, this will now apply to the gross nominal minimum wage if the government's proposals are made in Romania and if the Hungarian government does not change its own proposals and plans. But given the purchasing power of the net minimum wage, Romania has already overtaken Hungary, and compared to where these wages started several years ago, this comparison is quite simply shameful for the Hungarian economy and for the Hungarian government's measures. To sum up, in the debate on this bill, we must sadly conclude that you are still unwilling to reduce taxes and contributions for low-income earners, and that is one of Hungary's weak points, it is a shamefully weak point that the tax and contribution burden between the OECD countries and the European Union countries is the highest in Hungary for low-income earners. Similarly to the 27 percent VAT key mentioned, in which, unfortunately, we also ended up in the first place of the podium; although on this podium, quite frankly, it would be better not to be on it, because it is not about merit, it is about disadvantages. So, while we must express disappointment, we must also state that the elements that have been submitted, contrary to the foregoing, which have been omitted from the tax law, are partly contradictory and only an improvement in a very small area. Let's look at the controversial measures. The employment of pensioners will be more favourable as proposed, since in the future, pensioners' employment will be burdened with only 15% of personal income tax. This would be welcome in itself, but we said in the spring tax debate that this coupled with the measure that, in the case of active age groups over 55, these reductions, these benefits, will be abolished, this will have a controversial effect. It is not likely that employment will increase as a result of this tax reduction and the reduction of contributions, but rather as a result that the employment market will be filled with pensioners with more favourable taxation, more favourable taxation in terms of employment, from which workers older than 55 years of age but still below the retirement age will be dismissed, because this will be more economically worthwhile for the employer. This, in addition to providing a more favourable employment opportunity for pensioners, will therefore have a labour market restrictive effect on those age groups who are already at risk, spending their pre-retirement years. It will have a restrictive effect, it will have a very easy restrictive effect, and this has the tragic result that these people will lose their jobs in the very years when it would be the most important for their future pension to establish this pension. So this is a controversial provision, it will be at least as bad for another age group as it is for an active age group over 55 years of age as it is an employment advantage for an already retired age group. Similarly, the provision by which you wish to promote the employment of thousands of civil servants who have lost their jobs as a result of the brutal closure of the public sector is contradictory. As positive as the measure is, if you have already committed to this brutal austerity, your work in the public sector has been lost, unfortunately, there is a similar impact here as in the case of pensioners and those over 55 years of age. As a result, no more jobs will be created, not that employers will be able to hire more tax-friendly colleagues, simply following their own economic interests, in addition to their existing employees, as a result, as a result of the benefits of the contributions. I would therefore like to draw attention here to the fact that although it is an apparent help for a generation on the one hand and a tragic situation for the public sector still working in the public sector on the other hand, the impact of this on the labour market may not be positive at all. In fact, it will probably have no impact, but that is why many people will lose their current jobs in the same businesses where pensioners and those who have been laid off from the public sector will be employed in the future. And in the end, I do not want to hide the fact that there is a positive part of the proposal that has been tabled. This is how we consider that the VAT exemption for the smallest businesses will increase from HUF 8 million to HUF 12 million next year. This is a long-awaited step in the entrepreneurial, small business sector. We express our joy when we see this wish in the bill, it is a positive element, but overall, I must state that there are too few elements of the bill that can be supported and that there are too many elements that cannot be taken back. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-10-30-140	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I give the floor to the Bulgarian ethnic advocate Varga Simeon, who presents the first sentences of his speech in his mother tongue, then translates it and then continues his speech in Hungarian. Here you go, Mr. Speaker. You have the floor.
u2018-10-30-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Уважаеми господин Предсе-дател, Уважаеми Народно Събрание! Позволете ми да ви приздравяот името на Малцинствената комисия в Унгария и involving моето име. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Allow me to welcome you on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary and myself. As the spokesperson requested by the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities, I would like to briefly report that our committee is T/2931, which has been declared a minority item. At its meeting held on 29 October 2018, the draft law on the taxation of certain tax laws relating to EU obligations and amending certain laws on the subject of tax administration was put on the agenda. The committee decided at the meeting with 12 votes in favour, no abstentions and no votes against, to hold a detailed debate on the bill. The bill concerns five paragraphs, mentioning changes and clarifications affecting nationalities. Article 1 § (2), Article 3 of the SAY Law. Paragraph 10 of the Act complements the concept of office and business travel with the travels of individuals holding positions at the organisation holding a special licence, where the minority advocate was also mentioned. 3, the SAY Law 3. Paragraph 10 of the Act complements the concept of office and business travel with the travels of individuals holding positions at the organisation holding a special licence, where the minority advocate was also mentioned. (Sic!) [[17.40]] The 2017 CL on the system of taxation. Article 116 for the amendment of the Act Paragraph 2 of Article 131 of the Act on the Rules of Taxation Paragraph 14 states that, at the request of the tax authority or at the request of a data request, it shall also apply to the designated national authorities in paragraph (j) to the transfer of data to the tax authority in the case of data processing, which is the timely payment or non-payment of outstanding public debt as defined in the law on the rights of nationalities, or to the examination of the presence in the public debt database, including the reason for the deletion from the public debt-free taxpayer database, where that is the case. In carrying out the treasury accounting service to be established on 1 January 2019, accounting documents containing personal or specific data may also be required, which shall be set out in Annex 232. It shall be recorded in paragraph 1. Chapter 69 of the Public Finance Act is inserted as follows: Section 2 of the Act, in which the local government, the local self-government and the budgetary body which they have established may, to the extent necessary for the performance of their duties, consult documents which may include personal or specific information provided to them in the context of the provision of accounting services to the local government, the local self-government and the budgetary body which they establish, by the end of the 8th year following the closure of the accounting year, be treated by the tax authority or by the end of the accounting year. XCIII of 1990 on levies Amendment to Act No 76 In this case, the Regulation explicitly lays down the obligation of the Member States to ensure that the fee for the issue of multilingual forms does not exceed the lower cost of production of that multilingual form or of the authentic instrument accompanied by a multilingual form. The current legislation would result in a general procedural levy payment of HUF 3 000. However, given that the cost of issuing this form is much lower and that the issue of the birth certificate is free of charge, the proposal adds a procedural duty exemption to the issue of multilingual forms, which is a great relief for nationalities. In addition, according to the justification referred to in Annex 1, point 2, the 2011 CCIV on national higher education. Under the rules laid down by law, individuals who have obtained degrees in different doctoral programmes may receive scholarships, and the proposal provides for the exemption of these benefits. It is important to note that national higher education is not only conducted during the day, but also in correspondence or evening, so it would be welcome if these students could receive a scholarship. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, T/2931. The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary has not proposed and proposed an amendment to the individual tax laws relating to EU obligations and to the tax administration of certain laws. Благодаря завашето внимание! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-30-142	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we have two-minute comments. First, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2018-10-30-143	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, Congressman Hargitai has left, although his expo has moved me to ask for a two-minute comment, but for the record, let me say that he had three comments that were worth reflecting on, and perhaps just when it was said, but the rules of the house give me the opportunity to do so. One is that he said that because of the new type of tax policy, the Hungarian economy is growing and that this is actually what is causing economic growth in Hungary. I wanted to remind you that European Union funds are the main reason for the growth of the Hungarian economy [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: In a small part!]] [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: In a small part!]] in the largest part (Dr. Zoltán Kovács: Small part!) Without it, there would be no economic growth in Hungary. I understand the church assembly, the religious department here in Fidesz, how do I put it? He doesn't want to accept the realities, but basically, this happened on the basis of every PMG-GKI joint study ordered by the PM's Office, and they paid a few ten million forints for it, I suppose, and they didn't squander this money. So in Hungarian: without European Union funds there would be no economic growth in Hungary [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács intervenes.]] It would be a setback. The other is that he said that VAT does not mean a brutal increase in the construction industry here. It may not mean a brutal increase for you, as you said for the housing savings banks that this is not a negative process. You have to ask the families that this affects, how they live it. He also said that it was very difficult to write financial laws and that it was fortunate that no one criticized it. All I wanted to say here in the two minutes was that when it came to the socialist government, it was a sign of incompetence, in your opinion; when you cannot draft a normal law, it is a natural consequence of such a law. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your attention.
u2018-10-30-144	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Jobbik Group, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian is next for two minutes. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-30-145	Mr President, Dear House, Today is not the first time that we have heard the madness that state support for any kind of pre-emptive housing support for banks is being said in such a communication panel by my fellow Members. It's amazing nonsense. I'm trying to light it up through an example. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács intervenes.]] For our repeated Fidesz friend, what we're talking about. As far as a CSOK-self is concerned, a lot of people have been able to raise that HUF 3-4-6 million at the end of an housing savings contract, either together, if we are talking about a couple with which they were able to place their share on the table, then they were able to withdraw the support and the preferential loan, and then a newly built apartment and another family nest were created. The fact is, at this moment, without the support of housing savings, what can this young couple do? You can take out a bank loan, and you will be able to secure your share of it, but this bank loan is longer-term or higher-payment-detail than the previous solutions. So the Government of Hungary forces the young party in our example to use the services of the banks in a longer or higher way. Who supports the banks, fellow Members? And we can also talk about the fact that so far, private accounts in the housing register have credited the HUF 72,000 annual grant that we have been discussing, and the budget will then literally transfer this amount to the relevant creditor commercial bank as an interest rate subsidy. In this way, I ask the question again, who do my fellow Members support the banks? It is natural that the Government of Hungary, which has made a deal with them, has proved to be willing to betray even the masses of Hungarian voters in the course of the Bank alliance and in the course of the foreign exchange authentic settlement, in order not to cause further damage to the banks concerned. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Dr. Peter Hoppál: Pathetic!]]
u2018-10-30-146	Thank you very much, Congressman. [[Z. Kárpat Dániel Dr. Hoppál to Peter: Press the button! You can talk, you can't say anything. You're a brave warrior. Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] Do you mind if I take the floor? I guess it's for me, if you're gonna... [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: What are you pathetic about?! Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] ... ifyou're gonna... [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Press the button!]] Congressman... [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] Congressman, sit down, calm down. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: I am completely calm! It's an interrogation from the ruling parties. Z. Carpathian Daniel: Don't explain, press the button! You're a man!]] Ladies and gentlemen, why don't you go outside and calm down and come back outside? We'll continue now. Mr László Hajdu is coming from the DK Group [[Intercoms from the ruling parties. Dániel Z. Carpathian: Do you feel unwell?!]] Two-minute speech. Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpat, stop it, both of you!
u2018-10-30-147	May I continue...? [[Intercoms.]]
u2018-10-30-148	You have the floor, Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-10-30-149	Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Yesterday we argued about the Trade Act, and today we created the law, and CLXIV. The law has been repealed. There it was said that the law on the prohibition of loss-making companies, according to which if they achieved zero and negative results within two years, they were examined and even had consequences. The Secretary of State has now mentioned the same thing again in this law, only with the exception that he did not mention 50 billion, but 60 billion. This would be the pandant of the law which was abolished yesterday, or which was abolished today, that we put it here, and that we did, in some way, play the European Union standard, but did we make another type of law, and in this case it can be regarded as such? That's one of my comments. The second is that if I read it right from the law, then, in the case of auditors, municipal companies were taken out of that certain ten-year-old thing, and the old regulation remained the employment or contract of auditors. Thank you very much. [[17.50]]
u2018-10-30-150	Thank you very much. From the Fidesz Group, Mr Csaba Nagy is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-30-151	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The construction of training schools and sports facilities has been mentioned in the current bill. I regularly tell my socialist fellow Members and the opposition that what they see from Hungary may not be real. Now I've collected that 1523/2015. On the basis of a government decision taken on 31 July 2006 which swimming pools were completed. Derkécskén, Fehérgyarmathon, Room, Tokaj, Sümegen, Putnok, Edelény, Bélapátfalva, Tolna, Gyalon, Csenger, Dunakeszin, Göncön and Sárbugdon prepared for the children, their parents, for the supply. In each school, if you go and see it, you can see it, but they don't usually leave, so I suggest you go and see how these work in a 6-by-ten-metre pool where children can learn basically to move in the water and have a six-foot pool of 25 meters. I would also like to tell you that you have ten executions, you are currently choosing the builders of several, and you are preparing for the school in Veszló. At the first stage, there will be 25 such developments, at the second pace 26, and the following year, in 2019, several billion HUF will be available to continue along with the school development program, the gym and the classroom development program. So I think this is the government that has done the most for our children and sports in recent decades. I hope that the bill in question will also help as many people as possible to play sports in Hungary, because that is the goal. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-10-30-152	Thank you very much, Congressman. There will be regular speeches. Mr Attila Mesterházy will be the first from the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2018-10-30-153	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I would like to begin with the remark that I have just made by my fellow Member, Mr Fidesz. I don't think that's the problem. So when we criticize sports spending, we don't typically criticize the construction of gymnasiums or schools. It's more like... [[Noise from the pro-government benches. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] I, too, have listened with due respect to my fellow Member. Do me a favor, you'll hear me out. I won't be very long. Or I'll speak to him more in punishment. So I think it's okay. [[In response to Dr. Zoltán Kovács' intervention:]] That's because they have a lot of time. I, too, have plenty of time for my fellow Member, Zoltán Kovács, to be able to discuss this as much as possible. In English, I think the school-building program is okay, it's okay to spend resources on gym building. In fact, honestly, I support the possibility of using tao money for operation, because when a sports facility is built, that is the biggest problem. I used to say that when I was overseeing this area, it wasn't about building one, it was about running these facilities for 10 to 20 years after that. This is always more of a problem for the municipality or anyone who has so to say ownership in this regard. So I think the part of the tao change that's about being used for operation is totally fine with me. I would say that we should have asked permission to do so from the very beginning, so that this could work. The bigger problem is that everyday physical education does not fulfill the expectations of it; so do you, if you have children of this age, face it. Not in the form that it is not the right goal for children to exercise as much as possible, but in the form that in many places because of infrastructure problems, children are unable to complete their daily physical education classes under the right conditions. So in Hungarian I say that we should build gymnasiums in Hungary with much stronger dynamics. Not virtually smaller multifunctional halls, but very nice facilities can be created out of 150-200 million. So in Hungarian, for me, it is also the beginning of training for the top sports that students and children in the gyms can learn about the sports in which they may choose them under the right conditions. In English, I say that instead of stadiums, it would be worth spending more money on gymnasiums, or, let's say, building facilities that do not now say gymnasiums that have long-term benefits. For example, Member Lajos Szűcs, who is not far from this subject, is the president of the Tennis Association, spending a lot of billions on tennis courts that were quickly demolished. But there is still no hard court in Hungary where our top athletes, our tennis players, can play tennis. So you can spend the money wisely, and let's keep it less wisely spent. I think the tuition program is totally fine. There are 174 districts in Hungary, so we can be happy if... [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: 197!]] I'm sorry. You know better because you're an expert in local governments. Then there should be 197 places in Hungary where there should be a school, because in a district there is one unit where there are as many children as possible to support, they should have access to such an opportunity. In other words, the problem with sports facilities is that the government spends on an area of unnecessary prestige investment or forced investment where we think less money would be enough. I do not think that empty stadiums would make Hungarian football much better. We can ask what the difference is between Croatian and Hungarian football. Someone told me the difference is that when they go to Croatia to see how the supplies work, how Croatian football works, they take them to supply academies and show them what kind of professional work is done. When they come to Hungary and ask what Hungarian pride is, we show them stadiums. This is a significant difference between the two approaches. So I think it's okay from this point of view. The other thing that's been mentioned, but for a short sentence, let me bring it back to the debate as to why the over-60s are gonna be whisking at it again. If I read this law, as far as I can tell, this 7,000 layoffs in the state sector will most likely affect people over the age of 60. If we're going to take down those who are going to retire anyway, then the question is, why are these tax incentives only available to people over 60 that you set up? It's the people over 60 who probably won't be able to work in multinational companies or elsewhere. I think that they should be better protected than targeted so that they are most affected by dismissal. The other one, mentioned by my fellow Member, Daniel Z. Carpathian, is that again they really do favour the banks. I don't understand exactly why the bank tax should be reduced. All the news, year-end profitability indicators for the banks, the whole banking sector, have been telling us that they've made huge profits every year for years now. So, to reduce the costs, the burdens of a sector whose members are thanking you very much anyway, they are doing well and they are making a profit, so to speak, I don't see much point in it. These resources could, where appropriate, be turned into other socially important issues. The EBRD Treaty, on the basis of which this reduction is to be made, has been mentioned here. I would say that if you are at war with the banks, as you are constantly saying in communication, I would suggest, Mr Secretary of State, that you take the initiative to terminate this EBRD agreement by the government. This EBRD agreement is about the banking sector, in cooperation with the Banking Association, agreeing that banks should not suffer any damage to government measures, so neither their operation nor their profitability will be made more difficult by the Hungarian government. This, of course, leads to the foreign exchange credit problem, to evictions as well, but also leads to what was said, that you seem to be talking on a communication level about how much the banks are opposed to it, but on the other hand, under the suba, a lot of measures are being taken that specifically help the banking sector's profitability and reduce its costs. That's all I wanted to add to the debate. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-10-30-154	Thank you very much, Congressman. László Varga would now be next, but MEP Dániel Z. Kárpát has also applied, so Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát is next to speak again, then there will be a two-minute speech, and so will László Varga. [[18.00]]
u2018-10-30-155	Mr President, Dear House, I'm sure we won't argue about the opportunity to speak, because the government's attempt to reduce the bank tax again is an amazing move on its part that goes against its former rhetoric. We understand that more and more parts of the EBRD pact are coming to light, and we also see what kind of background motivations have moved the government in this regard, but it is quite brutal that an industry with a record profit of hundreds of billions, a profit of between 600 and 700 billion, will not be burdened by the government, so it does not involve or tell it to pay attention, you, a banking system, one of the most brutal account management fees in Europe for customers in Hungary, you practically rip off the entire Hungarian society, and you will end this with such and such conditions, and otherwise take part in public burdens. This is not what the Government of Hungary says, but says that it has made a deal with the EBRD, as it has done with the Banking Association, and further reduces the bank tax in the case of credit institutions. Here, next year, the indicator, which I propose to raise to the previous level, would be reduced to 0.2 percent, so I propose raising it to 0.53%. We must also say that this government is not the first to favour banks achieving record profits, those who, by the way, looted a measurable part of the Hungarian population in the course of foreign exchange lending, because earlier, Mr. State Secretary, the same favor was done when the credit institution's allowance was abolished. They did the banks a third favor when it was found that the stakeholders passed on the banking sector special tax and the Government of Hungary did nothing. They did the banks a fourth favor when the transaction fee was levied; we are talking about an amount of over HUF 200 billion per year only in terms of the transaction fee, a full public housing program would come out of this amount. The transfer of this was also made known by the government and did nothing at the same time, so to this day it continued to pass on this amazing burden to customers and consumers at quarter of a degree. Meanwhile, rhetorically, the government is at war with banks, while we all acknowledge here, in this room, that a healthy national economy requires fair banks that comply with the rules of the game. But the fact is that this is not what we are dealing with here, and we also see that the banks have built a large part of the special taxes into the price of their products or services. This is a relatively easy-to-check market process, since we look at the price changes of a given product or construction, then we look at whether there is a real market process behind the price change or not, and the monitoring system already throws out where and in what segment these installations took place. Finding a similar model in any Western European market is, for some reason, not in Hungary; we will get closer to the answer if we look at what has become of the Hungarian consumer protection as a whole. It has been incorporated into the Hungarian National Bank, and the Hungarian National Bank is famous for its well-managed management of certain issues. Unfortunately, this is also the case with this problem, and it has not been resolved. At the same time, Hungarian businesses should be able to obtain concessions through reducing administrative burdens, putting the Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprise sector in a position, but if the beneficiaries of the Orbán government's economic policy are not Hungarian businesses, but the relevant commercial banks, it would be expected at least that their burden should not be further reduced in an overprivileged environment where they can obtain extra profit from quarter to quarter anyway. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, we look forward to your qualitative and professional response as to why the government is kneeling down to the commercial banks concerned. We'd be honored if you didn't do this in the closet when we can't respond to it anymore, but right now. I call for you to press this button to account for the pact in Hungary [[Interviews from the Fidesz ranks.]] What kind of arrangement is it to continue to pet banks? I can see that there are brave pro-government fellows, and the pep talk is really good, and I've been really good before. If you had the courage to take your profession a little seriously...The voters of Hungary have entrusted you to sit here, so you are not sitting here in a good mood, not because your party alliance has sent you here, but people have voted for you. It would be his job to stand up, to respond substantially to what has been said and to hold a substantive debate. Everyone can talk and show at bar level, my fellow Member. Don't be proud of yourself, because there's nothing to be proud of. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-30-156	Thank you, Congressman. I don't think they have anything to look at each other in this regard. Mr Zoltán Kovács is next for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2018-10-30-157	Don't take this the wrong way, Mr President, honourable Members, I have already pressed a button, I wanted to respond to Attila Mesterházy, I just don't know if the push of the button was too late; that's exactly what Dániel Z. Kárpat called the Members of Parliament today 23 times to press the button, be courageous and the rest. One thing we have to say is that we were brave and we won, and you failed. But that's not what I want to talk about. I would like to talk about the fact that Attila Mesterházy, Veszprém County Representative, now lives in Budapest, but he lived a lot in Veszprém County, he was also a sports secretary, and obviously remembers me, so he says that it is worth using Tao support to operate the swimming pool where Olympic champions were raised and trained, waterballers, swimmers, then, after socialist governance, 30 million of the budget money had to be added, because otherwise this swimming pool should have been closed because there was no money for operation. It's not a stadium, it's a swimming pool where Olympic champions trained. That's one of the things I wanted to say. As regards the stadium reconstruction program, which was completed in 2002, when the Medgyessy government followed, next to the county seat one was built in the second largest city in Pápa, but a track, surrounded by a bleachers and left out of it by a sector, has been called the Medgyessy sector ever since. It's a land puke because that's where the stadium reconstruction stopped, that's the Medgyessy sector. [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] There's one more thing I want... It's like someone else is yelling at me! [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I'd like to tell you that...
u2018-10-30-158	Congressmen! If you do not stop, I will be forced to take out and distribute one of the warnings in the negative procedural category; I do not think I would like that. Go on, Congressman.
u2018-10-30-159	If you'll allow me, Mr. President, I'm over two minutes, but perhaps you'll allow me to do so. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Sure, feel free, make it three minutes!]] I would like to quote the classics, Attila Mesterházy:. Three-four-five UEFA-licences stadium for the country, he said in 2004. There's one today, the Groupama Arena, reporting. You're playing stadiums while one of these was built, but when you were steering, you just said you had to have three or four. Two with the Gun Stadion, that's what I wanted you to know. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-30-160	Thank you very much. Before giving Mr Zsolt Gréczy the opportunity to make a two-minute speech, I would like to inform my fellow Members about the requirement of the house rules to open two-minute speeches after a normal block of opposition. For those who still have the old house rules, or who are genetically dominant in their movements, I recommend reading the new house rules as well. Thank you very much. Congressman Zsolt Gréczy!
u2018-10-30-161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. All I would like to add is that the Democratic Coalition obviously does not want to withdraw money from the willow swimming pool, the willow swimming pool is obviously needed, the children swimming there are also needed, and the athletes swimming there are also needed. Speaking of Veszprém County, the Veszprém Arena was built during the Gyurcsány government, just to give you an example of how much stepdaughters were during the Gyurcsány government during the sport. For example, the Veszprém Arena was built then. I would add that DK is concerned that, for example, in Szombathely, a 14 000 stadium was built in which a thousand spectators sit each game. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: 5,000! The president's ringing the bell.]] Five thousand? There may have been 5 thousand in every home game, but I would like to indicate that the city itself has indicated that there is no company to operate. The same problem in Debrecen, there's 2 grand sitting in a 20,000 stadium. Let's look at the football matches, I'm still watching, and I can see how many people are in these matches. These stadiums cannot be maintained in concrete terms, unfortunately for many of them, I have to say that it will be ruined if you do not govern and this country is finally liberated from the rule of the Orbán government. Then the stadium in Felcsút will have exactly the same fate as the stadium in the village of Ceaușescu: it will be covered with horn, muhar and weeds. Thank you very much. [[18.10]]
u2018-10-30-162	Thank you very much, Congressman. There will be regular speeches. I am speaking to Mr László Varga of the MSZP Group; Mr László Varga, Member of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2018-10-30-163	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President has already done so, but I would like to continue with your comments on the house rules. Yes, Zoltán Kovács said he had already pushed the button, but he couldn't get a word in two minutes. Let me confirm that our faction is, of course, a partner in returning to the old house rule practice and that it is much more often possible to press two minutes in the House. This was the case before 2014, and obviously this put the debate a little longer, but it was possible to respond more quickly and more directly to each other's comments. I think that would be lucky right now. So if you think we need to review the house rules, we're partners in this. I would like to say that what Zsolt Gréczy said is also relevant for several facilities, because there have been a lot of stadium investments in the country, and a very good example of this is Felcsút, which is not justified, because the village has more than twice the population's capacity as this stadium, and there has been a lot of news about what a significant proportion of Tao subsidies are being skipped by the Felcsút club. There may, of course, be opposition statements in this regard that Tao's opportunities to compensate for losses in this way will indeed save such otherwise unjustified investments. But, of course, Attila Mesterházy is right that the replacement of the operating losses of justified sports investments from such sources could have been done earlier. Let me put an end to one more polemic while I'm here for a longer time. How many walks are there in Hungary? Well, 174, obviously, that's what Attila Mesterházy was talking about, right. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: 197.]] Yes, what Congressman Kovács is saying also includes the 23 district offices, so if I want to be fair in this debate, including the 23 metropolitan district offices, which correspond to the district level, but of course walks are in the countryside in this sense, let's just say that both of you are right, and we have pushed this question to the gate, since we are already on sports comparisons. I would also like to say that what inspired my speech in the first place is that many speakers, pro-government and opposition have also spoken a great deal about the 5% tax on housing and its abolition. For which the opposition has repeatedly put this on the table, it is caused by fear of further house-price explosions in the context of several other measures. At the end of 19 the abolition of this is obviously the structural state and the exact terminology of what the 5 percent still applies, and by what point it will no longer mean that the already very high housing prices can continue to increase, which, I think, makes it difficult for a lot of young people who are about to start a family, but for a lot of people, millions in this country. In an environment where you have really plowed the housing register system in a long 24 hours, it is a very serious problem, and I do not see how this story can be replaced. There is a price explosion in Budapest and, by the way, in many large rural cities, while part of the countryside is empty. I could say here from my own county Abaúj region or a large part of North Borsod, where otherwise villages are empty. So what I would like to say is that they are very seriously indebted to this situation with a package that answers these two questions at the same time, and it is that they announce the abolition of the 5-percent reduced VAT and destroy the housing savings system at the same time that they do not put down this alternative, it is a very serious problem, and it makes the situation difficult for many. So I think that the Parliament will have to come forward in the coming weeks with a package that will answer these questions. Mr Harghitai spoke in an interesting way as a pro-government minister about the 5% VAT that inspired me, and it was interesting to see this debate as a notary or a significant part of it. They could also be much more fairer with the processes before 2010, at least in the spirit in which Congressman Harghitai expressed his opinion on the 5% VAT. He said, in fact, that we should be fair, because this is a temporary situation for which the government has seen an opportunity, and you have supported it, and this concerned certain years of your governance, and it has not been before, and it will last until the end of 19:00. You can say that, because of the price explosion, we say that this is a huge problem, but if you expect this fairness from opposition representatives, let me put on the table another interpretation of another area of life. During socialist governments, socialist governments introduced the 13th month pension between 2002 and 2010 and introduced the 13th month salary in the public sector, which had to be phased out due to the global economic crisis. Only during socialist governments were both institutions. You are constantly conducting political attacks on the governments before 2010, on the parties involved in this, and you believe that this is fair. You can't think of both at the same time, that's what I'd like to say. It is not possible to expect at the same time that the opposition does not criticize the fact that after the end of 19 the VAT is being levied on the 5 per cent, and it cannot be assumed that it is okay that although both the 13th month pension and the 13th month salary existed only under socialist governments, you are still acting as if in any way during the administration of Fidesz such a legal institution. It wasn't! People didn't get that chance. Obviously, millions of people had a good choice then both the 13th month's pension and the 13th month's salary, and everyone would have been much happier if the country's economic performance had given them the opportunity to continue to be financed by the then government. But for the record, according to the legislation adopted at the time, it is possible to pay a pension premium today, for example, to pensioners. So, on the whole, I would like to say that, in this respect, we expect you to have fair and fair political statements. In terms of the 5 per cent flat tax, we think that if the world peak goes back from 5 per cent to 27 per cent of the newly built apartments, it will lead to processes in the market that will increase not only the newly built apartments, but also the properties used as a result, and this will create a situation that will make the price of the apartments inexpensive for many millions of Hungarians, and this will deepen the housing crisis in Hungary. We must find a deeper solution to this, and we will obviously be partners, but you will not listen to our proposals. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-10-30-164	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Attila Mesterházy has applied for another speech from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-10-30-165	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Zoltán Kovács said you were brave enough to win, and we failed. Unfortunately, that's true, but winning doesn't mean you can afford anything. Democracy is not about who wins, who takes everything, and everyone else gets out of the country. Democracy is about the fact that there is a minority... [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: Eyeshot, Horse Rush... Interjection in Jobbik's ranks: Armor Car. The president's ringing the bell.]] I could tell you that private aircraft and 12 million hours and Lőrinc Mé-száros, but this is not what we are talking about in the tax laws debate, but we are talking about what is right to spend the resources of taxpayers, and it may not be the recapitalisation of the small railway in Felcsút or Lőrinc Mészáros that is the strongest goal of national policy in Hungary, for sure. [[18.20]] In Hungarian, because they won, they were not authorized to do everything in Hungary by voters. The other, if Zoltán Kovács quotes, which is a great honor, it is worth quoting exactly. The program I was talking about as Secretary of State was a four-pillar program. One was the completion of a stadium reconstruction program, in which there were indeed three or four UEFA licenses stadiums in Hungary. I think that this is the right objective today; that is to say, not 40 stadiums out of 400 billion, but some stadiums that are also suitable for playing international matches. I think we could do better than that, I'm sure. The second point was a gym building program, the third was a school building program, and the fourth was a multifunctional sports hall building pillar of this program called XXI. It was a sport program of the century and the short name of this program was Sport XXI. So what I represented at the time was this in this regard. Another: Zoltán Kovács may have forgotten that the swimming pool in Balatonfüred was an Olympic center during that period, along with the port in Balatonfüred. So this was a separate Olympic centre within the framework of Hungarian sports management, which operated specifically from state resources. I'd like to point out that Tao is also a state source. Just because it is not being paid into the Hungarian budget and it is not being redistributed from there, the Tao is another state resource, in Hungarian: public money, because the tax is released by the state in order to be used for sports or cultural purposes. In Hungarian, in that regard there was a prominent status of the swimming pool of Balatonfűzfő. It was a big swimming pool, an outdated construction at the time, and it was really worth the renovation, and it deserved the renovation. The other thing you said was that the stadium reconstruction program was closed, it's not exactly true. The papal stadium, if I remember correctly, was handed over by me, although they were not very pleased to see me, but it is true that at that time I was the secretary of state who gave up the stadium at that time. What I'm saying is that Pope has the love of soccer, the mayor of Pope, who loves football very much, and he's also practicing. If I may say so, the papals deserve a decent stadium. If I remember correctly, maybe Perutz is the name of the stadium. In this respect, there are places in Hungary where it makes sense to spend significant resources on football, where they have a serious base or historical traditions. I believe that as Secretary of State, one of the decisive representatives of Fidesz can make sure that this sector is not called the Medgyessy sector, but a nice stadium there, since, for example, Minister Seszták and Secretary of State Tállai were able to arrange this in their own settlement. I'm sure you'll be able to do just fine in the next period. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-30-166	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Norbert, Secretary of State, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Izer Norbert: Yes.]] I wish. You have the floor, please.
u2018-10-30-167	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Members, I will try to answer the questions in a timely manner, so I may be a bit distraught, because there will be a congressman I might respond to twice or three times. But I'm trying to tie up all the questions that make me feel like I'm the one they found. First, I would like to respond to the suggestion of Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. The cafeteria system has been raised as an issue, and several Members have suggested that in the current package, the cafeteria system will be executed by the government. Let me make two very important comments. On the one hand, in the course of the spring tax amendments, a decision was taken to transform the cafeteria system. Indeed, technical clarifications have been made in the present package, and the principle has already been decided in the spring. Another very important addition is that the cafeteria system also exists from 1 January. There is such a thing as extra-wage benefits, certain specific benefits, and tax-free benefits. So all three of the elements that the cafeteria system knows to own do exist. The individual frameworks that taxpayers can use can be used in the same amount as from 1 January 2019, so the amount will not decrease, and the tax burden will be lower on an annual average than in 2018. So extra-wage benefits are available with an even more favourable tax burden than this year. The conclusion that the cafeteria system will cease to exist is surprisingly brave. The cafeteria system exists, but it is absolutely true, there are much narrower options to choose from. The government's strong position has always been that the cafeteria system should be kept in a narrow area in order to ensure that the increase in consumption can be enforced. In previous years and in the current system, there is virtually no upper limit to the elements of the cafeteria system. So it is not that 12 or 20 elements can be chosen, but that employers can give an infinite number of choices. I don't think anyone's purpose is to maintain this very complicated system. The other very important message I emphasized in the spring debate is that around 24,000 companies provide cafeteria benefits, and about ten times this, so it is about 250 thousand companies that can give, so they have employment, but they do not take advantage of this option. You can see that there are ten times the number of companies that don't give you cafeteria benefits. And if we look at who these companies are, we see that cafeteria companies employ more people, ten times as much as non-cafe companies, and they can operate with much more wages. So companies that are larger and can reward workers with higher wages can give them the cafeteria. What kind of conclusion did the government draw from this? It is precisely that this very wide and very diverse system of cafetheria, the current system, has practically created a degressive tax system, so that workers in the worst social situation cannot benefit from the benefits of cafeteria. That is why we believe that there is a need for strong simplification and fine-tuning here. Also, Dániel Z. Carpathian mentioned that the tax would cease or be absorbed. It's not the same thing, is it? I would like to clarify that three taxes are completely abolished. So it's not a merger, but three taxes will cease from 1 January, and two additional taxes will not be integrated into another tax type. So we have five less taxes to deal with, three to disappear, and two to blend into two other taxes. I don't think these two are worth mixing. Many questions were also raised, first of all, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát mentioned the question of housing tax. I would also like to emphasise that in 2015 it was decided that this discount would apply for four years. So the claim that it has now been decided, in parallel with the decision on housing funds, that this tax rate will rise back to 27 percent is not going to hold up. This decision was taken in 2015 when the Government accepted to grant this provision for four transitional years. So there's also a slight slip in saying that this is a sudden decision. This is a decision that has been in force for practically four years. The other very important element, which I would like to stress, is that everyone actually benefits from the 5% VAT. We also see the positive effects of the construction sector, which is undisputed. However, we also need to look at those who have received this 5% VAT rate, despite the government's intention to support this goal. Those who bought their second, third, fourth or twelfth real estate for investment purposes also benefited foreigners who bought most of the apartments in downtown. The purpose was not to support these individuals or tax circles with this VAT key. The government is thinking about a much more targeted, family-supporting discount system, the CSOK and the VAT-refund scheme. We believe that there is much more targeted and more effective support on these lines than in the VAT rate. It has also been said in several speeches in Ildikó Bangóné Borbély's, how the prices have changed in the housing market and what a price explosion we can see. Let me stress that the basic economic principle is that prices are typically influenced by demand and supply. Obviously, it is undisputed that tax rates also have a role in pricing, but that is not the primary and not the most impacting measure. Perhaps the best example is the question of the apartment's VAT. We see the rise in housing prices over the past period with a 5% VAT charge on these sales. Thus, the thesis that the low VAT rate induces low prices does not seem to be proven, since the past period has shown that demand and supply are sometimes stronger than the rate of VAT. I think it is worth considering that the basic economic thesis is difficult to disprove. [[18.30]] Also, Dániel Z. Kárpát mentioned whether the taxation of Airbnb and other sharing economy participants might be proposed and that we could not resolve this issue. I would like to point out that we have resolved this issue years ago. So there is flat-rate taxation in his system, and by paying a single item tax of HUF 38 400 per room to the renters, you can pay this tax. In addition, Airbnb is also a good example of being one of the first foreign providers to provide information to the tax authority in the context of an exchange of information on who is otherwise using this service. So I would like to clarify here, too, that it is not Airbnb that has to be taxed, because it only provides an intermediary service; the person who rents his apartment has to be taxed, and the company also provides relatively wide and very favourable opportunities for this. It should be recalled that, for example, just a year ago, we abolished the obligation to pay eho at the expense of the apartment, precisely so that the simplest way to carry on this activity is only to pay for it. I will answer Ildikó Bangóné Borbély's question, although I may not be able to deliver the message personally, but I hope you will read it. It has been said that the employment of pensioners is a little ambivalent, that we want to give them a demographic advantage, and that their support for the labour market is also intended. So, according to him, the government doesn't know which part of this circle to support. I would like to stress that the amendment to the legislation on the basis of which only pensioners should be paid if they take a job with a pension is an option. No one's gonna force pensioners to take this opportunity. But if they do, they can do so with the simplest possible administration and the least taxing. So I don't think this option is pregnant for any pensioner. By the way, considering the activity rate, we see that the Hungarian activity rate among pensioners is lower than the EU level. So we see an opportunity for pensioners to take a job in addition to a pension. International examples of Western Europe show that this is still possible. I would also like to point out that in the new Socho Law, which will enter into force on 1 January, we wish to offer many, higher and more targeted benefits to those who are also in a protected age, i.e. five years before the pension. We can offer other incentives to pensioners, in addition to that, another incentive, namely that the employer who employs workers who are in some way in difficulty in the labour market will receive a Socho discount. I would like to mention here that the benefit of those over 55 has been amended, that this measure has been removed from the Socho Act, but a much stronger, much higher amount of aid has been replaced. Instead of the 100 thousand HUF discount so far, we introduce a minimum wage discount from 1 January. Thus, a higher amount of support may be granted to a worker who may have lost his job and who cannot find a job within a nine-month period for six months. Therefore, if you do not have a six-month employment relationship, the company wishing to employ you is entitled to this socho allowance. I would like to remind Mr Gréczy of the suggestion that he sees a package of austerity in this action plan, that the Hungarian tax policy measures, since I have been working in the Ministry, have been, for two years, virtually speaking, thought only of tax reductions. Where, by the way, there was a tax increase, those taxes on negative externalities were tax increases on excise duty and neta-type issues. In all other cases, only tax reductions have been put on the agenda. Let me refer to the reduction of the GDP rate, the reduction of the socho, the reduction of the tao, and, to be more general, the gradual decline in the tax-to-GDP deduction has been achieved in recent years. We see that we are moving down nicely and gradually in proportion to GDP, so the level of tax deduction is decreasing in Hungary, the rate of tax centralization is gradually falling. And why we may not be able to move even further in this step, why we cannot take even more decisive steps to reduce this tax centralisation rate, is a relatively interesting development: whitening. Let me draw the attention of the fellow Members to the fact that due to the whitening, the government can generate approximately 1-1.5 percent revenue, so that GDP can generate 1-1.5 percent revenue. So, given that we can collect taxes imposed on entrepreneurs and individuals by tax rules, we can collect more tax revenues by 1.5 percent of GDP than in previous years. The reason why this tax centralisation rate cannot be reduced is that we are increasingly able to collect taxes that are normally calculated more effectively and more targeted. Zsolt Gréczy also mentioned that the current bill talks about the transformation of culturetao. I would like to point out that there is no mention in this bill of change of culture support. This is on the government's agenda, but as far as I know, it hasn't been decided yet. Mr Sándor Burány mentioned, although I cannot give him the message personally that the six-year wage agreement was practically broken by the government at his reading. I would like to remind you, Member, that the six-year wage agreement is being followed literally by the government. The condition in the original text of the six-year wage agreement has also been described, and since then we have been subject to the condition that, once the 6 percent real wage increase is achieved, we will be able to introduce this reduced socho key from the second quarter thereafter. This is necessary for a very simple reason. The fact that there is a real wage increase, we can conclude from the availability of HCSO and other statistical data, which obviously results in a few months of slippage in the system, and even legislation needs to be amended afterwards. That is why we have already given ourselves a quarter in order to make this technical amendment to the law when the real wage increase takes place. According to our current calculations, this real wage increase will take place in the first quarter of 2019, so the second quarter is for these statistics to come to light, for it to be clear that the real wage increase has taken place and for the necessary legislative amendment to be made. Therefore, we expect to be able to reduce the social contribution tax from 1 July next year. I think this is literally the same in every respect as in the agreement. Mr Burány also indicated that the party did not believe in the single-key sja or, in general, the single-key tax. I would like to point out here that, over the past period, I think that all our steps have pointed in that direction, and that the performance of the economy has also confirmed that the single-key, proportionate, fair tax system has fulfilled its expectations. Tax revenue collected is constantly increasing, even though tax rates are falling. I think that all expectations have been justified by the fact that it cleans and whitens the economy by having a transparent, simple tax system. There are no lanes that may hinder performance, encourage workers to report themselves with the lower key. I think that all parties involved, both give and taxpayers, have taken a positive view of this simple, transparent, fair tax system. It has also been said in the suggestion made by Mr Burány that minimum wage taxation is negative compared to what has been achieved during their period. I would also like to remind you that this year, however, there is a family tax reduction and an action plan for the protection of jobs, which was not typical in the period before 2010. Let me remind you that more than 900,000 individuals are using the job protection action plan, this is the discount we would like to give to those who are in the most difficult situation in the labour market as of 1 January. In the context of the family tax reduction, let me remind you that in 2010 HUF 12 billion was paid on this item, and this year also HUF 315 billion will be paid for the benefit left to the families. So the discount went up 25 times. I think it's worth considering. It was also said in Mr Burány's speech that the employment of pensioners has a restrictive effect. I think it is also very important to take into account the situation in the labour market that surrounds us about how tight the labour market is. I don't think it's realistic for employers to be able to choose from a lot of labour in such tight labour market conditions. I think that this is not the case, as it was a few years ago, when the minimum wage was raised, that there really was a fear that many people would be put on the street as a result of the increase in the minimum wage. It is now apparent that there is, by the way, a huge demand for labour, so it is not realistic in this situation, I think that pensioners should have any restrictive effect on other employees. [[18.40]] Also jumping back to a later comment by Dániel Z. Kárpát, there is also one, I think, a strong simplification, that this form of house savings will be abolished by modifying the house savings or by amending the rule system. Here too, let me remind you that the state aid leg of the construction will cease. The form of house saving itself works, it exists. If this is a competitive construction on a market basis, then it will obviously last if the banking system has to modify the product, and I think it will certainly do so, as the product has changed in a day or two. I think it is also a strong exaggeration to say that this form of savings will cease. State aid will cease to exist behind it and, as has already been said, from the speech of pro-government representatives, we will use it for other more targeted, more productive advantages. Let me also answer Mr László Hajdu's question, but he will also learn from the reminder that a different level of turnover will indeed be set for loss-making companies. However, the big difference I would like to draw attention to is that while trading companies were only involved in the commercial law, we are sector-neutrally regulated in this current tax package, so that each company is involved. Whoever reaches 60 billion in revenue and still loses, all companies are subject to this tax control. Therefore, this does not apply to companies working or operating in the field of trade. As regards the audit of municipal companies, I would like to indicate that they are not affected by this rotation rule, that municipal companies do not qualify as public-interest companies, so they are not covered by this rule. Member Attila Mesterházy has also indicated, and Dániel Z. Kárpát has repeatedly indicated, in connection with the reduction of the bank tax, what steps the government is taking to put this sector in a further position. Here, too, I would like to remind you that the Hungarian bank tax, if we look at the international outlook, is one of the biggest burdens on the sector. So I think that we are also in favour of the most transparent tax system in Hungary, by the way, but we also need to look at what international system or system of relations we are working on. Before 2015, the Hungarian bank tax was the strongest withdrawal in terms of GDP, perhaps Portugal, or Cyprus, where withdrawal from the banking system was around 0.4 per cent of GDP. In the Hungarian tax system, I think we have withdrawn 0.45 percent of GDP from the sector. So the fact that we are reducing this high level still means that the Hungarian banking system is heavily taxed internationally. And by the way, the fact that the reduction of the bank tax has now been achieved was a legal obligation, so the rate of the bank tax was set for 2018. Since 2019 there was no rate of bank tax named in the law, so we were forced to touch this passage, and on the basis of the EBRD agreement, which obliges us to reduce the rate of tax to reach the international level, we did so by reducing the rate of the bank tax by as little as possible by 0.1 percent, as we looked at the international outlook and saw that this level ensures the approximation of international benchmarkes. I would also like to respond to Mr László Varga's speech, last but not least, that the increase in the VAT rate was also a sudden amendment. I would also like to emphasise here that this decision was made in 2015. He also stressed that this was a relatively rapid measure. I would also like to refer to what has been said earlier, that this has been in law for practically three years, the introduction of this advantage, so I do not think that this was a sudden step. The other point, as Mr László Varga said, is that, in relation to wages, let me stress that real wages have been growing in Hungary for 68 months. So we may have talked about a 13th month pension in the previous period, but the fact that real wages have been growing for 68 months, and at such a rate that this year, in the first eight months, if I remember correctly, there has been a 9 percent real wage increase, I think that not the 13th month, but even the 14th month wages have been received by employees. I think that I have tried to respond to all the technical points and thank you once again for your feedback and for the contributions of Members and ladies. And once again, I ask Members to support this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-30-168	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted on Monday 5 November at 4 p.m. We now have a general debate on the draft law on the publication of the extradition agreement between Hungary and the Kingdom of Thailand until closure. Government referral T/2921. The Parliament's IT network is available to all of us. I now give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-10-30-169	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/2921. The purpose of this bill is to publish the extradition agreement between Hungary and the Kingdom of Thailand. There is no such agreement at the moment, because Thailand is not a party to multilateral international treaties under the auspices of the European Council, in view of which it is possible only by concluding a bilateral treaty to establish a contractual arrangement for extradition. Cooperation on the latter is currently possible on the basis of Thai and Hungarian internal law. In Hungary, the 1996 XXXVIII on international legal assistance in criminal matters. Act gives rise to extradition in the absence of an international treaty. The conclusion of the Convention creates an obligation to extradition between the Kingdom of Thailand and Hungary and clearly regulates the conditions for extradition, thereby facilitating more effective action against international crime. In the Convention, Hungary and the Kingdom of Thailand undertake to issue the wanted persons to each other in the event of an extradition request. In addition, the Convention sets out the scope of extradition offences, the mandatory and reasonable grounds for refusing extradition, the central authorities designated to send and receive extradition requests, the content and the mandatory annexes to the extradition request, and settle cases of surrender to a third State or the conflict of extradition requests. The Convention provides for the application of the principle of speciality, temporary arrest, transfer or deferral of the person, the institution of temporary extradition and transit. The Convention also contains provisions on confiscation and transfer of objects, cost bearing, data protection, relation to other international treaties and dispute resolution. It is necessary to publish the Convention by law, since it is necessary to take a position on issues which also affect the fundamental rights and obligations of citizens. On matters not covered by the Convention, the International Law on Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters, 1996 ( XXXVIII). The provisions of law shall prevail. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In recent years, a large number of criminals have fled to Thailand in Hungary, thus excluding themselves from domestic criminal proceedings. The conclusion of the Convention is primarily in the interests of Hungary, since, in the absence of an extradition agreement, the cooperation of the Thai party cannot be guaranteed. So far, the persons who have fled to Thailand, wanted by Hungarian authorities, have been transferred to Hungary under a foreign police procedure, and therefore the purpose of the convention is to establish a legal framework for extradition between Hungary and the Kingdom of Thailand. The Convention shall enter into force only if the provisions of the Convention are published by the States Parties in accordance with their national law. I therefore call on honourable Members to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-30-170	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Zsolt Csenger-Zalán. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-30-171	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In different areas, individual countries are used to conclude bilateral agreements and bilateral contracts on different topics. There are cultural, economic, taxation, double taxation, or even law enforcement or mutual extradition treaties, as in this case. [[18.50]] The creation of public security is a priority task for all states, since public security has a very strong influence on the daily well-being of citizens, but public security cannot be very imagined without law enforcement and crime prevention, and it is very difficult to achieve law enforcement, but especially crime prevention, if the State cannot guarantee the deterrent effect of the punishment, i.e. if the punishment becomes unenforceable. This reduces the deterrent force at that moment. Of course, with the expansion of mobilisation in the world by globalisation, criminals have also had very serious opportunities. As the Secretary of State has already mentioned Thailand here, but in many other countries, we know very well that criminals, Hungarian criminals, have fled from law enforcement and enforcement, which is why this convention, which was concluded between Hungary and the Kingdom of Thailand, is very important. In total, I would like to highlight only two things from this bill before us; on the one hand, the very detailed regulation and definition of which crimes are subject to extradition. It regulates the procedure in very detail and the transfer of physical evidence, so I wanted to highlight this in any case. The other point is that the contract was concluded just a month ago on 26 September 2018, and I would like to thank the wallet specifically for the fact that it is precisely because it is such an important instrument for preventing crime, it is on the table of the House so quickly, because, as Mr State Secretary said, this article is a condition for this to enter into force. For its part, the Fidesz Group supports the adoption of the bill, and I ask my fellow Members to do so. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-30-172	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr László György Lukács. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-30-173	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We could say that there is nothing to see here, that everyone should go on as we discuss this bill, but I think we should take it a little slower, because this is a very important one, we can say that it is a milestone in the practice of domestic law enforcement or criminal proceedings. It is a matter of concluding an extradition agreement with a king, and of approving and increasing law enforcement, which was an extremely common and popular target for the authorities, persons fleeing or hiding from the law enforcement authorities. In my opinion, Thailand was the place that, if someone had been woken today in Hungary, he would have said in his sleep that Hungarian criminals would have fled there to hide there, in addition to otherwise cheap prices, relatively untraceable and free of public authorities, unfortunately, in many cases successfully from the Hungarian law enforcement authorities. I think that from the past period, we can all tell stories by heart, in cases where, although not based on extradition, we have managed to bring criminals home to Hungary, hundreds of millions of people who have committed crimes and have committed crimes locally. Well, this will be much simpler and easier, so it is obviously simple to say, and we can safely say that Jobbik will support this, because such a convention is very important not only for the integrity of the Hungarian law enforcement authorities, for the good investigation of their work, but also for the successful occurrence of the final phase of criminal proceedings. By the way, with 60 states, Hungary has such an extradition agreement with nearly 60 states, the binding scope of which has been recognised by the parties in relation to each other. We also know that about a thousand people and this is an estimate in Thailand, a good percentage of which may still be someone who was in some way on the run from criminal authorities. So we can safely say and tell them from here, the Hungarian legislature, that the good life that has characterized them so far is over, if it is possible to call it a good life, that one must run for the rest of his life. We can also say that much more is needed. We have seen, for example, that Hungary has still failed to conclude such agreements with Central American states, Belize, Honduras or other countries, and many criminals still choose these targets. It is not so long ago, in my constituency, they also brought Mr. Broker in from Belize, because the local authorities, if all is true, have already captured him because of another crime, but the Hungarian authorities could not move forward in this, because they could not initiate extradition there. In any case, we still have a lot of such agreements to conclude, and I believe that Hungary and the Hungarian legislature have the task and the role of asking the government to conclude these agreements, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, if the government has completed them, as well as the agreement with the current Kingdom of Thailand, we will be able to put this into law as soon as possible, and, if possible, to support the powers of the criminal authorities even more strongly. So I can sum up that, since this is a milestone in domestic law enforcement, Jobbik wholeheartedly supports and asks the government, if there is a way and opportunity to do so, to use diplomatic relations to conclude a similar agreement with as many countries as possible, and to bring as many of these agreements into the legislation as possible, because this is the way to enforce and implement Hungarian laws and thus European laws. So, as I said the third time, Jobbik supports this bill. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-30-174	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Ms Zita Gurmai. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2018-10-30-175	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, We know that the 19th century between the two countries, Hungary and the Kingdom of Thailand. In the 18th century, formal relations were established, and it is a special pleasure that political relations can also be considered to be good. As regards economic relations, we signed a new Economic Cooperation Agreement with Thailand in June 2004 under which the Joint Economic Cooperation Committee held its first meeting in Bangkok on 16 December 2005, but since then it has not been active enough. Our foreign representation's website proudly announces that our exports to Thailand increased by 15.3 percent in 2016 and 1.5 percent in 2017 and 99 million dollars in 2017 respectively. However, there is no answer to why our exports decreased by more than 40 percent from 2012 to 2013, and why the value of $119 million has not been restored to this day. Unfortunately, the crisis in the Thai economy does not explain this, as it started only in 2013, and political demonstrations started in October 2013, which ended in the military takeover in May 2014. We hope that Ambassador Bus New Year's Eve will be able to benefit from his experience as former Secretary of State for Southern Opening and that the number of bilateral economic relations can be more beautiful and progress can also be made in the area of political relations and high-level meetings. There are also some delays in bilateral contractual relations, since between 1984-2004 they were almost continuously concluded, but in the last 14 years only one such agreement, the agreement on education and scientific cooperation, has been reached, all in the previous year. However, this would not have been necessary if the government had not conducted a senseless campaign against CEU and forced all such higher education institutions and foreign governments to take such bureaucratic action. On 26 September 2018, on the margins of the UN General Assembly, a new bilateral agreement was signed, the extradition agreement between Hungary and the Kingdom of Thailand, currently before us. [[19.00]] On the part of the Hungarian party, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, and on the part of the Thai party, the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, signed the international treaty. With the entry into force of the agreement, you will be able to hand over the criminals who are hiding in your territory in a much simpler and faster procedure than is currently the case. According to the proposal, in recent years an increasing number of criminals in Hungary have fled to Thailand, thus excluding themselves from domestic criminal proceedings. However, even the justification for the draft law does not specify how many times this has occurred, i.e. how many criminals have fled from Hungary to Thailand, and what is the period covered by the, in recent years, by the interval. For what crimes have these offenders managed to pull themselves out of criminal proceedings? In how many cases did the perpetrators have to be convicted in their absence? How many perpetrators are expected to be released after the entry into force of the Convention? It is important that the rapporteur responds to these questions even in the general debate. We agree that the conclusion of the Convention is primarily of Hungarian interest, because in the absence of an extradition agreement, the cooperation of the Thai party cannot be guaranteed. In the Convention, Hungary and the Kingdom of Thailand undertake to issue the wanted persons to each other in the event of an extradition request. The Convention sets out extradition offences, the mandatory and reasonable grounds for refusing extradition, the central authorities designated for sending, receiving and other official correspondence, the content of the extradition request, the conditions for temporary extradition, arrest, the transfer of objects found in wanted persons, decisions relating to the extradition request, as well as cost-bearing, data protection and other guarantee rules. Based on the above, I am confident, Mr. Secretary, that I will get an answer. The Hungarian Socialist Party's parliamentary group supports the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-30-176	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I would like to ask my fellow Members if there is anyone else who would like to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Dr. Pál Völner: No.]] He doesn't want to. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposals for amendments can continue to be submitted on Monday 5 November at 4 p.m. We now have a general debate on the bill amending individual laws for consumer protection until closure. The government referral is T/2922. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I now give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-10-30-177	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The decision-makers of the European Union, the Council and the European Parliament adopted in February this year an EU regulation prohibiting traders from distinguishing customers on the basis of their nationality, place of residence or place of establishment, or restricting or boycotting access to their website on a territorial basis when buying online, in order to maximise the potential of the internal market in order to benefit from the European Union's decision-makers, the Council and the European Parliament. In order to prepare for the implementation of this Regulation, the EU legislators have granted nine months to apply the rules contained therein from 3 December 2018 and to establish the national rules necessary for implementation. The general objective of the Regulation is to ensure equal treatment for consumers when buying goods or using services, irrespective of their nationality, where they live or where they are established. The Hungarian Government is committed to protecting the interests of consumers. It is also a good example of this recent action by Ryanair and Wizz Air against discount air carriers on the basis of unfair commercial practices. The reason for creating EU legislation is the often negative practice of traders applying different conditions of access to customers for different reasons. This commercial behaviour can easily deter customers or, where appropriate, make it impossible to buy from a trader in another country within the Union, whether in person or online, via the Internet. To quote a specific practical example, there may be some of you who have faced the fact that they have visited a foreign webshop's foreign language and delivery website, and they have noticed that in that country the selected goods can be purchased at a better price than in the Hungarian webshop of the same company. On ordering, however, the foreign webshop will not allow you to buy that product, but will redirect you to the company's Hungarian webshop. Under EU legislation, the Hungarian consumer will be entitled to purchase from the foreign webshop at the same price and conditions in the future, i.e. if he is a buyer, he can take over the product on the same terms and conditions. Just on the grounds that he is a Hungarian citizen, this will not be denied. The Regulation makes clear in which cases different treatment of buyers cannot be justified, thereby creating legal certainty for participants in commercial transactions within the European Union. In these fixed cases, the tax rate prohibits any discrimination, so the buyer will be entitled to access goods or services under the same conditions as the local customers. It has also been banned that the product successfully selected in the webshop could not be paid by the buyer with its credit card because it was issued in another Member State or because it was a national of another EU country. Once discriminatory options are prohibited, where the trader provides an opportunity for his own national to pay with a certain type of card issued by a certain card issuer, this option must be provided by all buyers. In this respect, it is not possible to distinguish between certain citizens of the European Union according to which Member State the buyer is coming from. Finally, in cases where the buyer assumes the conditions for locals when buying online, may use an electronic service which is not protected by copyright or which uses the service at its actual location, equal treatment must be ensured and no distinction can be made between customers. Ladies and Gentlemen, It is not necessary to adopt detailed domestic legislation by means of regulation of the EU Regulation, since it should be applied in its entirety and directly. In order to implement this Regulation, it is necessary to designate the body responsible for enforcement, the procedure of the determining body and to establish a system of penalties applicable to infringements of the rules of the Regulation. Two laws need to be amended in order to ensure that Hungarian legislation is effective. This is included in the bill submitted to you. The current law on general rules for the taking up and pursuit of service activities regulates the prohibition on discriminatory treatment of users as a general principle, while at the same time giving them the opportunity to be rescued. It is therefore essential to amend the law, since there will be no future possibility of absolution from discriminatory behaviour. When purchasing goods or services, consumers and businesses are often similarly vulnerable because of the infringement of the trader's behaviour. Therefore, the Regulation provides not only for natural persons acting as buyers, but also for undertakings acting as buyers to be protected from discrimination. In view of this, the bill also amends the Consumer Protection Act, extending the concept of consumer to include businesses in the consumer position for the purposes of the regulation. Member States should designate one or more bodies responsible for effective action to ensure compliance with this Regulation. The law contained in the bill on general rules for the taking up and pursuit of service activities has therefore been amended, referring to the fact that in cases covered by the regulation, the authority designated in the Government Decree acts in accordance with the procedural rules laid down in the Consumer Protection Act. Building on the existing Consumer Protection Authority framework, the Pest County Government Office, which is already acting as a consumer protection authority, has been designated as the body responsible for implementing the Regulation, ensuring an effective redress mechanism and a single, customer-friendly procedure. I would ask this House to contribute by voting in favour to Hungary's timely compliance with its obligations of harmonisation of EU law in order to implement the regulation in Hungary, and the effective enforcement mechanism for protecting consumers should be available as soon as possible to facilitate the enforcement of their rights under the regulation. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[19.10]]
u2018-10-30-178	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Sándor Hadházy. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-10-30-179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, T/2922. I have to say about the bill No 2006/2004/EC and the 2017/2394. Regulation No 1 and amending Directive 2009/22/EC (EU) 2018/302. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council also provides for rules on content restriction and other forms of discrimination based on unjustified territorial restrictions on the grounds of the customer's nationality, place of residence or place of establishment within the internal market. These regulations aim to protect consumers from discrimination based on nationality, residence or place of establishment in the cases provided for in the Regulation in respect of online or offline purchases of goods or the use of services. Dear Parliament, Every year more and more people recognize the benefits of online shopping, as we can buy the selected product quickly, comfortably, anywhere and any minute of the day. Accordingly, the online retail trade in Hungary shows a steep rise, with 17 percent more turnover in the first half of 2018 than in the same period of 2017. In 2017, 57 percent of people living in European Union countries purchased goods or services online, but only one in four of them did so from an online store or service provider in another country. Ladies and gentlemen, The rules of the aforementioned regulation protect Hungarian consumers, ensure transparency, and make Hungarian consumers less exposed to possible negative retail practices that allow them to exercise their rights in the internal market. A uniform procedure will be established to ensure that an effective enforcement mechanism is available to customers in the event of any infringement. It is important to note that the Regulation does not result in traders having to sell their goods or services to all players in the single market, and therefore there is no need to change their business model. Unlike general consumer protection legislation, the scope of customers and recipients of services is extended to businesses acting as end-users in addition to natural persons. Pursuant to that Regulation, the authority responsible for enforcement should be designated and the penalties applicable in the event of a breach of the Regulation should be laid down. Furthermore, it should be ensured that consumers receive practical assistance in the event of disputes. The Government's decision will appoint the Pest County Government Office as a consumer protection authority. In addition, the Minister for Innovation and Technology will be designated to provide practical assistance to consumers in disputes arising from the application of the Regulation between the consumer and the trader. Dear Parliament, In view of EU regulation, it is not necessary to adopt detailed rules, but it is necessary to amend the 2009 LXVI on general rules for the taking up and pursuit of service activities in order to comply with this Regulation. and the 1997 CLV on consumer protection. Law No. 1. The Fidesz fraction, of course, supports the bill, since the provisions of this regulation are in the protection of Hungarian consumers, which is why I call on my fellow Members to support the proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-30-180	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-10-30-181	Mr President, Dear House, The regulation before us seeks to deal with territorially based restrictions in cross-border trade, i.e. to lift a prohibition that, in the case of ordering from various foreign portals or websites, we may encounter difficulties for example, so the aim is essentially to be welcomed. Online trade, as such, is a fundamentally eligible formula, as it has cost savings, we can bring benefits to it both from the point of view of the trader and the buyer, so it is very difficult to get involved in the intention behind the proposal, and I do not want to get involved in it. In addition, online trade increases, strengthens conscious customer behaviour, guarantees a new sales platform, say for Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, thus increasing their sales revenue, which can be used for development, wage, and can clearly contribute not only to the expansion of the economy, but in some cases the only way foreign markets can be acquired is in the field of online marketing and online commerce. At the same time, we have to talk about the fact that service providers and webshops often decide to limit their sales area, that is to say, that they are transporting only within a certain region or not to certain countries or regions, because the high transport costs or otherwise specific rules for transport to other countries would increase their prices so much that they are no longer able to supply at marketable prices. We must therefore clearly see that we cannot force the service, let us say, in the case of a Hungarian small enterprise, to all the countries of Europe. Especially if we look at, say, food products or various food supplements, it is worth considering that tax rules differ from country to country, but also consumer protection and product safety, so there is plenty of room for a life situation where 3-4-6-8 countries of the product type can supply, send and send without problems, a Hungarian business, but also, let us say, not to Scandinavia due to the specific rules there. I therefore clearly see the point of deepening in this provision when we take into account other factors, other factors, and, let us say, in terms of consumer protection and product safety standards, even if we do not impose a common European minimum, but we exercise some tolerance against, for example, Hungarian companies that cannot deliver to Europe in a marketable way. With all this in mind, and without questioning the basic intention, I consider this proposal to be eligible, but this is once again an area where we do need to protect non-serious domestic businesses in order not to suffer market disadvantages, but, where appropriate, to open up the door to exit to the world market. At the same time, I would like to say that this gate can only be reached through online marketing and online trading very often, which is why I would like to encourage Hungarian businesses to do so. If this proposal can give us a little boost, a tiny motivation, or help us do so, then of course we can support it. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-30-182	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr András Aradski. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-10-30-183	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I feel a little bit delayed in relation to the submitted bill, let us say not to the professional material submitted to the Hungarian legislature, but to the fact that the European Union's legislation that has launched the Hungarian legislative thinking and the submission of the bill at all is a fundamental point in the European Union, and, by the way, the Commission, but Parliament itself, has been working to complete this direction over the past years, even in cases that are unreasonable, or which are technically unsolvable by the nature of the service or the product, both market players and consumers. [[19.20]] On the other hand, this regulation, which is before us, which we are discussing in Hungarian legislation, is this year's regulation, a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, on a matter the applicability of which is not affected by the obstacles that I mentioned earlier that the nature of the service or the nature of the product or the protection of consumers would have prevented previous regulation. That is why I have an uneven feeling that in such an area as the area of supply of products, EU legislation is now being put in place to say that any discrimination against customers on grounds of nationality, place of establishment or place of residence is prohibited. I think that this is a bit of a late regulation, because in the last ten years there has been a significant gain in both European trade and online trading. Nevertheless, in the trade practice that has been in force so far, the discrimination effect has been achieved. This is, of course, not debatable or abnormal on the part of the service providers, because otherwise they only comply with the provisions currently laid down in the regulation if it is enforced by the regulation. The direction of regulation itself is positive, even if it is delayed, and ensures that Hungarian consumers are less exposed to the possible negative commercial habits and practices, practices that have occasionally occurred. I must add that the direction of regulation is moderate, because it does not force or force it to change the behaviour and business policy of market participants, but, in addition to an identical business policy, it offers the same opportunity for consumers to access the service. I believe that the submitted bill, which serves to comply with EU legislation, is sufficiently moderate and has a sufficient degree of restraint in the fact that it will not repeat the European Union legislation once again, because its application is mandatory and its scope extends directly to Hungarian legislation. I think that is proportionality, which is T/2922. This makes clear the applicability of the aim of European Union legislation in Hungary as well, sets out the conditions that the Commission and Parliament have required the authority responsible for implementation to be designated and includes in the Hungarian legislation, the 2009 LXXVI on the taking up and pursuit of service activities. By amending law, undertakings which may be included as end-users in this commercial constellation, in a system. I therefore hope, in addition to all of this, that by adopting the regulation, Hungarian businesses will also have a competitive position and, perhaps, a better competitive position than before. Although I have to add that the solution and problem of logistics and other warranty needs can continue to legally and rationally limit these commercial activities, the Hungarian companies will hopefully be able to benefit from this regulation by using Hungarian creativity to increase their revenues and profits. To sum up all this, the adoption of the bill will be supported by the Christian Democratic People's Party. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-30-184	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the group of the MSZP is Mr László Varga, notary of the Parliament.
u2018-10-30-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Perhaps it is not brave for me to assume that this proposal will not be the biggest debate in this House today. There has been, and there will be, a greater debate on the proposal today, I presume. The proposal to get right into the middle of it will be supported by our faction during the vote, and I can still support it. There are basically two reasons for this. One is that we usually support proposals for harmonisation, and I always say that. Let me express some joy in the fact that at such times it usually follows that we do not understand why it was not brought in in in time. Now we are about time, it is true that the prescribed nine-month deadline is close, but otherwise in time, so this is an exceptional moment, let us also remember this, if we are used to the criticisms in this, let me say this as well. Therefore, the proposal for harmonisation is a common endeavour at last in the European Union, and progress has been made to ensure that no discrimination can be made on the grounds of the customer's nationality, place of residence or place of establishment. Besides, and this is the second reason I would like to introduce here the MSZP faction will support any proposal, whether in the framework of the implementation of the European Union's objective or in the framework of domestic legislative processes, which will serve the fulfilment of consumer protection rights in Hungary. We believe that any such proposal is important and in the interests of consumers. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-10-30-186	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr Gergely Arató. Here you go.
u2018-10-30-187	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I'm not going to the 19th. I would like to extend back to the 20th century in my comment, not even because it would not be particularly justified in the case of online trading, but I would like to say in particular that we support this proposal ourselves. This is an EU legislative act, the necessary transposition into Hungarian law and the necessary legislative changes, which, in our view, serve the purpose of achieving better the benefits that the European Union also offers to Hungarian citizens as citizens of the Union, so that the kind of equality of rights it provides to all citizens of the European Union can be achieved in this area. This is typically an area where there is a need for European regulation, because a large part of this type of trade is cross-border, and they think that experts say that this would be a much higher proportion in this trade if it were an area with more reassuring, predictable rules, and we will therefore support this proposal. To the comments of Mr Aradski, who thinks this EU regulation is too late, I would like to add that I hope that my fellow Members on the government side will also support the adoption of regulations as early as possible when it comes to the Hungarian consumer protection rules, the issues that make our countrymen's lives miserable in the area of consumer protection, from why it is not possible to obtain adequate information with certain airlines, or why it is not possible to obtain adequate complaint handling, to the point where service accounts are not transparent, or in the area of telecommunications, which is also a modern area, why the rules on providing services are not properly applied and how to move forward more effectively in these areas. What I would therefore like to say is that if consumer protection is important to the government and the government side, then do not wait for the next Brussels regulation, but also deal with how to improve consumer protection rules from your own wellhead. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Dr. Laszlo Varga applauds.]]
u2018-10-30-188	Thank you very much, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted on Monday 5 November at 4 p.m. Next up is the 2010 CXXX on legislation. General debate on the draft law amending the Law on the Seventh Amendment to the Fundamental Law until closure. The government referral is T/2939. Number 2 is available for all of us on the network. I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[19.30]]
u2018-10-30-189	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, On 20 June 2018, the Parliament adopted the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law, which also covered Article 28 of the Fundamental Law. Article 28 of the Fundamental Law, as amended by the entry into force of 1 January 2019, provides binding guidance on the interpretation of the law of courts and, indirectly, of other public authorities. According to the amendment, the purpose of the legislation should be to take into account, in particular, the preamble to the legislation or the justification for the proposal to create or amend the legislation. It is still true that, in addition to certain methods of interpretation of the law, in particular grammatical, logical, taxonomic and historical interpretation, the so-called telelogic interpretation method is not exclusive, but it has a privileged role under the Fundamental Law. The amendment of the Fundamental Law made it clear in this context that, if the legislator makes use of the means of interpretation by purpose, the justification for the proposed legislation could be a credible source of the legislative objective. In order to make the purpose of a legislation as easily known as possible in practice, it is necessary to ensure that the explanations are made available to the public. They are still largely accessible to law-seeking citizens and practitioners. In the future, systematic, institutionalised and regulated publication of explanations is also essential to facilitate effective enforcement. In itself, the examination of the explanations cannot be considered as the sole method of interpretation of the law by purpose. In addition to the published justifications, the arguments of the adoption of the legislation, the achievements of the historic constitution or the results of the law will continue to be used. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The main objective of the bill to amend the law on legislation is to establish a legal framework for the publicity of the explanations of draft legislation, in line with the new rules of the Fundamental Law described earlier. To this end, in addition to the existing obligation to provide explanations, it is also stipulated by law that the explanations should be made publicly available. The explanatory notes will be published in the explanatory notes to the Hungarian Gazette, and will be available on the Internet in the National Legislative. The bill states that, of course, the justification for the draft legislation cannot have binding force after its publication. It also states that, when interpreting the legislation, the part of the explanatory statement of the draft legislation which is contrary to the legislative text should be disregarded. In order to minimise the possibility of such derogations or other errors in the preparation of legislation, professional control will be exercised by the Minister of Justice. Detailed rules on disclosure will also be laid down by the Minister of Justice's decree and may include exceptions to disclosure where necessary. The possible exceptions are justified by the fact that, in particular, in the case of government regulations, ministerial decrees or municipal decrees, they are not expected to be interpreted in court because of their technical or enforcement nature. The significant social, economic, budgetary impact, environmental and health consequences of these legislation and its impact on administrative burdens are typically not detectable. These circumstances make disclosure in the Tamás for reasons unnecessary and unintelligent. An additional exception is the explanatory memorandum to the draft budget and closure accounts. Given the specific nature of these laws, the wording of their explanations which would be suitable for publication would be particularly burdensome. They should be made public in different ways. The reasons for government regulations and ministerial decrees issued for social consultation should continue to be published without exception in the course of social consultation. A further objective of the bill to amend the law on legislation is to further develop existing rules for deregulation activities, which can basically be divided into two major parts, technical and substantive deregulation. Technical deregulation does not change the norm of the legislation; only the laws and regulations implemented will be repealed, i.e. the number and extent of the legislation will be reduced. On the other hand, the content deregulation aims to reduce the actual norm, such as the substantial reduction of administrative burdens, and to simplify the operation of the public sector. Content deregulation is, in principle, an activity dependent on policy issues, typically driven by sectoral policy objectives, which often means not only deregulation but also the creation of new rules. Thus, content deregulation is not only a mechanical norm reduction, but also a new concept of rearranging, re-regulation or even leaving the living conditions affected by the provisions in force. According to previous practice, the scheduled technical and content deregulation was implemented through deregulation programmes in the legislative preparation exercise. A number of legislation, public-law body regulation instruments, have been technically deregulationd and revised in substance. The bill also provides for the development of provisions to ensure automatic deregulation in order to trigger programmed technical deregulation. This will also allow automatic deregulation of provisions which enter into force with different text or additions and provisions which do not enter into force. The proposal seeks to complete automation in order to ensure that the legislation implemented, which does not contain normative provisions, is also repealed by law. In order to promote content deregulation, the bill also aims, on a preventive basis, to focus on pre-legislative activities in order to achieve deregulation and rationalising efforts. In accordance with constitutional requirements developed in the practice of the Constitutional Court, it appears to the legislator as a clear and solid minimum requirement that there is no constitutional possibility of creating a provision for a direct and substantial limitation of fundamental rights below the legal source level. The additional requirements of the rule of law on fundamental rights are, of course, not overruled or undermined by this provision. The proposal requires that only standards which lay down a generally binding code of conduct should be included in the legislation. It aims at preparing legislation so that the level of abstraction of regulation is high: legislative responses to specific problems usually generate new, often multiple, legislation. The bill provides guidance to the pre-legislative body in order to bring down the level of legislation as far as possible. Legislation overrated from the point of view of the source level is a barrier to sufficiently flexible legislation adapted to changing circumstances. The aim is to ensure that laws contain only provisions which absolutely require legislation. The proposal sets out in principle that legislative provisions of a declarative nature, without normative content, should not be taken into account in the preparation of legislation or, if such provisions are in force, should be repealed by the preparation of legislation. The introduction of a legal institution for the so-called paragraph brake is also aimed at achieving content deregulation efforts and reducing the overregulation of the legal system. One of the most important indicators of modern and efficient public operation is to burden the public and businesses with administrative obligations only in the most necessary cases. In this spirit, the bill requires pre-legals to propose, if they wish to introduce a new administrative obligation, a new obligation to pay or otherwise a new obligation to increase the costs of recipients of the legislation, that they should also propose, where possible, to remove or reduce in proportion such an existing obligation. In conclusion, the technical amendments or technical clarifications of the bill, which are closely linked to changes in the content of the bill, ensure the elimination of the problems in the application of the law and the coherence of the law on legislation. I ask this House to contribute with its vote in favour to the vote on the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-30-190	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mrs Czunyinné Dr. Judit Bertalan. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-10-30-191	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, The T/2939 in front of us. Legislative bill No. 1 concerns the amendment of the law on legislation 2010. In his expo, Mr State Secretary explained in detail the legislative objective, the objectives of the amendment, and the two-pillar proposal which lies in detail before us. [[19.40]] The first and important point to be made, in addition to the intention to make a detailed amendment by the Secretary of State, is that there is now a bill before this House which laid down a legislative system that was adopted in 2010 and adapted to the new legislative and changed living conditions, obviously amendments to help the legislative work and, most importantly, to help the enforcement work will be made in this bill. One of these substantive changes and amendments is the obligation of Article 28 to make public the preamble to the legislation and the grounds for the legislative proposals, as well as the detailed rules thereof, as well as the requirement that the courts and other public authorities, in the interpretation of the law, should take as binding and binding guidance the relevant part of the legislative proposals and the preamble. I think that this will help both the law enforcement work and the interpretation of the law work. This amendment of the basic law was also the primary purpose. We can clearly see that the obligation to transfer under the Fundamental Law lies not only with the establishment of regulation relating to disclosure, but also with a sufficient degree of detail in the relevant bill. What is also important, and perhaps the second pillar of the proposals for amendments, is very important, and I think that since 2010, it is a government-led endeavour to deregulation both in the creation of legislation and in the application of legislation. We have heard in the author's expozee that both technical and content deregulation legislative amendments, which facilitate, assist and practically assist its implementation, are now being introduced by this bill in the legislative act. A few words about this, if you will allow me, are worth mentioning in detail. One of them is technical deregulation. The Secretary of State highlighted some of the principles and practices of such technical deregulation in his expozee. I think that the amount of legislation and legislation that has been created in recent decades, and that which has only been reduced by deregulation administrative bureaucracy in recent years, the reduction of state bureaucracy in the preparation of legislation, the examination of coherence with the various legislations, the existence of empty skeletal legislation, the management of references is about to be simplified and, indeed, it will not only make it easier for the law-abiding but also for the legislator. The procedure for this is dealt with in the bill before us. I think this is an incredible relief for those who are involved in the drafting of legislation or in the drafting of legislation in any ministry or in any administrative body, and who particularly help the application. Another important issue is substantive and substantive deregulation. I think that if it is important, in substance and in terms of the consequences of the legislation, that the legislation that is appropriate for citizens should be drawn up and put into effect as much as possible, then I think that not only deregulation levels and not only the comprehensibleness of the texts, but also that there should not be a circumstance regulating a life situation that makes its interpretation and application more difficult. And it is necessary not only to deregulation of laws in numbers and in scope, but indeed to deregulation of legislation in terms of content or substance, which the government has launched in several areas. The framework for this, the procedure for this and the way it is done are set out in the bill before us. It is clear that after the entry into force of the law of 2010, it will also lay down rules and clarifications that are necessary to enable the legislative objectives set out in that law to be achieved, and that both the legislator and the legislator will be able to call on and apply it in the future. These were the most important and the regulatory circumstances in the amendment which, I think, are important for us to look at the functioning of the legislation at times in practice. In the legislative bill before us, the government now states that, in the course of legislation and the application of the law, because of the clarification of legislation and the legislative intention, the publication of the grounds for the laws and legislative proposals, public authority and judicial work help to implement the work, and, on the other hand, by means of substantive and technical deregulation, it does not only provide legal aid, not only to legislators, but also to mitigate the application of general law. In turn, content deregulation serves transparency and predictability, namely legal certainty, with this amendment of the legislative law. Dear Parliament, In the light of the detailed amendments made in the author's exposé, I would like to ask this House to support the bill before us, by highlighting the main objectives of the amendment that I have highlighted. The Fidesz fraction is the government T/2939. It supports its bill No 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-10-30-192	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Gábor Staudt. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-10-30-193	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, I am trying to be brief with regard to the late hour, and if I look around, unfortunately, I do not think that I will discover a large number of my fellow Members, but it is an important proposal, which lies before us. My first thought was that every piece of legislation is worth as much of it as it is being observed. Mr. Secretary, it's a fact that very nice and forward-looking things are written here. The question will be whether the Hungarian Parliament and the government will succeed in complying with this, and therefore these good goals can be achieved in practice. It's what's gonna stand on, or it's gonna go down. Unfortunately, the past period, or I can now say that the experience of two cycles, does not always support the fact that the proposals came to Parliament in this form, they were adopted in this form, but we are confident that this will change in the future, and with a turn we will see a significant turn in the attitude of the government and the pro-government representatives with regard to legislation. I would like to highlight a few points that I would like to underline. For example, as an evidence, it was included in the proposal to include only rules which lay down general mandatory rules of conduct. Again, it's what everyone, every lawyer, nods that they do, but we haven't always experienced it in the last two cycles. In addition, it is added that legislative responses to specific problems generally generate new legislation. I would add that, unfortunately, we have also seen a number of legislations in the last two cycles, so it was possible to discern which of them was usually written for a pro-government Member, a state leader, a prospective candidate, and then, by the way, they were confirmed. It is enough to think that he will be here next week, even if not before the Parliament, but in the Ministry of Justice next week there will be negotiations on administrative courts. Mr. Secretary, there was a proposal here to see if András Patyi would be the one who was looking forward to this position. Or even the Secretary of State didn't know that this was the case, but since then we have seen that András Patyi has resigned from his standing, that he could be re-elected as a judge, in connection with the amendment of the law that you said was only a technical suggestion that he didn't actually affect any person, and thus neither did András Patyi's appointment. [[19.50]] It seems that life will disprove this, and András Patyi will also run to appoint him, to be chosen by the two-thirds holding the head of the new administrative courts. Why this will not use the independence of justice, to put it nicely, I will address that. So here too, unfortunately, the practice was different. The aim is to ensure that laws contain only provisions which absolutely require legislation. We could say it's okay again. But how many times has it been that if you'd gone up one level now, you'd have written into the Fundamental Law things that weren't supposed to be there, or you'd have passed laws on things that might have been arranged elsewhere. I also have to say that the last two cycles were almost record in terms of the declarative, non-normative decisions and other legislation adopted by Parliament. I did not make a comparison, but I think it can be concluded that, after the change of regime, there were not as many declarative acts as those adopted during the Fidesz Regency after 2010. The point is that it is stressed that only if, and only if, it cannot be created in another way, I must be honest, the description of this too often affects me a little bit towards a kind of regulatory governance. And then we'll see in the future if that's how it's gonna be, but somehow I had the feeling that when I read these things, the goal might be to get a little more legal society and the opposition to want less legislation, and under the guise of it, more regulations or more authorizations could be made. We also know that this is not in favour of the public or the parliamentary debates. It was interesting to read, and I would like to draw your attention to this, which would again not be too much of a point in itself, that Parliament could bring to itself any powers and powers which it had previously installed on the government, ministers or anyone else. This seems to be a pretty clear and clear speech, and it will be described here, too, only then will I ask what is going on with the fact that the National Election Committee will be given the name of András Patyi again, and not in professional heights to the House again, when I say this in many cases he has rejected the referendum initiatives by saying that in that particular subject matter a referendum cannot be issued because it is not within the competence of Parliament, but rather, let us say, a minister or government in the power of regulation. This is absurd also on the basis of the material described here, because the Parliament may have its own jurisdiction over the right to create ministerial or government decrees, to bring them into law, to take them away, to give them back. The powers of the Parliament are unlimited in this form. But then a referendum could also be set out in the powers already installed at the level of government decrees and regulations. This could not undermine the scope of the referendum, the right to a referendum; but the practice is to weaken it. We hope that in the future, even if this proposal is adopted, there will be a change. I trust that the Constitutional Court, as well as the Election Committee, will be more frequent when assessing these decisions on referendum issues. Once again, the legal institution of the paragraph brake is something that can be welcomed. If new administrative obligations, new payment obligations or other costs It's prescribed in a law, so that's at least what it's supposed to be. Once again, I will be very curious, as it is a lex imperfecta, so it must be a endeavour or a kind of guidance, but it does not impose an obligation on the legislator and the government to comply with it in any case. Again, it's a nicely ringing pass, but the practice will show you what goes into the law of Parliament and the government. The table of explanations was introduced in the Fundamental Law not too long ago. We have already said so, we do not yet see exactly how this will be implemented. We didn't get much smarter here, just to say that a few crumbs were still in our laps, running through this law. But the manner in which and how the Minister of Justice will establish these explanations in a regulation and in what context they will need to be published, and in this way they will be guided in judicial and other legal applications, is still the music of the future. If you are aware of this, you can certainly share it with us, even in the closing word. I'll be very curious to see what outcome this will produce. It is the task of the preparatory of the legislation to define in the explanatory statement what it is intended to publish and present in the explanatory memorandum. Of course, I would add that we do not see the extent to which this will limit or limit the Minister of Justice. And we have also seen that there have already been impact assessments and various provisions regarding, for example, what kind of social debate needs to be held or how to prepare legislation. This has often been bypassed by the fact that, not in some cases, serious proposals have been put forward by individual representatives, but perhaps not by codes, but we might even find an example of this, and in this case, they usually asked themselves why we resent this, when it is quite clear that the proposal was not written by the individual Member, but was prepared in one of the ministries. I'd like to take another step out of the 2nd. In addition to the provisions I underlined paragraph 8 because it is also a passage that is absolutely clear that if a person is authorised to produce a regulation, he is obliged to establish that regulation. This is not only a proposal or an opportunity for creation, but also an obligation to create it. This is also important because a few years ago, we may have had a legal dispute here with András Tállai that when the government was authorised to make a regulation on a particular subject and did not do so, he did not create it, then he said that it was not an obligation, but an opportunity to create the regulation. I'm glad that time and the Justice Department co-difficators confirmed that I was right. It would have been better if this had already become clear to other ministries. That's what I wanted to highlight. In the end, I would stress that the test of pudding will be to eat, and if the government and the representatives, especially the pro-government representatives, follow these principles, then obviously better prepared and better-quality legislation will be created. I hope that legislation which does not have practical sanctions will not in many cases be circumvented. This will come out in the future. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-30-194	Thank you very much, Congressman. I thank my fellow Members for their cooperation. I give the floor to Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of KDNP, by handing the chair over to Tamás Sneider, my vice president. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] [[20.00]]
u2018-10-30-195	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of the outcome of the 2016 Autumn quota referendum, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán submitted to Parliament the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law, validating the will of the Hungarian people. The new unity created by the referendum, the consensual will of Hungary, which, by more than 98 percent, clearly stated that there should be no forced resettlement into our country. The Hungarians, feeling their responsibility for the nation's future, have never voted so uniformly since the change of regime. [[Gergely Harvesto: This is another speech.]] It is not another speech, my fellow Member, because it is a bill on legislation relating to the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law. Therefore, the Hungarians' will must be kept in mind at home and abroad, even the Triumvirate of Brussels-Strasbourg-Soros. The main purpose of the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law was to prevent the compulsory group resettlement of migrants into Hungary in order to protect the sovereignty of our country. The seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law clearly states the message of the referendum, i.e. categorically forbids the resettlement of a foreign population from Brussels to be ordered. Furthermore, the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law makes it clear that Hungary's constitutional identity is not limited and that the inalienable right to dispose of territorial unity and population arising from sovereignty cannot be called into question. Ladies and Gentlemen, On 20 June 2018, the Parliament adopted the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law. It is a separate historical justice that by October 2018, the untenable and unacceptable Merkel-Gauck position failed. In other words, the German central position has failed that the problem is not the German mainstream political elite, but the people who do not accept the Wir schaffen das. Merkel is no longer running for chancellor, party president, or congressman. Ladies and Gentlemen, Article 28 of the Fundamental Law of Hungary provides that:. The courts interpret the text of the legislation in the course of the application of the law primarily in accordance with its purpose and the Fundamental Law. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The purpose of the legislation should be to take into account, in particular, the preamble to the legislation or the justification for the proposal to create or amend the legislation. The Fundamental Law, when interpreting legislation, assumes that it serves a moral and economic purpose that is consistent with common sense and the common good. The main purpose of this bill is, therefore, to establish a legislative framework in line with the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law to ensure that the justifications for the draft legislation are made public in an emerging system. Detailed rules on the publication of the justifications will be laid down in a new IM Regulation. Ladies and Gentlemen, The further objective of the bill is to establish the basis for deregulation activity and to further develop its existing rules. The bill also includes amendments to facilitate technical clarification and coherence. The entry into force of the bill is in line with the entry into force of the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law, i.e. 1 January 2019. Ladies and Gentlemen, Not to repeat what Parliamentary Secretary Pál Völner and what my Fidesz fellow Member said in his speech, Judit Czunyiné Bertalan said, I can say that the parliamentary faction of the KDNP supports T/2939. Bill No. 1. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-10-30-196	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to László Varga, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2018-10-30-197	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, An interesting genre is the parliamentary speech, because there is also a kind of art when a Member approaches the concrete proposal from a good distance. My fellow Member, Mr Vejkey, who, by the way, I am a great admirer of this House, started here from the 16th Autumn quota referendum, and there was Soros here, not at all in terms of, say, the Soros amendment or any Soros presidency. Anyway, let's put this in parentheses at this late hour, especially since it finally confirmed the previous ones. I must say that a lot of what has been said is okay and, of course, can be supported. I will go straight to the beginning of the deregulation provisions. I think that when it comes to the intention to reduce the amount of unnecessary legislation or to clean up the legislation from laws without content, it is always right. So we can obviously support such goals. Secondly, I would like to mention that the proposal partially expands the list of subjects that need to be regulated by law. That's partly true. I have been referring to the unbroken practice of the Constitutional Court for decades. Essential guarantees of direct and substantial limitation and justice of fundamental rights should be provided for in law. In the Ab Decision 64/1991, it has already been declared by the robe board, and I think it has been governed ever since. So these directions are also correct. However, with some provisions we have smaller or bigger problems, of course. These have already been referred to in part by my previous opposition colleague. I would point out, for example, that if a new administrative payment or other obligation is imposed by the legislator, another obligation should be reduced. That sounds very good, and the Fundamental Law often defines state objectives, so there are types of revelations that actually do not impose an obligation on the legislator. I think he's catching up on these, sounds good, but he doesn't impose any obligations. Otherwise, you can also raise questions of principle in this regard, because, let's say, if another government, which will eventually replace you, intends to tax the multinationals better, then I do not know how and to whom exactly that should be compensated. But, by the way, I could list here, say, the environment or, if we had the previous agenda, in relation to consumer protection rules, if there are tightening ups, obviously in order to protect consumers and the environment, then this can also raise question marks. But here we are actually talking about a rhetorical question, as I said before, because we are talking about lex in perfecta. The fourth question I would put on the table is the table of explanations, the provisions on what President Vejkey has rightly said here. He told us which place of law this is in front of us. Obviously, the aim is to strengthen the role of justifications in the interpretation of legislation, making the justifications a primary source of law. Obviously, within the framework of a rule of law, it can be said that this is all right if these explanations are available to everyone in their entirety and can be made known. This is obviously why a directory of explanations is being created. At the same time, he was here who called him positive. I would like to put it on the table as a small question mark, so that if you tie it to the preliminary statement of the preparatory of the legislation that the explanations will appear in the range of explanations, we will fully comply with this principle. In other words, they are available to all, and these explanations should be available to all of them. Let's just say that in this context, we have a minimum of question marks, and obviously it would be nice to know something about the detailed rules here. I have already asked about another proposal, such as the notaries' fees, whether we can find out anything about the IM regulation. Here, too, it would be good to take advantage of the framework of the general debate, or at least to learn a little more about this issue until the final vote. [[20.10]] The terminology of some of the proposal actually puts question marks on the table that it is feared that a kind of regulation governance can be prepared. Let life disprove us, but the truth is, we see many of these in practice. Even without the adoption of this proposal, let me put on the table, for example, a case famous as a well tax. A provision was adopted that would regulate water extraction sites and, in fact, a state that was already in place on 31 December. In other words, these water collection works, homemade little wells. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: Law No. 97!]] The unlicensed shall be authorised. These would obviously have been pushed to a later stage, partly regulated differently. In the meantime, we have heard comments on this. Make a proposal to settle the situation then [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: We do!]] I recommend this to my colleague Zoltán Kovács. For example, there is a very serious burden on many people, and I do not think it is nice for citizens to be kept in this type of uncertainty and legal uncertainty. In this connection, when this was brought in, I noted that the provision is very serious and we need to synchronize two aspects. That's what we're supposed to do here in Parliament. You said then that you would later regulate the question of exactly what quantities, where, from what depth water can be taken out to citizens in each area without authorisation. I told you then that I think it's a problem, it's not gonna work. The President of the Republic sent the bill to rule the rules, and then the Constitutional Court found it unconstitutional. So I think that dealing with such issues which partly concern fundamental rights by means of ex post regulations obviously raises very serious concerns. By the way, this was also shared by the Constitutional Court in the specific case. I hope that these question marks, which we are drawing up here, will not be confirmed later, so that the proposal does not prepare a regulation governance. But the question marks, based on our practical experience, are within us. So for the time being, I look at these few questions with a few question marks and a solid, distant distance, but there are a lot of forward-looking points in the proposal. I've told you these things, too. Therefore, we will continue to evaluate our behaviour on the basis of the expected amendments. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-10-30-198	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Gergely Arató from the Democratic Coalition Group.
u2018-10-30-199	Mr President, Dear House, What your relationship with this bill is and how brave you are to take it is not only this late hour when you have managed to put it on the agenda of the Parliament, so that it does not accidentally disturb the quietness of citizens, but also the argument that I have also respected from President Vejkey, which included everything from the invalid quota vote to German internal politics, to the devil's trinity that he outlined. The situation is, after all, if we are to face this rule honestly, and Mr Secretary of State has also rightly said that the part of this which contains something new or some kind of binding power is essentially about the fact that you have begun the final attack on the still rogue but standing bastions of the rule of law. This bill is about the fact that the inability of the Fundamental Law, not only the laws, the laws, but also the justification for them, has started to be put into practice by the courts. This regulation is also a recognition that you are unable to create normal legislation. They cannot create a law which, in itself, achieves the objective that you set by law, cannot create government decrees, ministerial decrees, which are capable of doing properly on the basis of these laws, even without justification. The essence of the rule of law, of the rule of law, is that it is not your intention, nor the justifications that no one has verified, nor the government intentions that have not been made subject to public debate, but the legislation that has been discussed and adopted in a regular manner that is binding on the enforcement of the law. The absurdity of the fact that the justification becomes essentially part of the law or other legislation, which is now being established on the technical basis, is clearly contrary to the principles of the rule of law. It also contradicts their own Fundamental Law, according to Article 26 of which judges are independent and subject only to the law. From now on, judges are not only subject to the law, they are also subject to the justification of the legislative proposals. They are essentially not subject to the law, but to the legislative intention, and that is a very serious difference. I could also say that I have mentioned here that, instead of rule of law, there is a right to rule, a time when the courts must decide according to your legislative intentions. I understand that concern, of course. After all, the last time, in the usual manner, without any substantive debate or impact assessment, I will return to this and the law on homelessness and the persecution of the homeless has been declared by the courts that they are at least constitutionally doubtful and sent to the Constitutional Court. It is obviously their intention to say next time, but we have written in the explanatory memorandum that this is not unconstitutional, we have written in it what is the intention, and then the general provisions of the Fundamental Law, the National Creed and the reasons for the interpretation of the law, and then the unlawful will be lawful, then the taking and violation of fundamental rights will be immediately justified. I must say that this is a rather transparent skill which is intended to break your independence as a judge, to break the only control that still limits their power. Other parts of the bill, I agree with my fellow Members, contain very kind, sympathetic parts. The problem is, they belong to the category of fantasy literature. We can put these in the law, but a good part of these are general rules that are not accountable, some of them contain specifics, such as on the impact assessment, but just tell me, my fellow Members, where the impact assessment was, let us say, when the state aid for housing is abolished. A congressman comes in, walks in, presents a bill, and the government enthusiastically supports him. I do not remember Mr Secretary saying that you, dear Member, should we look at an impact assessment and see what the consequences will be. But I would add that there is no public impact assessment for government proposals, which, for example, may be known by the Members of Parliament before they decide. What are we talking about? Ladies and gentlemen, you are violating this legislation every day as you wish! In essence, the Constitutional Court has been abolished, since your comrades or colleagues are sitting in the Constitutional Court, filling the Constitutional Court with party soldiers. It is no coincidence that the Constitutional Court has not taken a position on the CEU Act in a year and a half. What are we talking about, fellow Members? [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács' intervention.]] To be honest, you may rest your own conscience with this part of the legislative law, but beyond that, there will be no impact. Finally, I would like to mention that, of course, you know that this bill limits not only the courts but also the Parliament itself. The explanations are not submitted to the Parliament, they cannot be tabled by an amendment, they cannot be voted off. The justification will include what the author wrote in it. This means that Parliament will resign for a significant part of its control role over the legal system. He will give up his right to legislate on the merits, since the justifications that are not in the law will now be governed by law. I have no doubt, and as I have heard the lead speakers, this is a valid doubt or easy to reject, so I have no doubt that, of course, my pro-government fellow Members will be happy to vote for this reduction in Parliament's powers, just as the vast majority of the German Parliament of 33 happily voted in favour of the delegation bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: That's a pretty strong exaggeration.]]
u2018-10-30-200	Thank you, Congressman. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. I don't see a candidate... [[For signal:]] Excuse me, Congressman Imre Vejkey has applied for a two-minute comment. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-10-30-201	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Very briefly, but in any case, I must reject the speech by my fellow Member, Gergely Arató, especially given that this bill would be at any level similar to the decision of the third Imperial Parliament of 1933. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács applauds.]] [[20.20]] Dear fellow Member, Let's not confuse total dictatorship with a rule of law, because painting the devil on the wall never brings good results. I'm asking you to withdraw this statement. He also made statements as if they were not honest, well-intentioned people from the Hungarian government, but those who would want to play legislation to bring various legislative proposals to Parliament, and they would submit a completely different content of justifications to it. Obviously, the justification of the bill will lay the foundations for the text of the bill itself, as has been the case, in the future. All of this merely serves the purpose of making it easier for the judicial authority itself, the enforcer, to reveal more easily what the spirit of the law behind the letters is. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-30-202	Thank you, Congressman. Mr Zoltán Kovács also applied for a two-minute comment. You have the floor.
u2018-10-30-203	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Imre Vejkey spoke from my heart here to compare the two parliaments, and I do not wish to repeat that. I would like to reflect on one more thing, my honourable fellow Member. You were a government secretary, you were a State Secretary, you were sitting right in front of me as the Secretary of State for Education. I remember very well that you introduced a number of educational laws into Parliament, there was no impact assessment.
u2018-10-30-204	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else wants to comment. [[For signal:]] Congressman Gábor Staudt signaled, and I'll give you the floor in two minutes.
u2018-10-30-205	Thank you very much, Mr President, just one sentence. What is the argument that the socialists did the same thing as you? Maybe both courses were illegal. So let's finish this, we can't establish the right to lawlessness. Even though the socialists were corrupt and the laws were adopted in this way, this should not be a reference. Thank you.
u2018-10-30-206	Thank you, Congressman. I would like to point out to Mr Zoltán Kovács that he does not have the opportunity to make a two-minute comment now, but it is possible to make a normal comment. If it's such a nice debate, I won't stand in your way. [[On Dr. Zoltán Kovács' signal:]] I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Kovács in a normal time frame.
u2018-10-30-207	Thank you very much. I'm not gonna take the 15 minutes, even though there's an urge. I think Gábor Staudt misunderstood what I said. I have told you the fact that, when my fellow Member Arató was State Secretary, this does not mean that Erik Bánki should submit an impact assessment, this is an individual motion for an opinion. You have already presented a number of these to Parliament, and you have not brought any impact assessments. We are sitting on a committee, I have not yet seen that several individual motions or amendments signed by Gábor Staudt have been accompanied by an impact study. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: I didn't bring it from the Ministry.]] So I wasn't talking about comparing lawlessness with lawlessness, I was just stating one fact: when my fellow Member Arató was a State Secretary, they weren't in the Education Act... [[Gergely Harvester: Yes I did!]] I'm sorry. I'm going to modify it so that not all of them have had impact assessments, and I think we can close this part, get back to the main question.
u2018-10-30-208	Thank you, Congressman. Congressman László Varga has also applied for a normal comment. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-10-30-209	Thank you very much. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I just want to take this opportunity to say such things here for the future. I would like to propose that, if you include a series of proposals, we will be very enthusiastic in the parliamentary debate, adding to them the masses of impact assessments. The real problem for Gábor Staudt is that opposition motions are mostly not included in a series of subjects, either on committees, on committees or in front of the House. This is therefore a rather odd comparison, comparing continuously and dumpingally voted opposition motions with the circumstances under which legislation adopted in an exceptional procedure involving more than one million Hungarians, such as the restructuring and dismantling of the housing savings system, can be formulated according to each political point of view. So I think it's worth a little restraint. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-30-210	Thank you, Congressman. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] There are no candidates, so the general debate is closed. I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner as rapporteur.
u2018-10-30-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Just related to what was said, which was the question. The Ministry of Justice decree on the content of the explanations can be found on the government's website, so it is available and can be viewed in the context of a social debate. As far as the rest is concerned, it has indeed been mentioned here by my fellow Member Vejkey and by my fellow Member Zoltán Kovács, this is not a delegation law, so let us leave it to that effect, so that Parliament will continue to have the main burden of legislation, and that government regulations, or ministerial decrees, can be created within the legal framework, as has been the case so far. Zoltán Kovács referred to the motion by his representatives, that is, that it was a proposal in line with the rules of the legislation, which was contested. I believe that the proposal tabled actually increases the guarantee elements of legislation. And to exclude the explanatory statement, let us say, from the interpretation of judicial law, I think it would be irresponsible, because it is the intention of the legislator that is primarily reflected in the legislation, and in the same way that a commentary or a professional, university or scientific position must have at least the same power as judicial legislation or the establishment of the application of the law. Thank you.
u2018-10-30-212	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The amendments may be submitted on Monday 5 November at 4 p.m. We now have a general debate on the bill on the enforcement of financial compensation for the withdrawal of certain court proceedings until closure. The government referral is T/2923. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I will also give the floor to Mr Pál Völner.
u2018-10-30-213	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ensuring that the law is enforced in a reasonable time is an outstanding social expectation and is the basis for the operation of the rule of law. The demand for this is reflected in our international commitments, and I am thinking of the European Convention on Human Rights, which is also declared by our highest source of law, the Fundamental Law. The purpose of the bill is to contribute to the fulfilment of this right by means of a specific legal protection solution, in order to comply with international standards relating to the effective enforcement of the right to proceedings within a reasonable period of time. In recent years and at present, the government has placed great emphasis on speeding up and making decision-making processes more effective, both by renewing procedural laws on court proceedings and by amending other laws. In this context, the most important legislative steps in recent years have been the creation of new codes of procedure. As you know, the new Civil Procedure Act, the Administrative Rules Act and the New Criminal Procedure Act came into force on 1 January 2018. These codes contain a number of rules designed to ensure that the Hungarian court proceedings are conducted effectively without undue delay, in a tight timetable, by eliminating the factors leading to unnecessary delays in proceedings, within a reasonable period of time. In our renewed procedural law, the emphasis is therefore placed on ensuring per-concentration at systemic level, and new legal institutions with greater efficiency are also emerging. In addition to the fact that the government intends to prevent the continuation of court proceedings at systemic level by creating these new procedural codes, today's bill provides for the possibility of using a legal protection instrument which provides ex post compensation to seekers of rights in order to complete these measures. The regulatory solution to the bill also takes into account the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights in relation to the Convention, thus providing for new remedies for procedures that are prolonged beyond a reasonable period of time. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill places under special legal protection the fundamental right to complete the judicial procedure within a reasonable period of time, establishes a new legal consequence to compensate for the breach of fundamental rights and sets a separate procedure for the enforcement of claims for asset satisfaction. The introduction of the new financial compensation, the so-called asset satisfaction, is an essential element of the bill. In view of the breach of its fundamental right, the financial satisfaction shall be granted to a person who is party to the legal proceedings or who is subject to a charge, if the judicial proceedings exceed the time specified by law, which may be considered to be strictly sufficient for the conduct of the proceedings. [[20.30]] It should be pointed out that it is not a breach of any damage or of the right of personality, but a violation of a specific fundamental right that is the basis for the assessment of financial compensation, and therefore the procedure under the proposal does not prevent the party from bringing proceedings under the general procedural rules in order to remedy the damage suffered to him or her in connection with the procrastination of legal proceedings. The bill sets out the period which it considers strictly sufficient to complete the judicial procedure and states that exceeding that period opens the possibility of enforcing the claim for financial satisfaction. In the case of civil proceedings, the period considered as strictly sufficient to complete the judicial proceedings shall be five years, administrative litigation and, in principle, three years in the case of criminal proceedings. In the latter cases, the reason for determining the shorter period is that the administrative proceedings are preceded by an official procedure and criminal proceedings are preceded by an investigation, the duration of which should also be taken into account for the duration of the proceedings. The objective is to ensure that judicial proceedings in more complex cases, taken together with these preventive procedures, do not lead to excessive delays. It is, of course, a fundamental requirement that judicial proceedings be completed over a much shorter period than the periods presented here, while the bill provides for the possibility of claim enforcement in the event of a reasonable period. The claim enforcement procedure for the withdrawal of judicial proceedings is separated into two stages: a procedure before the Minister of Justice and, subsequently, a court-martial procedure. The bill regulates a binding compromise attempt before the Minister of Justice and, in the event of its failure, opens the possibility of enforcement of claims in civil court proceedings. The fact that court enforcement is a condition for participation in the preliminary settlement procedure serves the purposes of the out-of-court settlement and the purpose of the litigation. The negotiation procedure can be particularly beneficial for the party seeking the right because it can be satisfied quickly and cost-effectively by agreement with the Minister for Justice outside judicial proceedings. The likely benefits of the settlement procedure are mainly in terms of simplicity, efficiency and lack of legal representation. In the context of judicial enforcement, greater scope can be given to considering specific circumstances. Accordingly, it may be the subject of a more extensive investigation as to whether, in the course of the underlying legal proceedings, there was a period which was unnecessary, either for reasons of the interest of the party or of the court in the course of the proceedings under consideration. These aspects may have an impact on the reasonable duration of the underlying court proceedings, thereby on the extent of the financial satisfaction. The party is, of course, free to consider whether or not to enforce its claim in court following an unsuccessful settlement procedure. Ensuring efficiency was also a fundamental aspect in establishing rules for enforcement before a court. The court shall decide on the basis of the documents available. After receipt of the parties' substantive statements, i.e. the request to initiate the procedure and its control, the court must also take a substantive decision within three months to complete the necessary evidence and procedure. This time frame is also intended to provide adequate compensation to the claimant within a reasonable period of time. I ask this House to contribute with its vote in favour to the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-30-214	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The main speaker speeches will now take place. First, I give the floor to Dr. Judit Bertalan, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-10-30-215	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, What is the most important or most important purpose of this bill is in sufficient detail, but I would like to draw your attention to the previous agenda, a little in conjunction with the fact that the text of the legislative proposal available on Parliament's website and the general and detailed explanations attached thereto contain, in an absolute satisfactory manner, a technical justification and a detailed explanation explaining the purpose of the bill. This is what I propose to my fellow Members as a guide in the study of the bill before us. So the bill is T/2923. Legislative bill No 1 on the enforcement of financial compensation in connection with the withdrawal of certain judicial proceedings. The Secretary of State referred to international conventions and international regulators in his exposé, on the basis of which the Government of Hungary formulated this bill; the specific legal protection objective and the fundamental right to which the bill before us is intended to protect. I'd go from a more prosaic or simpler path. I believe that the purpose and content of the bill before us, as well as the detailed regulation, are intended to eliminate, in the future, the everyday life and the unpleasant and bad experience for citizens, which should be long-term legal proceedings in civil, criminal or administrative matters, to put everyone at a disadvantage, to be inconvenienced by unjustified and judicial practices or a prolonged period of litigation on the part of the courts. It is also a very important and new element of this legislation's bill, to be precise, that, by introducing a new asset settlement title, it establishes an independent legal institution for the protection of rights, sui generis. Mr Secretary of State has referred to it, but let me stress this: there is no need for the actual damage to have occurred, the procedure itself has been completed within a reasonable period of time, and its absence gives rise to the right to enforce this right of financial satisfaction. I believe that the time limits in this regard, the time limits allocated to civil, criminal, administrative and administrative proceedings and which are sufficient, which limit the period of reasonable procedure to different rules from the filing of an application or in criminal proceedings and administrative proceedings, but in five or three years respectively, I believe that it is legally justified. It can therefore be sufficiently thorough on the part of both clients and those involved in the proceedings, and on the other hand, sufficient time for judicial work, while at the same time sufficient time to ensure that the parties to the proceedings are not seriously harmed by the prolonged judicial proceedings. It concerns the lawsuits, so, as Mr Secretary of State has said, does not apply to previous procedural acts, to administrative proceedings and, in criminal proceedings, to the investigative phase. It is very important that this regulation, this new sui generis legal institution, follows a procedure in which it requires the citizen to have a proper speed, efficiency and otherwise a reasonable procedure in order of procedure, how he can enforce this legal protection institution. There is no longer any extension of this with the deadlines and new procedural acts experienced in previous bureaucratic and previous proceedings, since, as the Secretary of State has said, the settlement with the Minister of Justice in a non-court procedure makes it significantly easier, accelerates and brings the party concerned close to enforcing the financial satisfaction. I think that both the basic law and the legislative will are clearly reflected in the bill before us, and I would stress the importance or the importance of not only being founded by an independent legal institution, not only a specific new system of civil rights violations arising from judicial proceedings, but I also think it is important that the regulation of this detail, the working of it, provides sufficient security. So if I look at the legal certainty side and the security side of the legal system, the bill before us has been drawn up in a proper way. I would ask my fellow Members to support the bill before us. On the part of the Fidesz fraction, the bill is supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[20.40]]
u2018-10-30-216	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Gábor Staudt, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2018-10-30-217	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear House, There is a really important proposal in front of this House, and I do not know why it has been necessary to wait for this to happen and why it has been necessary to wait for the human rights court to declare Hungary's responsibility for creating such a law. Otherwise, I would add that it would be best if this did not happen, because the procedures in Hungary would be completed so quickly that we would not have seen in bulk that citizens affected by criminal or civil lawsuits and delays in Strasbourg have to turn to the human rights court in Strasbourg, and in this case we would obviously not be able to talk about a mass problem for which a separate law is required. But if it has already happened, it is, of course, gratifying that this proposal can finally come before this House. I would like to add that it does not reveal many points, I do not know whether the decree, which I will mention, is already available on the Ministry's website; it would be very good, especially in terms of the amounts to be paid, to see it more clearly. But I am not going that far, the point is that, as I said, we consider the proposal to be forward-looking, but some of our critical comments will certainly be made. The Secretary of State said that the periods which should be regarded as being five years in civil proceedings, three years in criminal proceedings, and three years in administrative proceedings, which should be considered to be an excessive time for the termination of legal proceedings. I would like to point out here that, in the case of criminal proceedings, it is not just the judicial stage that can be delayed, just as is the investigation and prosecution phase, which you are removing from the deadline calculation in this proposal. Therefore, a person may be under investigation or prosecution for five years or even three years, and the court proceedings may then take place, say, plus two and a half years, then, under the current rules, the whole procedure in his case cannot be considered to have been prolonged to such an extent that it can be assessed and be entitled to any compensation. This is outrageous, I think, because in the practice of the human rights court, as you describe, not only a court hearing when talking about a criminal case, not only the trial, but also the prosecution and the police department, so the investigation department must be evaluated, and its duration must be included. As I said, in Hungary, they tend to pull away as much as they do before the courts, and in this way you are avoiding the fact that, of course, prosecution by the state involves not only the courts, but also the prosecution and the investigating authorities, or even the investigating authorities, that if someone is prosecuted, he can say to the final decision that his case has been assessed. What is positive is that regardless of the level, so how many courts have been there, regardless of how many levels the proposal states these periods, obviously if, let's say, a third-degree or a review procedure is mentioned, it will increase them to four years. It wouldn't be evil in itself if we took the investigative department. Then, as the Secretary of State has said, the first stage is to turn to the Minister, so that if a person wants to enforce such a claim, he has to turn to the Minister of Justice, and if there is no agreement, then the second stage can enter after the first stage, and then there is also the possibility of a court case. Moreover, the introduction of this new legislation, this new form, a form of satisfaction does not mean that a person can go to court for damages or other damages caused by judicial powers. This is good, so we are pleased that this does not exclude it in itself, but I must tell you frankly, I do not understand why the Minister of Justice needs to be involved in the first stage, moreover, by not really having a discretion for the Minister; this is described by you as being a taxative in the government decree to be created, and if I understand for what length of time I think it is, the Secretary of State does not say here the number of years that this Government decree is available, I suppose it is not yet possible to judge for what delay, I suppose, in the civil, administrative and criminal proceedings it can be judged separately. So this requires a mechanical control, the paperwork has to be submitted, it is found that these procedures have actually been delayed and judged, and it would be equally appropriate for the court to act in the first instance. So if you write this in several places, in the detailed explanation, in the general statement of reasons, that there is no great consideration for the minister here, then why should he be involved, sending documents, the first degree will send it up to the minister, he will determine something, and then he will have to involve an extra circle, with the Minister involved in this, in fact, an unnecessary centralization. I am pleased that this procedure can be submitted free of charge and on a form, it is natural, and I am pleased that this is how it came to be included in the proposal, but, as I said, we also have a few criticisms that I would like to address in detail. I have already mentioned why it is very difficult that the investigative department is not counted, but it may also arise in administrative proceedings, not only in criminal proceedings, because if someone is looking for his truth in front of any administrative authority, he will be less interested in, let's say, how many more courts he has to attend, his injury or his problem or his discontent towards the state, because of the delay in the lawsuit, he will appear in the same way if the various authorities drag these cases out in the first degree or second degree. It is also positive that there will be interest on late payment after it has been established, and once these amounts, the compensation paid is due, this should also be the case, but, as I said, we would very much like to know the specific rules of the conciliation procedure, at least the amount due, how much these amounts may be... I think that we can talk about much less than the Strasbourg Court's practice, since they want to get away with these procedures, i.e. that a large number of serious amounts have to be paid, but we would expect some information on this, because if these are otherwise reasonable amounts, then the proposal is also eligible. If people are to be spotted with a minimal amount of money, then, of course, this proposal may encounter abstentions or even a negative vote from the opposition. I would like to point out that it is positive that it does not require legal representation of the proceedings, we say that it would be good to extend it to the proceedings before the executives, but I do not want to go into that right now. In this case, this is certainly forward-looking. I would push the initiative within six months, Mr Secretary of State, for at least one year, given that citizens are often not in a position or are not always in a position to be absolutely aware that they have such a right and that half a year can pass quite quickly. I feel that the state is also trying to escape from fulfilling its obligations here. Actually, I have one more comment on Section 11. If the minister makes an offer, then it must be accepted by the person who submitted the application, so it is okay, but if he does not explicitly do so, i.e. acceptance by the citizen, then his submission should be considered withdrawn. [[20.50]] I think that, in the event that someone had already made a submission, asked the Minister to establish it, so that he lived with a petition at the Court of First Instance and got to the Minister, the Minister stated that the circumstances existed, that compensation should be established, that if he did not respond to it, that he would accept the Minister's proposal, that would be correct. Article 17 is replaced by the following: The General Court of Debrecen is referred to as the Court of Justice with exclusive jurisdiction. It is strange here that they refer to the unification of the case law. As I have just said, too many case-laws cannot be established, since taxatically it will be determined in the Government Decree how much is due, so here the reference to case-law is excessive. And I don't even know why the Debrecen Tribunal was elected, so maybe there's a lower number of cases. But what if that changes? It is therefore more appropriate to install such powers and exclusive jurisdictions in a court in Budapest, so that, of course, they also provide the right workforce. We also did not find out why the Kecskemét Tribunal would be seconded if the Debrecen Tribunal and other district courts, such as those under it, had acted. With these comments, I would very much expect the Secretary of State to give us a response to the sum, and in this case this could be an acceptable proposal. So he's still waiting for a number of points to be explained. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-30-218	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2018-10-30-219	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/2923 on the enforcement of financial compensation in connection with the withdrawal of certain judicial proceedings. The purpose of the proposal is to contribute to the full fulfilment of our international legal obligations relating to the application of the right to a procedure within a reasonable period of time provided for in the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Article 6 (1) of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of 4 November 1950 in Rome states the right to a fair trial, i.e. that everyone has the right to have his or her case discussed by the court established by the law, independent and impartial, fair, publicly and within a reasonable period of time, and to take a decision on his or her civil rights and obligations and on the merits of criminal charges against him. This is the so-called fair trial principle. This principle is set out in Annex XXXI of 1993. Law introduced it into the Hungarian legal system. The publication of the Constitution of the Fundamental Law in force in Hungary Article XXVIII. 1 (1) is reflected. On the basis of the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, the length of the procedure is assessed in conjunction with four aspects. The first aspect is the complexity of the case, which means that the complexity of the case can justify the long procedure, the length of the procedure, but even so, beyond a given period, the complexity of the case cannot be a basis for the extraordinary length of the trial. Point 2 is the party's contribution, which means, on the one hand, the party's responsibility for the length of time and, on the other, the examination of whether the party has acted with due care in each procedural act. criterion 3 is the body's procedure, which means that it is the court responsible for examining its time-consuming conduct. Option 4 is the bet of the case, which means whether or not the case was subject to an out-of-court proceeding on the basis of the interests of the party, on the basis of which the case was placed. In recent decades, the European Court of Human Rights has regularly judged so-called fair redress in relation to the extension of Hungarian court proceedings at the request of the parties to the proceedings. Ladies and Gentlemen, The 2016 CXXX on the new Rules of Procedure. Laws 157 and 158 In accordance with Article 5 of the Rules of Procedure, objections may be lodged where the court has failed to fulfil its obligation to close the proceedings within a reasonable period of time. The objection may be lodged with the court in which the case is brought and presented by the party or the defendant. The present bill also sets out, on the one hand, the period which must be absolutely sufficient to complete the judicial procedure and, on the other hand, states that simply exceeding the sufficient period of time in the judicial proceedings justifies the establishment of financial compensation. The bill provides for a period of five years for the completion of civil proceedings, and three years for the completion of administrative proceedings and of the first and second degree criminal proceedings, as my colleagues have already said. The bill also differentiates the limit of reasonable time between the levels at which judicial proceedings have taken place. In the case of a judicial level, the bill considers an average of 2-3 years and an average of 3-4 years in the case of two courts, with the date on which the application was lodged in the case of civil administrative proceedings, and the date on which the indictment was brought in the case of criminal proceedings, and the date on which the decision to close the proceedings became final. Ladies and Gentlemen, The bill seeks to ensure this while giving the party the right to a tax exemption in respect of this court non-court proceedings. The KDNP parliamentary faction therefore supports the bill. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-30-220	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to László Varga, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2018-10-30-221	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In recent decades, the European Court of Human Rights has condemned a large number of our countries, and then the Hungarian State had to reimburse two billion forints as compensation in this group of cases. So I have to say that it is justified that you have made a presentation. From the title of the submission, let us say, who would not support this in principle, in view of what was in principle, who would not support the fact that certain judicial proceedings do not go far beyond reasonable limits. However, there are some doubts in us this time, and I would like to talk briefly about them, and I hope that I will have an answer now or that in the coming weeks they will be partially modified. First of all, on time-setting, experts have already spoken in part over the past period, and now my fellow Members have also said their concerns. As far as civil proceedings are concerned, in principle, five years are laid down in the proposal and three years in the case of administrative and criminal matters as a period which is necessarily sufficient to complete the judicial procedure. The question may immediately be whether the basis or the essence of the proposal is whether they can be determined in such an objective way, whether it is okay or whether there are question marks. For example, in the case of a criminal case, in a very complex criminal case, it is possible that there is a reason for a procedure beyond three years, but at the same time I have to say that it seems very unreasonable to us, to me, that the opposite is also true, so that in certain cases it gives us the opportunity to drag a case away, so to speak. [[21.00]] After all, a decision can be taken on a simple, non-specific issue or on civil proceedings in a very short period of time, so this five-year principle is an opportunity to delay, where appropriate. Perhaps it has been said here earlier that it is also an important issue regarding the completion of a procedure within a reasonable period of time, so that there are no unnecessary interruptions in one procedure. The Civil Procedure Act grants an independent right of appeal against the suspension and the order for interruption in order to ensure that the proceedings are conducted. So, as a result of such an appeal, the order may be annulled, where appropriate, or the court in question may change it. While this does not constitute a procedural infringement, it is logical to say that it is clearly considered as a wasted time for the termination of the procedure within a reasonable time. This is also a question that I had to put on the table, so the issue of unnecessary breaks. We talked about the preparatory phase. I would go further, because it was almost as an innovation here by the pro-government representatives that preventive procedures were not included in the procedure. I think that's a problem. What I would like to say is that the administrative, administrative or investigative procedures are not included in this issue, it is a serious problem and it is specifically opposed to the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. This has also been said earlier, my opposition colleague, Gábor Staudt, said, I believe that there is at least as much delay in criminal proceedings here at the investigative stage as there is a threat as in the courtroom afterwards. The settlement procedure with the Minister and the court section here, I think there's been quite a lot of talk in front of me. I'd like to get right to the cash settlement. We have referred to the prelude to a kind of regulation governance, not only in relation to the previous proposal, but also in terms of experience. Here, too, a government decree is already being referred to, which will establish, in terms of financial satisfaction, tariffs, so to speak; I do not know if that is the right word. While I think one of the questions is that, if that is the case, which I do not necessarily agree with, but if that is the case, then it would be good to see exactly what amount these represent. Do they spot people's eyes with one of these amounts, actually taking away their opportunity, their right to enforce their rights elsewhere, or do they actually have the right amounts in this government decree? I'd love to see this. Moreover, a court would be able to do so, because I think it is very difficult, let us say, to price human life or human dignity as a fundamental right in a government decree in the case of an infringement of fundamental rights. That's a very strange way for me to do it. I don't think it's lucky. The exclusive jurisdiction of the General Court of Debrecen was also mentioned. Otherwise, it arises why it is not a judgment board or, where appropriate, why it is necessary to establish this type of exclusive competence. In particular, if there is a government decree with tariffs here, there are not many reasons for this, at least in no case in the case of case law. With regard to the deadline, it has been suggested that this deadline should be extended, that the limitation period should not be six months, but I would prefer to put some principle on the table here. In the event of a fundamental human rights violation, it is not certain to set deadlines, and I think that there is no justification. This may be illegal in some cases, but the nature of the limitation period is, in any case, totally unjustified, because it is, in fact, directly restricting the fundamental right of enforcement for people. I don't think that's right. It is in no way desirable to limit fundamental human rights in this sense by a limitation period. To sum up in three points, my speech is closed at this late hour: firstly, there can be a lot of simple civil lawsuits where this kind of regulation, the objective nature of the deadline, can extend procedures too much. This is surprising, because I know that the intention of the legislator, or I trust that this is not the intention of the legislator, is not, in any case, the subject of consideration, and I dispute the correctness of this. In this sense, it is questionable that the violation of fundamental human rights in the government decree should be labelled with price tags. There are individual cases, there are no two identical cases, the court can consider in this regard, I think. With regard to the limitation periods, I would like to point out once again that, in fact, this proposal deprives those concerned, at least in part, of their right to a fair trial, which is by no means a good thing. So beyond the intent, I think that, on the basis of what has been said, there have been quite a lot of question marks in us, in our faction, and in me, so I hope that you can disperse these question marks, but I am skeptical on the subject, so I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-10-30-222	Thank you, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. Now it is possible to make a two-minute comment. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt.
u2018-10-30-223	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I missed one very important thing, which is Cardinal. Article 6 According to the judgment in criminal proceedings, when it is stated in the judgment that the length of proceedings has been taken into account in some way, there is no compensation. Mr. Secretary, this is absurd, because if these proceedings go on, the court, let's say, in a case over five years, has a dog's duty to consider the length of the sentence. But if you've considered it, there's nothing on this basis, so it's actually the 6th. It's like they don't give you anything. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-30-224	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey for two minutes.
u2018-10-30-225	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. My fellow Member, László Varga, criticised the fact that in recent years Hungary has had to pay nearly HUF 2 billion on the basis of decisions in Strasbourg in this respect. You must know here, ladies and gentlemen, that this is not a crime of the government, it is actually a crime of the court. And the courts made the country pay for it. That's why the new Pp was extremely important. The new Pp., which entered into force on 1 January 2018, one of the most significant changes of which was the introduction of the trial phase. The action phase is a new procedure, which means that the plaintiff himself must be presented with the full petition, the evidence must be presented, and the defendant must be presented with a view to defending himself against the petites he has called for, the evidence he has called for. And then it follows, after the court has issued an order to proceed with the trial in this round. Now the court proceedings can continue in this restricted area. I think it's here for the flat-out, almost decades-long lawsuits, because as a lawyer, I've seen it happen in the past, that it's been going through the third degree several times, and it's starting from the first degree again, and I think we're going to put an end to it. In the course of criminal proceedings, I can also say that the investigative course, if it does not complete within a certain period of time, is the new Be. There's no way to press charges. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]] [[21.10]]
u2018-10-30-226	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató in two minutes.
u2018-10-30-227	Dear House, Congressman Vejkey rightly suspects that I have some suspicions about the government's good intentions in general, but this time we think it is basically a bill that can be agreed on with its fundamental objectives. Prolonged court proceedings are indeed a serious problem, not only at the time of this government, but also at the time of previous governments. However, there are doubts about the way in which the regulation is done, and my fellow Members who have studied it have made it very clear in detail, and so I would not repeat their comments, but I would just suggest that, on the one hand, the kind of regulation which sets rigid deadlines regardless of the gravity and nature of the case is not necessarily realistic. For example, in the case of administrative proceedings, there are sometimes relatively simple procedural acts and appeals, not by that name, by apologies, by means of judicial redress, which entered the case of previous appeals proceedings. Here the three years can be regarded as quite a long time. The European Court of Human Rights itself, as my fellow Members know, and, by the way, as the truly excellent justification contains this, considers, on the basis of rather complex criteria, when a judicial procedure can be considered unduly long. It is a big question whether this type of levelling is capable of having regard to the complexity of these procedures, for example, to the extent to which delays can be attributed to errors or activities of court clients, where appropriate, lawyers. That is why there are doubts here, and there are indeed doubts about the regulation of the government in the regulation. Finally, I would also like to confirm that we ourselves consider it a serious problem that the investigative phase of criminal proceedings and the preparatory procedure have not been included in this type of consideration, this time limit. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-30-228	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman László Varga in two minutes.
u2018-10-30-229	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleague Vejkey, I hope I'm being precise, I don't remember saying it was the government's responsibility. Obviously, conclusions can also be drawn from the title of the proposal here according to the principles of separation of powers. So, of course, we are talking about reimbursing property in connection with the withdrawal of court proceedings. Obviously, the government may have a significant responsibility in terms of the legislative environment it proposes to Parliament, the legislative proposals it puts forward, and then the laws it adopts. Obviously, this could have been done sooner on certain issues, but I did not necessarily stress the responsibility of the government on this issue. On the other hand, I would like to put on the table what you said here about the deadline: I think that we should observe or appreciate this issue from the perspective of citizens. So I understand that you also referred to the new Pp., but at the same time I would like to say that citizens also appreciate the procedures relating to them, including the investigative department, the investigative department, including the procedure and, of course, the judicial procedure. I think it would be better to reconcile these deadlines, forming a whole picture of this and looking at it from the citizen's point of view. Now I'm saying something that may not fit this terminology, but maybe it's a customer-friendly or user-friendly... it's probably a really bad analogy, but that, from their point of view, and that's why these preventive procedures should be included, especially because of what my fellow Member Arató rightly said, that the European Court of Human Rights counts in its practice, so I think that Parliament should create legislation in sync with this. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-30-230	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed and I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary.
u2018-10-30-231	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Sometimes there were consonant points of discussion, so I will try to respond in one piece to what has been said. As I referred to at the beginning of the expozee, the new codes of procedure... the last one came into force on 1 July, so before the entry into force of these rules on the procedures related to them would have been premature. I also pointed out in the exposé that the case law of the European Court of Human Rights has also been taken into account in the design of the regulation. There have also been reports of the extent to which they will be. Thus, according to established case-law, it appears from various cases that from the level they set, a domestic regulation could indeed accept a value of 70 per cent. In general, the court sets higher charges, such as encouraging Member States to establish internal rules as soon as possible. So, if we had to tell you now how much, on the basis of legal authorisation, will be the rate set in this tariff, then about the case law of the courts can be predicted. Why is the attempt to make a deal with the Justice Department? In practice, it is possible to collect in one place from the territory of the whole country, without having to appoint a separate court or court level for this task. The other thing is that it doesn't require a very simple... procedural representative either, technically, if you don't accept it, then you can go to court, so the lawsuit is also guaranteed. The other, the six-month deadline, is what we consider as a kind of restriction. Strasbourg is also available in six months, so we have actually taken into account international practice here. Why can't you go to the judge's board? The referee is usually an appeal court, so appeals are filed. If, obviously, the court does not have the right decision, then an appeal can be made, and this opens up the possibility of a judgment panel. Moreover, the setting of time limits does not encourage cases to lapse, since there is no such deadline at the moment, and the courts are closing cases in the vast majority of cases within a very visible period of one and a half years. Here, this law institution is made up of exactly the outstanding cases. So much in advance, and then we will obviously continue to respond to the points in the Commission debate. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-10-30-232	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The amendments may be submitted on Monday 5 November at 4 p.m. We now have a general debate on the bill to amend certain laws on criminal matters and other related laws until closure. The government referral is T/2934. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to give the floor once again to State Secretary Pál Völner.
u2018-10-30-233	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, The bill before you is not one of the most extensive codification works. The proposal, which contains all 31 paragraphs, implements a number of amendments and clarifications which are considered to be of cardinal importance. It shows the importance of the issues to be resolved, and the effectiveness of the legislative process, taking full account of professional opinions and the full involvement of the wallets, that the result of the administrative consultation was a proposal for a proposal for a law that was supported in a professionally comprehensive manner. The new Code of Criminal Procedure introduced several new legal institutions. Some have been renamed or otherwise regulated in a way other than Article XIX of 1998 on criminal proceedings. Law. These changes required amendments to a number of laws, a significant part of which was also implemented within the framework of the legislative package of amendments to certain laws relating to the entry into force of the new law on criminal proceedings. The new Be. However, no clarification has been made so far in view of its entry into force in view of the adaptation of the fundamental parts of the laws requiring amendment. The changes of a very technical nature which form part of the first group of proposals replace this failure. In this context, for example, a more thought-out system of judicial decisions and, in this context, the definition of legal force developed in the new Be., or a new Be, will be implemented in line with the new rules of the private and private proceedings. the introduction of new concepts in the context of coercive measures by the legislation concerned. The proposal contains two amendments, in the context of the main legislative provisions, which are not linked to the Be. the date of entry into force of this Regulation. On the one hand, by amending the Law on the Constitutional Court, it provides the possibility for the Constitutional Court to set up a scholarship to extend their professional knowledge in renowned foreign institutions, constitutional courts and courts with work and research experience. [[21.20]] In addition, by raising the established prosecution practice to a standard, the Attorney General, prosecutors and other public prosecutors, and by amending the law on the career of prosecutors, makes it compulsory, for reasons of guarantee, for the prosecutor to appoint a disciplinary officer to investigate disciplinary offences. The amendment to the Criminal Code was justified by the decision of the Constitutional Court. The Board shall be composed of 7/2018. AB stated in its decision that the National Assembly caused a failure to comply with the basic law by stating that the Btk. 266. In paragraph 2 of the Article, by establishing the exclusive right to report a body or person qualifying for certification, it did not regulate the initiation of criminal proceedings for misuse of classified information and the enforcement of State criminal claims in accordance with constitutional requirements. According to the Panel, the regulation, in its present form, leads to an anomaly that, when a crime is committed by a qualifying person, criminal proceedings can only be initiated on the basis of a criminal complaint by the perpetrator. Since in such cases the person who commits the offence is entitled to the complaint, the proceeding will not be initiated, which means that the State will give up its content to protect the public interest, as set out in the Act on the Protection of Classified Data. The full compliance with the requirements of the Constitutional Court was the solution which, by abolishing the restriction of the right to report and returning to the regulation before 2010, allows anyone to have the option of Be in case of suspicion of misuse of classified information. have the right to file a complaint in accordance with its general rules. The proposal amends SIS II. law and the law on criminal cooperation with the Member States of the European Union. There are several reasons for this amendment: on the one hand, the simplification of SIS II under judicial authority and judicial control in accordance with EU requirements. the procedure for placing a flag in a system; on the other hand, ensuring a more precise compliance with Union law and, on the third, strengthening the protection of fundamental rights of the defendants. The proposal also amends the Code of Criminal Enforcement with a view to standardising different interpretation practices in the application of the law. The most serious penalty to be imposed by a court in criminal proceedings for the commission of a criminal offence is imprisonment. The prison sentence is associated with the institution of conditional release as a prison benefit. If authorised, the sentenced person shall no longer spend a specified part of the term of imprisonment imposed in the final judgment within the walls of the penitentiary. This is the most effective way for the sentenced person to commit to a law-abiding lifestyle as soon as possible and to help reintegrate into society and make a significant contribution to reducing prison congestion. With regard to its authorisation, the standard text in force provides a wide margin of discretion for the applicant. However, a narrow interpretation of the law cannot be excluded. The existence of the latter is highlighted in the summary opinion of the Curia's case-law analysis group on prison judicial practice, according to which judicial practice is not uniform as to the essential aspects to be examined when deciding on conditional release. The starting point, and this must also be emphasised, is that the basic aim of the punishment is to protect society. The assessment of this should not be disregarded when deciding whether to grant a benefit. The prison judge makes his decision on the basis of a complex set of criteria, which the proposed amendment intends to contribute to in order to achieve this in a uniform manner with an exemplary list. On the basis of the proposal, the offence committed, the penalty imposed and the length of time still to be carried out should be considered as a benchmark for the conduct of the sentenced person following the imposition of the sentence. From the latter's point of view, repentance on the part of the condemned person is of particular importance. This may be indicated by any conduct of the sentenced person during the execution of the sentence which serves to repair the harm or damage caused to the victim, including compensation for the harm caused by the offence or the initiation of performance. With regard to the application of conditional release of leave, the complex examination of the system of discretion that appears at the statutory level can be used to establish a uniform practice of application that meets the requirements of the legislator and established social needs. Dear House, It can be seen from what has been said that there are important objectives behind each of the amendments contained in the bill. The solutions included in the proposal are backed by a serious conciliation process and general professional support, which, in my view, provides sufficient guarantees as to the justification and relevance of the proposed amendments. In view of all this, I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-30-234	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The main speaker speeches will now take place. First, I give the floor to Zoltán Kovács, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-10-30-235	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, On the one hand, this bill before Parliament aims to ensure the coherence of legislation and to promote uniform case-law through appropriate technical changes, adjustments and clarifications. It is the responsibility of all democratic states to provide clear guidance to citizens as to which forums, whether civil or criminal, they will be able to enforce, and on what basis. Dear fellow Members, The Fundamental Law states that,, everyone has the right to judge any charge against him or his rights and obligations in a case by an independent and impartial court set up by law at a fair and public hearing within a reasonable time. This was one of the points of debate in the previous bill, within a reasonable time. The Fundamental Law is also about what the judicial system should be like. It is in the common interest of all of us that our legal system, based on national traditional foundations, can take a few decades out of this traditional system and form a logical unity, and that we have coherent legislation. The need to adapt other criminal law laws to the terminology used by the new Code of Procedure has arisen in the application of the new Law on Criminal Procedure. The new law on criminal proceedings has renamed, amended or re-regulated certain legal institutions that we have known differently. It also introduced regulatory innovations at certain stages of the procedure. I would like to point out that the new code aims to regulate the course of criminal liability, according to a more modern, more thoughtful system. I would like to give some examples. Most of these have already been presented to us by the Secretary of State, so only in hits, as they say. New use of the term before the lodging of the indictment is replaced by a uniform transfer of the designation before and after the indictment. In some cases, a system-wide modification of the coercive measure, in others, the implementation of dogmatic clarification, here are pre-trial detention, forced medical treatment names. The new Be. has made the provisions of the private prosecution more logical and regulates the various forms of court decisions and the concept of legal force in a more thought-out system than before. You've already spoken about the fundamental law, Secretary of State. We support the foundation of the Constitutional Court's scholarship; this is the Tamás Lábády scholarship programme named after the very famous constitutional judge. This would be important for the future, as participants can expand their professional knowledge in prestigious foreign institutions, constitutional courts and courts with work and research experience. The Secretary of State also spoke about the amendment of the Btk. regarding the misuse of classified information. The point here is that it is not expected that a person who abuses classified information should make a self-arraignment; this would be a very strange situation, so we will return to the previous regulation in this case. We have EU legal harmonisation tasks, for example, with regard to detention. Compensation has already been mentioned today. The bill clarifies the ways in which compensation is paid in Bvtv. [[21.30]] The Secretary of State has also spoken for a longer time about the provisions of conditional release, which make it clear that he is examining not only behaviour during imprisonment, but also the crime committed, the punishment imposed, so a complex investigation will then be carried out by the court. I would ask the honourable Members to be able to adapt as soon as possible to the new regulatory framework, to support the proposed bill for the sake of uniform practice. Thank you for your attention. [[Dr. Pál Völner and Dr. Imre Vejkey applaud.]]
u2018-10-30-236	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Gábor Staudt, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2018-10-30-237	Mr. President, thank you. I would like to comment very briefly. We will wait for the amendments, because we can always see at the end exactly what we are voting on. Indeed, most of the technical amendments are included in the proposal before us. I would point out, however, that the Constitutional Court's scholarship is absolutely eligible, but it is not certain that it belongs in this proposal, in the various technical and codification proposals for criminal proceedings and criminal law rules. Speaking of Tamás Lábády, who was an excellent lawyer, he may not be pleased to see his name in such a salad proposal, a proposal for a technical salad in criminal law, as in the law of the creation of an otherwise noble constitutional scholarship programme. Actually, what I would like to draw attention to and underline is that we are pleased that anyone can now press charges in the event of a breach of classified information. However, it is regrettable that it has been necessary to wait until now for the Constitutional Court to do so. By the way, when this was adopted, perhaps it was in 2009, when the Law on classified information was amended, already as a party outside Jobbik Parliament, and in addition to a lot of objections, this was one of the things that he said was that the misuse of classified information would be virtually impossible in the future. After all, if only the person who will reject the rating and all other charges will be able to file a complaint, then how do we expect the rating to press charges against itself? In fact, to go further, obviously, if someone else has done so, they can do so, but in the event that the rating does it, they will be foolish to press charges against themselves. And this also meant what we have seen in many cases, for example, on the part of some pro-government representatives, that they had come out of the meeting of the National Security Committee, and that they had heard at the meeting, as is the case, that classified information was presented to the press; or that it was difficult to verify the truth of the statements by the press in this case, as has been said or distorted. In fact, the person who was there from the opposition could not have done too much, since he could not have denied or confirmed it, as he would have committed the abuse of classified information. Now, if this had happened on the part of a pro-government representative, then the rating obviously did not press charges, if a opposition representative had done the same, then the complaint would have been made immediately for a tenth of that. So we are very pleased that this proposal is finally being introduced, and this will mean that if we stick to the example mentioned above, that anyone who, let us say, after the meeting of the National Security Committee has distorted, misleading or even made public classified information, whether it is a pro-government representative, can expect a complaint to be filed against it. Another thing is how much the D.A.'s work can be checked and how much their responsibility will actually be established. But let's not go so far, the point is that the complaint alone will be possible, and the investigating authorities will not throw it back by saying it didn't come from the rightful person. We'll see how this is going to work in practice, as I said. This is definitely a very old, almost ten-year-old omission of the Hungarian Parliament. Thank you. [[Hungarian Zoltán applauds.]]
u2018-10-30-238	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2018-10-30-239	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/2934 on the amendment of certain criminal law and other related laws. Legislative proposal No.3 contains technical amendments, in particular the 2017 XC. Law, that is, the new Be. on the one hand, and on the other, on the other, on the clarification of legal interpretation issues in the application of the law, and, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the basis of provisions which promote the most precise legislative compliance with EU requirements. In addition, the bill implements substantive amendments to a number of relevant laws in order to comply with the provisions of the Constitutional Court's decision. Ladies and Gentlemen, T/2934. The aim of the bill is to ensure coherence and to promote effective application of the law. To this end, on the one hand, the bill amends the 2011 CLI on the Constitutional Court. Act, CLXI 2011 on the organisation and administration of the courts. Act CLXII of 2011 on the status and remuneration of judges. Act CLXIII of 2011 on the Prosecutor's Office Act CLXIV of 2011 on the status of the Attorney General, prosecutors and other prosecutors and on the career of the prosecutor. Act XXXVI of 2012 on Parliament Act CCXXIII of 2012 on the transitional provisions relating to the entry into force of Law C of 2012 on the Criminal Code and amending certain laws Act and finally Act CXXXIX of 2013 on the National Bank of Hungary. Law. These legislative amendments are made to Be. have been justified due to the entry into force of this Regulation. On the other hand, in order to achieve the objective of the bill, it creates the possibility for the Constitutional Court, as we have heard, to establish a scholarship. It also gives rise to the possibility for a disciplinary officer to appoint a disciplinary officer to investigate a disciplinary offence in disciplinary proceedings against the prosecutor. On the third hand, the bill provides for the possibility that in the event of suspicion of misuse of classified information, Be. in accordance with its general rules, anyone can file a complaint in the future, i.e. the restriction of the right to report will be explicitly abolished only to the body or person entitled to qualify. The bill clarifies the ways in which compensation is paid in Bvtv on a quarter basis, and Bvtv creates it. and changes the consistency between social security legislation and the provisions of conditional release. The bill amends on the fifth part CLXXXI 2012 on the exchange of information on the Schengen information system. Act CLXXX of 2012 on criminal cooperation with the Member States of the European Union. the provisions of the law. Ladies and Gentlemen, I would like to talk more about this in my speech as Chief Speaker. The most common form of classical criminal cooperation is extradition, the legal basis of which is the European Convention on Extradition signed in 1957. With the introduction of the European arrest warrant, the institution of extradition in the Union has been replaced by the institution of transfer, but traditional extradition rules have remained in place vis-à-vis third countries. In the area of EU criminal cooperation, the first real implementation of the principle of mutual recognition was the European arrest warrant established by Council Framework Decision 2002/584/JHA. [[21.40]] Ladies and Gentlemen, Member States shall ensure that the information referred to in point (a) of the first subparagraph of paragraph 1 of this Article is made available to the competent authorities of the Member States. Better compliance with EU law, simplification and strengthening the protection of fundamental rights on the part of the burdened party lie behind law and the amendment of the EU law. Member States shall ensure that the information referred to in point (a) of the first subparagraph of paragraph 1 of this Article is made available to the competent authorities of the Member States. The purpose of the change in law is partly to simplify SIS II without increasing administrative burden in addition to judicial authority control. the procedure for placing a flag in a system. In addition, major amendments to the content of both laws will be made, on the basis of which, if the European arrest warrant has been issued to the sentenced person residing in Hungary for the purpose of the execution of a prison sentence or a measure involving deprivation of liberty, but no legal assistance or enforcement decision has been received, the court may order the sentenced person to be arrested temporarily for a maximum period of 30 days. Since it is not always justified that the strictest measures should be applied, the amendment would allow temporary enforcement criminal supervision not involving the withdrawal of personal leave to be applied instead of temporary enforcement arrest. Ladies and Gentlemen, The KDNP parliamentary faction supports the bill. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-30-240	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to László Varga, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2018-10-30-241	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I myself planned to comment briefly, and the debate only inspired me at one point to argue a little longer. It's just because when you look at a salad law like this, it's beyond the fact that it has a very diverse content and it's actually an element of the Tamás Lábady Scholarship program, which I thought was wrong at first that it was here, but obviously we've seen a lot of things in a salad law, and of course this part is definitely eligible. So, in connection with one of these salad laws, you usually look at, say, man, or specifically in the faction, with background experts, what directions are in it, let's say, the correction of the codification errors of the law on criminal proceedings in connection with this proposal is a decisive aspect. Obviously, in this context, the individual factions decided in some way when the House originally adopted this legislation, and then it can be considered whether one of these substances improves as much as the legislation to change the faction's decision at that time, or, say, decide the same way as it did then. There has obviously been a lot of clarification here, there is a lot of conceptual clarification in the proposal, and Parliament also has a failure to comply with the constitution, here in relation to the regulation of the abuse of classified data. Of course, it is nonsense that the data rating itself could only be reported, so the regulation returns to previous practice. So there are a lot of elements in it that correct codification inaccuracies, which, in this sense, contain technical amendments, and may even be seen as progress. I was inspired by the live-word amendment to Mr Secretary of State in one respect, as the proposal also contains a great deal of things in relation to conditional freedom, and here the lead speaker of Fidesz also refers to a complex investigation being carried out here for them, with regard to the aspects to be considered, the aim is to strengthen legal certainty in this respect, such things have been said. However, in contrast to conditional leave, as an argument, the overcrowding of prisons was mentioned here in the introduction. I don't think that's necessarily lucky. In this regard, I think it is objective and should be examined in accordance with the sentence that has been served, whether it has achieved its purpose, I might add. Speaking of which, in this particular case, I cannot argue that I am from Borsod County, and in recent years you have also promised very serious prison development programmes, including the city of Ozd in the county, and then you cannot hear more about where you are. So who meets the conditions for granting conditional leave and how, it is one thing, otherwise prisons are overcrowded, it may be necessary and there is also the need to build new prisons, and this should also have budgetary implications. So I think there's no reason to confuse the two. And what I really don't want is, let's just say, a kind of conditional release dumping, of course, I know that it doesn't depend on whether or not we're accepting this now, but it's certainly not the way to alleviate the overcrowding of prisons by releasing some of the criminals there. So I would certainly like to suggest this for consideration, that at least at the level of the argument system it should be corrected. Obviously, as before, of course, the correction of the legislative harmonisation proposals and partly of the proposals that were problematic, and we have drawn attention earlier, have reached the point that we will fully support this, we will obviously discuss this with our faction. I think that there are forward-looking provisions in one of these salad laws, but the nature of the salad itself obviously makes the decision complex, which we will also make subject to the amendments. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-10-30-242	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2018-10-30-243	Thank you very much. Dear House, To a large extent, the proposal contains clarifications that bring about consistency with the new text of the Criminal Procedure Act. It is difficult to object to this; it is only possible to suggest why it was necessary to wait for the new law to come into force, why it could not have been settled earlier, because it was well known what the legal text was adopted, that the government could have worked on this a little more diligently, or even at the same time with Be. itself, but this thing does not change much. However, there are some points, and I would like to list them now, which are a cause for concern, hidden with intent or unwittingly among other paragraphs of the bill. One of these is the 5th. In paragraph 2, points relating to disciplinary powers over judges and the suspension of judges. We consider that this regulation broadens the possibility of disciplinary action against judges. In particular, the point which says that a judge may be suspended even if the judge impedes the finding of the facts is of concern. We see this as rather subjective; moreover, it should not be forgotten that this right is in the hands of the prosecution, the right to initiate proceedings is already known, and this raises concerns as to whether judicial independence should not be put at risk from this side as well. I do not know about such a case, but I do not want us to talk here in Parliament about having concerns about it. The second point is the legislation relating to the Public Prosecutor's Law, which also allows the Public Prosecutor's Office to collect confidential data and to participate in the preparatory phase. We generally consider the institution of the preparatory phase to be extremely concerned, especially in the very extensive way that this is happening, or what the Be is doing. Each pre-filled pen contains: From this point of view, we are particularly concerned that the prosecutor's office is also involved here. Obviously, the D.A. has not earned public confidence in the past period, so we do not find this kind of solution particularly comforting. We find it particularly problematic and do not find sufficient justification that the amendment of Article 9 of the Public Prosecutor's Law is also an amendment to the State's Law. The scope of access, the scope of the documents to which prosecutors may consult, including, inter alia, conjugal and partnership contracts or, by the way, a guarantee register, is increased. So the prosecutor's authority is continuing to increase, and the power that the prosecutor's office is now showing up is becoming even more uncontrollable. [[21.50]] Finally, my personal favourite is the amendment to the European arrest warrant, mentioned by you, particularly in detail by President Vejkey. In fact, it is a question of building a loophole that allows the execution of these arrest warrants, in essence, to be waived on the basis of free discretion. I could name the high authority and the company leader close to the government for whom this is happening, but there may be others, you have information about other procedures, and you would like to have a guarantee against that already in advance. We don't see that as a fortunate solution. So in conclusion, I can say that although much of the bill is technical, there are some points that we will not be able to support. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-10-30-244	Thank you very much, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I'm asking if anyone would like to comment on the debate. [[No signal.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed and I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary.
u2018-10-30-245	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Although too many questions have not been raised, I would just like to clarify that these amendments are practically intended to guide the terminology of criminal proceedings. So it would be difficult to take account of such a legislative failure in this case, since the new Be came into force only from 1 July, and in fact the parliamentary session has just begun in the autumn, so we were able to get here before the House at the earliest time. I agree with my fellow Member, László Varga, that if the aim of granting conditional leave was to reduce prison congestion, it would be a faulty goal; this can only be a demonstrable result of a more thorough consideration of this legal institution and its application in court. Disciplinary powers, which we are talking about, are in practice being considered within bodies, so the judicial disciplinary board is operated within the courts. This has already been the case, but these will only be clarified. Mr Arató had commented on the secret data collection. At the time of the adoption of the Code of Criminal Procedure in the spring, everyone at expert level could conclude that the use of concealed tools, the guarantee level of secret data collection, had increased, since either the prosecutor's or the link to the court's permit, which oversees the police during the police investigation phase, limited, incorporated higher guarantee elements, and all the rules on criminal proceedings were included in the Criminal Procedure Act. Previously, these were indicated in various places, in the law on services, police law and other places, and I'm telling you, warranty levels have certainly increased. So, overall, I think that both the law on criminal proceedings and the details contained in the amendments are actually intended to strengthen the rule of law. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-30-246	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The amendments may be submitted on Monday 5 November at 4 p.m. We now have a general debate on the bill to amend certain laws on the subject of justice until closure. The government referral is T/2936. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
u2018-10-30-247	Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill before you includes, in addition to the amendment of the Law on Lawyer Activities, the amendment of other laws on judicial matters. Allow me to briefly present the amendments made by the bill. The Law on Lawyer Activities for the Renewal of Lawyers has established a uniform, effective and modern regulation with guarantee provisions, further strengthening citizens' trust in justice. Following the entry into force of the law, the practical needs and the experience of the Hungarian Bar Association made it clear that, in order to standardise the application of the law, it is necessary to clarify to a lesser extent the existing rules. The amendment of the law clarifies the rules on the obligation to identify. According to this, electronic data request is mandatory in the event of a countersignment of the documents on which the public register is based, but the request for data should be completed once within 30 days. The detailed rules of the electronic document countersignation are also added. The amendment also alleviates the restriction in the context of legal representation and the provision of protection in criminal matters. General legislation on chamber counsellors is supplemented on several points in order to ensure the effective functioning of legal advisory integration and to take into account practical experience. The amendment provides the chamber counsel of the employee representative organisation with the power of attorney from the organisation to fully represent its members in labour and public service proceedings. It also affects the regulation of the employment relationship of the Chamber Counselor with several employers, which should be limited to employers belonging to one group of companies. The amendment of the legislation also provides that the Chamber Counselor is to be instructed to deal with the specific case only by the client, regardless of the different exercise of the employer's rights. It gives the Government the power to lay down specific rules for electronic communications in the light of the specifics of the operation of chamber lawyers. In order to ensure the continued provision of legal services, the provisions relating to the lawyer's office are supplemented by the auxiliary rules governing membership of property and termination without legal successor. Provisions relating to disciplinary action are also clarified. In order to ensure the consistency of the legal system, other amendments of a coherence and wording character related to the Law on Lawyer Activities, as well as technical repeals, can be found in the bill. Following amendments to the activities of lawyers, it is appropriate to notify the amendment of the Law on the Prevention and Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing, which aims to bring about consistency between this law and the legislation on the activities of lawyers. The amendment extends the supervisory powers of the Chamber of Lawyers to the trust trust activity carried out in the context of a lawyer's activity, but also subject to the law cited, if it is exercised by a lawyer. Dear Parliament, Allow me, after presenting the new rules on the Law on Lawyer Activities, to convert to the section of the bill, which includes other amendments to the law on judicial matters, and briefly give an overview of their main content. The amendment to the bankruptcy and winding-up law lays down in particular additional rules for winding-up bodies and also provides some necessary clarifications for winding-up proceedings in order to standardise the case law. By supplementing Act I of 1992 on Cooperatives and the Act on Temporary Rules with a new transitional rule, the bill remedys the fundamental law of the Constitutional Court in relation to compensation land auction. The amendment of the law on judicial enforcement became necessary to ensure coherence within the legal system in the context of the Government Decree on the rules for the issue and use of the Széchenyi Recreation Card, the Law on the circulation of agricultural and forestry land and the Law on enforcement procedures to be implemented by the tax authority. On the basis of the enforcement comments and feedback, the bill also clarifies the rules on the imposition of enforcement of joint ownership, the annulment of the allocation plan by a court, and the conflicts of interest of executives. In order to ensure uniform case-law, it has become necessary to review the orders to be taken in the course of the judicial enforcement procedure in order to ensure the right of appeal. The bill before you also amends the law on the aid to victims of crime and the law on state compensation. The aim of this is to bring about harmonisation of laws. With effect from 31 December 2018, pro futuro annulled the sanction of the law on company disclosure, court proceedings and winding-up in the forced cancellation procedure, the provision of the ban. The Constitutional Court expects the legislator to take a new approach to the legal institution of the ban. As an integral part of forced cancellation, the prohibition is a proven and effective legal institution and a judicial sanction measure. Therefore, in the re-regulation of the legal institution, it is a priority that the prohibition should not depart from the compulsory cancellation procedure, but that the conditions imposed by the Constitutional Court should be ensured in this procedure. In Hungarian law, the succession decree will apply from 17 August 2015, the domestic application of which is served, inter alia, by certain provisions of the Law on the Legendary Procedure. On the basis of the practical experience gained since the entry into force of the regulation and the additional domestic legislative provisions, it was necessary to revise the relevant provisions of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on This amendment to the Act aims at making the European Certificate of Succession previously introduced by the Regulation more effective. It shall also re-regulate the institution of the probate procedural certificate in order to enable the interested party in other proceedings to justify the date on which the succession proceedings concerning the deceased or the proceedings for issuing an ongoing certificate of succession were initiated before the notary. [[22.00]] Among the legacy rules, the bill introduces the certificate of succession as a new legal institution. This can be done when the succession case is not governed by the jurisdiction of any EU Member State, but it is in the legal interest of the person concerned in the succession to justify the succession order under Hungarian law to the authorities of the third State concerned. Consequently, the new Certificate of Succession only promotes enforcement in third States. It therefore does not conflict with the rules of the EU Regulation and does not prejudice the uniform EU jurisdiction. I ask this House, with its votes in favour, to contribute to the adoption of the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-30-248	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor first to Zoltán Kovács, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-10-30-249	Dear fellow Members, Mr President, An important part of the 2936th bill before us is that it was drawn up on the basis of feedback from the profession, so there was a discussion based on experience. The experience of the law in force since 2017 and the legal community has partly inspired the Hungarian Bar Association, and partly the Ministry, to incorporate the experience so far into this bill. The sum of this consultation is actually summarised in the bill to be discussed. Dear fellow Members, We, who are involved in the work of the legislation, are interested in creating regulation that responds to practical needs and, in many cases, compromises with the profession. Many of us, too, are lawyers who have worked as lawyers before, and we have had similar thoughts about practical matters here. Dear fellow Members, In addition to some obligations to harmonise legislation, I would like to draw attention to the main issues that are set out in the bill: one of the issues relating to legal representation and the provision of protection in criminal matters. It was a restrictive rule before, which makes clear to the successor that in the five years prior to the termination of the legal relationship, the practicer of the legal profession took part in the exercise of the powers, which clarifies this restrictive rule. It clarifies the rules requiring lawyers to be identified, clarifying how electronic data requests should be made in order to ensure the security of legal transactions; the right of chamber lawyers, employees' representatives and bodies; how legal representation in labour public service proceedings should be carried out, the possibility of electronic contact; it is appropriate to limit the employment of chamber counsellors with several employers to employers belonging to a group of companies. The bill also reflects a change in legislation concerning the representation of the Hungarian State. A small amount of clarification concerns disciplinary procedural rules, which is what the Secretary of State has spoken about; it is also part of the legal office's asset resolution process. The amendment of the law on the prevention and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing is also included in the proposal, as is the amendment of the law on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings. It lays down additional rules for winding-up bodies and also provides some clarifications that are absolutely necessary to standardise the case law. As regards the cooperative law, according to the Constitutional Court's view, the legislator did not regulate the possibility of exercising the right of purchase laid down in the law on partial compensation for damage caused by the State to the property of its citizens in all cases where, at the time of the entry into force of the amendment, the land fund was in the process of being designated. The law on the enforcement of the courts will be amended and the implementing rules for the abolition of common property will be clarified. Enforcement as a claim for money is necessary and not as a specific act. The Vht. It lays down an appeal procedure pursuant to which, in the case of an order in respect of succession, a separate appeal may be made against an order in respect of termination and restriction of enforcement and an order in respect of an insurance measure. It ensures harmonisation of laws, compliance with Article 10 of Council Directive EC, amends the law on company disclosure, court proceedings and winding-up, reviews and clarifies the compulsory cancellation procedure on the basis of the AB decision. This would have been an exceptional rule, and it was slowly becoming such a general rule. Amendment of the Act on Individual Entrepreneurs and Individual Company, the new Ákr. In order to ensure consistency with the General Administrative Regulation Act, the amendment of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the European Union, the European Parliament and the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council, the European Parliament and of the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the This will make it easier for those interested in succession to proceed with the succession procedure. Ladies and Gentlemen, So there are a number of laws that this bill has been tabled. I think that these are technical, but they are important, the range of lawyers and lawyers, and they improve and promote their activities, so Fidesz supports this bill. I'm asking you to do the same. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-30-250	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt.
u2018-10-30-251	Thank you, Mr. President. I do not think that at this late hour, any of the five or six Members present may want deep legal debates, I may have miscalculated, there may be seven of us in this Chamber, and I would like to highlight two things from this proposal. I could point out more, now I'm not gonna say the positives on purpose. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: Because I already told you that.]] because, as I said, it is getting late, but I would like to underline two things in my speech. On the one hand, the passage of the bankruptcy law, the amendment on the basis of which the body leading to the list of liquidators will not be able to impose a fine for infringement behaviour over a year, which, given that this is to be calculated after the submission of the reports, will pass quite quickly, and it is not certain that the body entitled to control will reach it. So in many cases it is a form of impunity, or because of the delay in the deadline, because of the delay in learning, this can cause problems. Moreover, as I said, learning does not mean learning about the irregularity committed here, but a year goes by from the time the report is submitted, which does not mean that it can be established immediately that something has been found improperly and submitted. That's one of them. [[22.10]] The other on page 28 is 3. § then it is more accurate, in which I see that once again the government is in favour of the executives. It is not my heart to be executives, not because it is not necessary to implement it, it would not be necessary to implement it properly, in the hands of the state, but as a mandatory public task outsourced to private entrepreneurs, who are a busy, profitable business, often abusing their various powers and powers, and matters organised, summarised, separated as their wallets so that this system is not sustainable and should be taken into public hands. I would add that the government is also organizing forensic enforcement under the NAV, which would not sound bad in itself in the first place, but it is feared that this will be outsourced either by the NAV to the independent bailiffs, so the system will again act in the direction that, for much more money, the independent bailiffs will carry out these tasks, even if the State has to advance them, and even if these amounts will not be recovered afterwards, so that the benefits will remain with these executives, the independent bailiffs, the cost as we could get used to it, will remain with the State after 90 and the state. But what's in 3. What's that? 'Cause here, you could talk about executions all day long. The point is that, in the case of the auction of the common property, the main claim will be adjusted to the amount of the agreed purchase price, which means that it is not a story that, when such a common property is terminated, charges will be calculated as the execution of a specific act, which is much lower, but will be regarded as if the entire amount, i.e., say, the value of the property, was recovered as a claim for money, and that is why the executives are able to impose much higher amounts. I would add that this is probably also true in cases where, in fact, someone does not have access to, say, a sum, so it is not that they have a debt, they collect it and give it to him, but that he is only trying to achieve the elimination of a common property, so he is trying to obtain what is his, in a way that he can obtain in some way, either financially or in kind. Now, to set a much higher cost, I think that again is a benefit to the executives. As I promised, I wouldn't comment on any other details, obviously besides the positive, we would have a few or more criticisms, and I would perhaps present it to the committee. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-30-252	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2018-10-30-253	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In Hungary, as a result of the repression by total dictatorships, only XX. After a change of regime at the end of the 20th century, the legal order of law could have developed, and the legislation of the 1990s, and in particular the decisions of the Constitutional Court, strengthened the constitutional protection of the law. Lawyers today have become a legal institution that protects and guarantees fundamental rights as an essential element of the judicial system of the rule of law. Ladies and Gentlemen, T/2936 amending certain laws on judicial matters Legislative proposal No.3 amends the 2017 Lawyer Act LXXVIII. The provisions of the Act, based on the practical experience observed by the Hungarian Bar Association, which came to the surface after the entry into force of the new Law on Law on 1 January 2018. In addition to clarifying and modernising certain provisions of the Law on Lawyer Activities, the bill contains, in addition to the clarification and updating of certain provisions of the Law on Lawyer Activities, amendments that facilitate transparent and clear application of law, in particular text-focusing and coherence, and technical repeals. Ladies and Gentlemen, This bill will therefore change not only the 2017 LXXVIII on lawyer activity. LIII of 2017 on the prevention and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. Act XXXVIII of 2010 on the probate procedure. by law, eight laws in total. I do not wish to repeat the comments made by the Secretary of State, Mr Pál Völner, and by my fellow Member, Zoltán Kovács, as a keynote speaker, because I fully agree with their content. I think it is necessary to stress that the Christian democrats consider it important that public confidence in the wider administration of justice should be further strengthened, and therefore I would like to thank the Minister of Justice very much for never losing sight of this principle in the preparation and preparation of this bill amending certain laws on judicial matters. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, the KDNP parliamentary faction supports the bill, please support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-30-254	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to László Varga, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2018-10-30-255	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, As Congressman Vejkey has said before me, the salad law concerns a number of laws, some of its provisions serve to implement the decisions of the Constitutional Court, other provisions serve to harmonise the law, yet again to remove relatively new anomalies in the application of legislation, in part, as has already been said before in accordance with the otherwise legitimate needs of the lawyer's staff. I'd pick two areas, two other areas, and I wouldn't go into that late-hour rerun. First of all, in the case of the banning of the company law, the CEOs, there has been an AB decision recently, and I would like to talk about the softening of the forced cancellation and the consequences of the banning of the companies, so to speak. Nevertheless, it is advisable to allow an exemption from the ban, that is what it is about, a kind of company manager's remedy, and even to ignore the prohibition that if the company manager, the person has acted legally. It is important to stress here that this is only possible in a clear case, so this should not be a kind of blank voucher for senior officials, otherwise this would be very important, because in many cases, micro- and small business managers have been banned for banal reasons, such as not taking over NAV or other official documents, because of other administrative problems. But in many cases, this has had serious consequences for small businesses, and I could also say that they were forced to do a kind of stretching. That wasn't good at all. Of course, the original intention was also understandable, which was born to wipe out phantom and sleeper companies, but with excessive tightening, we can say that the child was poured out along with the bath water. It is therefore a good proposal for micro and small enterprises. I would like to ask one question here on the table that, in the case of companies with bad faith, such as fraud and money laundering, it would be very important not to have a tool in rehabilitating business leaders with bad faith. [[22.20]] Therefore, effective discrimination is very important, since the reduction of administrative burdens for bona fide businesses and the ban on business leaders pursuing bad faith policies are very definitely two separate things. Secondly, I would also like to refer very briefly to the provisions concerning the Law on the Law on the Probation. In connection with the succession procedure, the notary may authorise the succession interested to obtain data and documents relating to assets located abroad. That alone doesn't tell us who the notary will eventually hand over the legacy to. In this way, the proposal could actually simplify the procedure. It is not proposed to seek international legal assistance in such a case. This option has already been done in part, but this will now be the main solution, as they will remove the possibility that the notary can act on its own initiative. That is to say, the notary is, in fact, relieved of the responsibility of looking directly into the determination of the heir, but rather of the responsibility of the heir. That is, if the presumed heir can obtain evidence of his entitlement, the notary will examine it if he cannot obtain such a document, then the notary will no longer have the opportunity to investigate directly. The point of the question mark would be, on my part, that this proposal is debatable as to why the notary is relieved of the additional burden and why they actually impose additional burden on the uninformed heir in the case in question, making it difficult for him to do so. On the other hand, it makes it difficult for the notary to investigate directly to establish the authenticity of the things submitted. I would have highlighted these two areas, and I would not repeat the rest, which I originally intended. Given the salad nature of the proposal, there are a lot of eligible items in the proposal. In part, in order to implement the Constitutional Court's decisions, partly for the purpose of harmonization, and, of course, in order to eliminate anomalies in the legislation already adopted under your governance, such a salad law is so diverse that many changes are expected to be made in the coming weeks. So we're going to make our final decision in the faction. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-10-30-256	Thank you, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I'm asking if anyone would like to comment. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see any other candidates, so the general debate is closed. I give the floor to the Secretary of State as the author.
u2018-10-30-257	Thank you very much. I just want to answer one question. At the one-year clause, it is thus harmonised with the rules of procedure and the rules of procedure there. We'll obviously continue at the committee meeting. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-10-30-258	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The amendments may be submitted on Monday 5 November at 4 p.m. So we have reached the end of the discussion of today's agendas. We now have an after-the-meet speech. Hungarian Congressman Zoltán will present his message with the title "The message of the countryside."
u2018-10-30-259	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! I have already said in the first part of the speech following this agenda that I am attempting to quote from the articles on agriculture, agriculture, rural development, fisheries, forestry and beekeeping of the current period, even so that not only positive news which my fellow government Members so fondly quote to the public can be heard. That was the case two weeks ago, for example, about how the system of national trading houses collapsed and how we threw billions of public money at it. It was also mentioned that about half of the Hungarian bees could have died this season. It is also a sad fact that about 30% of development resources, and here I refer specifically to rural development resources, cannot be achieved by those who have otherwise won these funds. Just because of the delay, the costs have increased to such an extent that they are unable to make the investment, they will ultimately not be able to build what they have planned. It was also sad to hear that the production of Negro, the production of candy, which is still very popular in our country, has unfortunately gone entirely to Turkey. This virtually eliminates all forms of sweets and candy production in Győr. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Shame!]] We also mentioned the wells scandal. Let me recall a recent development in a sentence. We are talking about the backyard wells, which would have been required to notify at the end of this year, but my colleague Loránt Hegedűs and I tabled an amendment which would have pushed this deadline up to 2020. Of course, the pro-government majority did not accept this, but at least it was submitted as its own amendment a few hours later, and it was accepted, and accordingly, a little time has been gained here. As sad news, we have heard that the consumption of apples in Hungary has halved over the past ten years. Let's think of two aspects of this. On the one hand, there is a food, food safety and a health safety issue, and on the other hand, we have been over a year when a very serious apple scandal shook the country, especially in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, causing a lot of farmers problems because they were willing to take over the apple well below the cost price. Then there is news that I have certainly not analyzed in the same way with my fellow pro-government Members. And here I am thinking that Lőrinc Mészáros has now joined the wheat processing industry with serious interests. This may be good news for you, and I did not translate it in this way with those involved in the sector, not even because we are slowly on the agricultural side, that it will not be a good thing if a sector goes too well, that they may gain too much profit in the given year, because then they will have to be terrified of which government player or business group close to it will want to go in there. It is also worth talking about the loss of the pálinka-freedom fight, because the Hungarian people have been cheated very badly here. During the negotiations prior to our accession to the European Union, neither the socioliberal governments nor the Fidesz considered the tradition and culture of Hungarian pálinka cooking as an exception, so they could not think of the European Union itself, and we did not receive immunity in this form, and this drink came into the same category as any burnt alcohol. The result was that there was virtually no legal opportunity for someone to cook brandy at home. Then, in 2010, the Fidesz-KDNP government made a unilateral change, which, of course, we supported, because we also believe that Hungarian people have the right to do so. However, he forgot to inform them that the Fidesz authorities would certainly have the consequences, because we did not ask for the exception at the time of joining, we did not ask that the brandy should not belong to the classic industrial spirits category. In such a way, the exceptional situation of cooking at home and enjoying excise duty exemption is not sustainable. A lot of people started buying appliances and training at home by having to back off later and doing this activity illegally again at home, or they are now creating additional costs. It would have been more fair to clarify this in advance and to define the conditions. I got this far today, and I'll pick it up next week. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt applauds.]]
u2018-10-30-260	Thank you, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its meeting at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed.
