u2015-05-29-0	Ladies and gentlemen, We'll start our work today. I will open the 34th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs and László Földi will help me. I also welcome those present who are monitoring our work today. The draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2016 and the general discussion and conclusion of the submission of the opinion of the State Court of Auditors follow. The bill is T/4730. Opinion of the State Audit Office T/4730/5. can be found on the label. Dear Parliament, I would like to remind you that the Parliament has decided to negotiate the proposal within a 30-hour timeframe. The agenda recommendation shall be appended to the allocation of timeframes. I would ask Mrs Loránt Hegedűs to explain the distribution of the time frame available today for the factions.
u2015-05-29-1	Dear Parliament, Today, the 10-hour timeframe is divided into 207 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 93 minutes for the KDNP Group, 114 minutes for the MSZP Group, 103 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 61 minutes for the LMP Group and 22 minutes for the independent Members.
u2015-05-29-2	Dear Parliament, The debate will continue today with a voice from the factions, the independent representatives and the minority committee. I would like to draw your attention to the possibility of proposing amendments by 16:00 today. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing. Thus, Kristóf Szatmáry, on behalf of Fidesz, can give his speech.
u2015-05-29-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I have doubts about the use of timeframes, but let me begin by saying a few words about next year's budget for businesses, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. Many things have been said about the budget evaluation, but however we try to assess the budget for a given year, we can basically interpret it in processes and trends. That is why it is important to talk about how we got to the budget that the Parliament is discussing here today. We know, five years ago, in 2010, Hungary was in a completely different economic policy situation. Perhaps a little beyond the official part: yesterday I had a foreign guest with whom we talked about the affairs of the two countries, also about Hungary. It was suggested that Hungary was once on the same level as Greece in 2008-2009, and this was clearly seen from the figures. In addition to some praise and incomprehensibility, I was asked how, in five years, Hungary could be the best country in Europe with a special economic policy, slightly different from mainstream, while Greece, unfortunately, follows the policies of the Union and the International Monetary Fund most closely, remains on the brink of bankruptcy, if it is no longer quite there at the moment. And indeed, during the budget debate over the last five years, this comes up all the time. If we look at the steps that underpin the 2016 budget, we must say that 2010-2011 was essentially a year of consolidation in all respects, especially in financial matters. During this period the stabilisation and restructuring of the Hungarian economy and public finances began. This was followed by two years, if possible to divide up the period left behind, 2012-2013, which can best be described as a period of economic stabilisation. The main feature of this is that, in essence, the budget deficit was below and remained below 3 per cent, and the debt was on a downward path. All of this, by the fact that the Hungarian State has begun to increase the state's wealth along a well-described economic policy. In addition, consolidation and stabilisation have been combined in order to reduce the tax burden on labour gradually, to reduce the tax burden on small businesses and families and thus to provide for a fairer public burden on consumption and banks, as well as the special taxation of multinational companies able to carry significant profits out of the country. This was done in favour of the need to develop a work-based and performance-oriented society, which was necessary only if we look at the budget from the point of view of businesses, because what would be the most characteristic of businesses, such as a lot of work and, basically, maximizing performance. After all, an enterprise is successful if the owners, executives, and previous processes try to improve, drive themselves and their own business to greater performance. Based on the comprehensive package of measures introduced in 2012, which included measures such as programmes to strengthen entrepreneurship among young people and women, as well as the ability of economic policy in the first place to strengthen entrepreneurship, which suggests to the Hungarian society, the Hungarian entrepreneurial layer that, unlike the previous ones, perhaps the government sees them differently, not just as taxpayers, not only as a milk cow, but also as actors in the Hungarian economy that all countries need in terms of healthy development: this is the domestic entrepreneurship sector. In this context, for example, new taxes have been introduced from the beginning of 2013 which, in a manner of speaking, have led to a breakthrough in previous debates, such as the issue of specific taxation. I remember well from an earlier period that there were infertile debates here in Parliament about whether such taxation could be introduced in the European Union. I have been involved in more debates where Switzerland was mentioned at the time than where there is such a tax, and it has been added that it is not possible to introduce such a tax. But fortunately, this form was found by the government at the time. With its specific tax, the taxpayer primarily offered companies providing services to the general public a new form of taxation which has now been used by tens of thousands of entrepreneurs. [[8.10]] It is also possible to mention the excellent opportunities for small business tax, which, by the way, encouraged domestic family and small businesses to invest and increase employment. Of course, it is not only worth approaching from the tax side if we want to look at the budget from an entrepreneurial point of view. Perhaps the most important and the greatest demand on the part of businesses, given the current budgets, was the two characteristics of how stable and predictable a budget was. Although I did not include 2014-15 here with a kind of economic perspective, but if it is possible to talk about the fact that after the period of consolidation and stabilisation, we may be living in a period of predictability and stability, which is certainly obvious at the hearing of the budget, we have a budget that is perhaps the last, I don't know, 15-20 years' shortest budget, which means in Hungarian that it contains relatively few tax adjustments, and what is special is that what it contains is almost exclusively positive for businesses and the population. So if there is one thing to say: such a budget, such a short, stable budget is expected and, by the way, domestic businesses are waiting for the right business environment to be designed for themselves. And not least, this budget is not only short, but the balance that it once established around 2011-12 - that revenue and expenditure result in a deficit below 3 per cent; otherwise, one of the best deficits in Europe, with a reduction in debt - also means that businesses should not be too afraid of what many times before 2010, even by mid-year tax increases and mid-term budget changes, have threatened the planned entrepreneurial plans. It can be said that the government has been working to ensure stability since the formation of the civilian government. Most importantly, stability with regard to domestic businesses - as, of course, despite all efforts, domestic businesses continue to operate predominantly on the domestic market and earn their income from it - is the surest stability beyond tax laws if they are sure that their customers will have the resources to buy the services and other goods provided by entrepreneurs. In this respect, it is very important how much money people have left, and in this respect, it is good news that is included in the current budget. But there may also be a point in this budget - if my fellow Members allow me to jump back to taxes - which, although there has not been much debate, is still a very important element of the current budget, i.e. the fact that corporate income tax remains two-key. We know that, based on a previous international commitment, the very favourable tax option from this year is that, up to a tax base of HUF 500 million, businesses would only have to pay a profit tax of 10 per cent, it would have ended this year. Here, in part, during the negotiations of the Group and partly the Ministry of Economy, we indicated that the Hungarian economic situation continues - and I say that at all times - to demand that we try to help our domestic entrepreneurs positively. This follows from the fact that most companies in Hungary expect revenues below HUF 500 million or a tax base, which means that the majority of Hungarian businesses, more than 90 percent, will still have to expect a corporate tax rate of 10 percent in the next year; while the otherwise not too high 19 percent will have to be paid to those companies that have the possibility of exceeding HUF 500 million. This measure was already one of the first measures of the government after 2010, but this contributed to the ability of Hungarian companies to calculate tens of billions of forints of investment, resulting in more jobs, improvements and increased competitiveness. In recent years, however, the biggest change for small and medium-sized enterprises may have been a positive shift in the financing situation. It may be worth recalling to my fellow Member that there were serious debates, even in 2008, 2009 but even in the period after that, when the central bank base rate was well above 10%, whether Hungarian businesses are not engaged because the high interest rate with which banks provide loans to them is simply incalculable, or if they simply do not have plans. I still remember certain economic analyses that were fundamentally critical of the government's policy, and which were about the fact that Hungarian entrepreneurs do not undertake because they have high interest rates, but because they simply have so much potential. Fortunately, the latter has not come true, and the fact that the economic policies of the central bank and the government have turned in the same direction in recent years has led to the fact that today, in Hungary, it is really possible to raise funds for businesses at an interest rate that is worth starting new investments, it is worth thinking about improvements, it is worthwhile for companies to look at how they can expand either jobs or production capacities. I think that the debate has also decided whether Hungarian businesses have an entrepreneurial mood, because the expansion of investment in the last few years has shown very impressive figures and partly underpins the economic growth on which this budget is based. If you allow me to return to the period of economic stabilisation, it is very important and very important to stress that by reducing the deficit below 3 per cent, a new fiscal trend has become possible, perhaps simply by leaving more money to people. The continuation of this and the conviction that it is successful is no better than the fact that next year's budget, with at least 2-3 measures, serves the purpose of giving back the growing Hungarian economic performance not simply by means of a redistribution of government, but by the simplest way, now even considering cutting red tape, if these resources are left to the people by the government through tax policy and the budget. Perhaps the most important parts of this are the reduction of personal income tax and the increase in the amount of family tax incentives. After all, this will allow a family of two children with average earnings to earn up to HUF 116 thousand more next year. During the four years after 2016, the benefits of parents who have two children will essentially double. The increase in household consumption, as I said, is essential and is the basis for the growth potential of domestic businesses. This is, of course, supported by other trends - I am thinking essentially of the low oil price and the moderate inflation environment, although, in the context of a moderate inflation environment, the government's results of the reduction of overhead costs are also crucially taken into account. But also the consumption of households can be strengthened by a favourable labour market trend, as well as the foreign exchange saving package worth HUF 1 000 billion this year. [[8.20]] Moreover, the growth of the Hungarian economy can continue this year and next year, following the excellent performance of last year. Another important factor on the part of this business will be that, thanks to previous successful negotiations, around HUF 1200 billion of EU funds will arrive in Hungary, taking into account the planning period 2014-20. We can also appreciate, after a long discussion and perhaps as a success, that the Government has successfully defended in Brussels its previous plan to devote at least 60% of this amount to economic development and job creation. As a comparison, in the previous period, i.e. in the seven-year cycle before 2014, around 15-20 percent of the total EU funding was directly invested in economic development, which, if compared to the size of the total amount available to Hungary in terms of the overall framework, is likely to offer domestic businesses 60 percent of those who could not start their investments even within the framework of the low-interest credit programmes launched by the National Bank, for, say, part of themselves or for other reasons, possibly with the help of these resources, even their plans in the account. By the way, the important commitment that this resource should go to economic development certainly gives us the prospect of a further expansion of investment in the period ahead. Moreover, a number of other measures, which do not appear directly from the budget or from the related tax and other laws, are also, as a matter of fact, important to ensure that businesses have access to EU funds as efficiently and as quickly as possible. Overall, Hungary's performance is therefore moving in a positive direction, and this trend can be further strengthened in recent years thanks to a relatively large number of policy measures in other areas affecting economic policy. The main objective of the complete development of businesses can, of course, be to help, increase the income-generating capacity of medium-sized and small businesses with growth potential, primarily in domestic families, and to strengthen their position in the market both at home and hopefully abroad, and to this end, the current budget, the tax laws submitted to the budget, taking into account the economic potential of the country, provide maximum support in our opinion. With this in mind, of course, once again highlighting that the main positive features of the budget in terms of business are predictability and stability, and the fact that it leaves more money to people, thus keeping consumption at a further high level, in view of which, for our part and for domestic businesses, it is certainly to be welcomed by the bill, the budget and the related laws, and we would also ask our fellow Members to support the budget with regard to these arguments, which are important for domestic businesses. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-29-4	I now give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Gőgös, on behalf of the MSZP.
u2015-05-29-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I have a brief reaction to Kristóf Szatmáry's comment. First of all, I have heard the same thing about twelve or thirteen times, I sat through the debate yesterday, and it would be good to clarify this situation in 2010. I can talk to the Prime Minister about whether you're not telling the truth or he wasn't telling the truth. He went to Brussels by thanking the Bajnai government for its work and said that he had taken over the government in a very good condition. Then they started looking for skeletons feverishly, and then they couldn't find one, and now they're referring to the need for predictable policies. No one in this country has done a tax increase going backwards outside the Fidesz government! Not just any tax increase, but, for example, in November, large telecom companies learned that they would have to pay billions of dollars of taxes going back to January. So I think it's better this way if you're a little more modest. Beware of this Greek case, though no one will take what they say seriously now, but unfortunately Lajos Kósa and Szijjárto were taken seriously by the markets and destroyed the forint in three days. Now, be careful with that, I'll take that. Yesterday, I tried to protect the interests of the sector a little bit more passionately, with little success, but today I would also like to say a few specific things, because there was little time left for that yesterday. The first is that I do not know how serious it is to take seriously a budget that has not complied with the government decision that was taken specifically in budgetary matters in 2014. This Government decision is 1437 and it was born on 31 July 2014 because it was then decided by the Government to withdraw aid from larger areas and to set up a compensation scheme instead. Then the media was loud because it would cost HUF 210 billion to compensate for this type of compensation to help livestock sectors. In this forint, the amount of the budgets for the coming years should be included in current expenditure and income subsidies. Last year, we managed to cheat off 5 billion of them, and this year we managed to cheat off 6. So in two years, 11 billion forints of this line has been lost. I know, Mr. Secretary, you'll tell us where this is planned, we understand, but that's what's written in the government resolution, so that it can't be blocked or taken away from it. So I think we should take ourselves a little more seriously if that's what we decide. On the other hand, it seems that the EU programme 2014-20 has not been prepared, as the country still has no approved rural development programme. This can be seen from the fact that while earlier, so let's say, in 2015, - I know, last year, and there was quite a large amount of payments - there were HUF 300 billion in rural development support, and in 2016 it was only 112 billion. So this means that a year will pass from this programme, while there is some improvement in the payments of the previous one, we can see that the Prime Minister's Office will manage to write out applications that live for an hour and a half. There has not been much of an example of this, and I think there is no precedent in Europe either, so this should be taken more seriously. So it shows that where this whole system is going, they don't understand this profession, and they don't know what kind of position to put the masses of producers who expect to apply for a gardening machine, and then one day before that, they bring in the same loading machines, and from now on, there's no pennies left on those machines, for those who wanted to apply for a gardening machine. And when we say that the department doesn't stand up for the industry, they teach me that it's not their job. It's bad enough if it's not their job. I believe that the Ministry cannot let go of the sector simply because it has remained a minority in a debate about who manages EU funds. Or if you let him go, there's no need for this department. The second is that from this budget, who looks a little bit more into it, it can also be seen that while a significant part of Europe's countries complements EU funds with 25 percent, this is 15 percent in Hungary. This withdrawal is clearly seen in the rural development register, and I fear that this will again be a competitive advantage for those countries against whom we have had a serious competitive disadvantage before, because almost 25 percent of these funds are planned everywhere. There are some confessions in the budget. It can also be seen that after the woman-beating Balogh is no longer in the system, the farm program has not been so important since then. There's been a significant decrease on that line. Of course, it's not worth turning to the fact that we're renovating a capital market where producers can sell cheaply, and I don't see them. So I think we should also pay attention to this, and even take a look at the money that was spent earlier, which, let's say, resulted in a huge amount of money being made in the village of Mr. Balogh, and all the cars that were bought with this money, what it is doing, and what kind of work is going on in the pasta factory - because I think it is nothing - so we should also pay attention to this. So the fact that this has been reduced shows that there is a serious problem with the implementation part of this. They always said it was a big deal that this government would settle undivided common property. We also said that we should be careful about this, because of course, if they tell us that it can be scaled, then the person who has 30 square meters will want to scale it. [[8.30]] I'm just saying that because it happens. We find 50-100-200 square meters of rent contracts more than once, which is a problem, but it can't be solved by wringing the country apart, because they're gonna pull it out on the first day anyway. From this it is clear - and now the government has taken me back from this great zeal - that those who apply to use it must measure their lands. 'Cause that's not a question, they have to be measured. I think it's a better way - and I recommend it to the Secretary of State - of what happened back then. This source is enough to measure everyone, because from then on, you obviously have to advance it, and then there's serious intent. Then you're gonna file a claim and pay for it. This source is about enough for that. But then let's not say that we will solve the one and a half million hectares of undivided common property, because if we really wanted to measure everyone's, that would be about 30 billion forints, and I think we shouldn't really take it out of the sector right now. Looks like the national pig program was pretty short-lived, because it's already getting less resources. This is problematic because what we didn't really talk about yesterday is that the sector is in very serious trouble. They can't work with the best prepared and newest pig-keeping companies with a cost of less than HUF 330-340, and the current printed European price mainly due to the Russian embargo now results in a buying-in price of around 310 forints. This means that the higher capacity will obviously persist, because various bank loans and operational constraints will cause them to produce, but even in the livestock sector where the small production rate is still around 30 per cent, there will be a huge reduction. That's probably not gonna help with the animal welfare aid for the Achoca. It may be said that in a year the pig population increased by 200,000 pieces, but I have bad news: this is about what was previously unofficially cut. Now, after 5 percent VAT, it's not worth cheating. I'm going to ask you this question again because you still don't seem to understand what's wrong. Not only do consumers have a huge problem with expensive food and the fact that our neighbours are bringing down VAT very drastically right now, but also the industry, because we have a terrible competitive disadvantage. We talked about it yesterday, we cannot trust that the EKAER will solve the problem. Just because you grab two trucks of potatoes from time to time and now you've got 8,000 liters of milk doesn't mean that's gonna be a problem. It will be resolved if this schedule continues, but not at this rate, that the goat and half the sheep were more important than the VAT reduction than, say, consumer goods, because I would like to indicate that goat cannot be bought in the store. Not even half a grace. There's no such item. That was last year. Last year, every fidesz comment mentioned half the goat and quartered beef. I've never seen anyone walk around town with a quarter of beef. No one. But a lot of people buy meat besides pork. In fact, their group leader ran right into the pipe, saying that pork was only fourth in the line of consumption; fourth, precisely because it was expensive. It's expensive for poor people. Therefore, the replacement product should be delivered at least. We will have such amendments, and I expect them to understand what the profession is saying. There's no way that pork chops will have a 20% price off just because of the VAT, say, against the chicken. You can't do that! Or if you want to solve the milk people's problem, you'd have to partially forget the levy they made on the larger capacities, because it's going to be their death. You can't take 100 billion out of a sector with the price of milk falling by 25 percent. I can't! If someone does this, they acknowledge that they have destroyed a sector, a sector where a genetic program is at least 15 years old. I would draw your attention to this very, very much. We know exactly who we grew up with, that once we get the cow out of the stable, they're not gonna take it back there. And that's also true of high capacity. Mr. Secretary of State mentioned yesterday that no one returned the land lease because milk production is in trouble. That's true, but gradually liquidating it, that's for sure. 'Cause it's gonna be worth it to him anyway. But the direction we're looking at right now is the 10,000 family estates of 500 acres. I'm just asking you, this 10,000-acre family estate outside the four-man family, who's gonna give a living to. No one. I'm telling you this now, because it's just a question of technology. That there will be no animal in any form, I will give it to anyone at any time in writing, because I see that there is no animal. Family farms do not strive to use their energy to buy and rent, to build smaller dairy farms instead of declining dairy capacities, because now this is the dream. I'm just asking you, one of what; two, who's gonna work there? When we were kids, we really hated getting up at 5:00 before we went to school. These kids hate it the same way, believe me. If this does not happen systematically in the country and we do not keep the capacities where obsessed drivers, instead of shooting all the cows in the head immediately, when there is 20 forints minus a litre of milk, it is held because at least 40-50, but there are 100 people who are given a living and cannot look them in the eye. That is why there is still milk production in Hungary. There was once such a period around 2008, there was a transitional six-month period when the price of milk was very harsh, and the only reason there was no drastic reduction was because they quickly sold a lot of follicles to Russia and somehow compensated it. Those heifers will not produce milk in Hungary. And when we talk about 8,000 litres of milk, I have to tell you again that 300 normal cows make 8,000 liters of milk without any problems. Three hundred. That is why we should take care of these capacities now and not destroy them. Because now this is happening with the law of the land and the aid policy, and it is happening specifically because they say that there is no need for the land not to be cultivated by them, but by the smaller capacities. We understand that, and if this is the result of an organic market process, it's okay, but not by ruining something that works, and I'll try to do something else instead. I can't do it! Just as it didn't work out in 90, because anyone who wanted to stay alive still survived, and the community that survived it could survive, but now it's going to complete its activity. I'm very protective of anyone coming down this road, but the problem is, he's already here. At the land law, we told you we don't need a size limit, we need an employment limit. We have proposed 25 hectares of employment, one per 25 ha of maximum useable land, and of course we include family members' own work. It was not the larger capacities that protested it, because there is still an economy where employment is 8, 10 and 20 ha. Where I studied this profession and did it for almost 30 years, there was one person per 6 ha, and he didn't work in the field. It was worth it to them to have a construction crew, a garage, a slaughterhouse, a lot more than that, just because it was an incentive system. Well, such an incentive system should be worth setting up labour-intensive sectors for existing capacities and family businesses! But that's not what's happening right now. Now it's rape-wheat barley-corn rotating, with two men 500 acres, with a big tractor. That's what it's all about. He rents out all the plant protection work and the combine. From now on, this will not create employment or even a livelihood in the countryside. That is why this budget is not good, Mr. Secretary, and I look forward to your answers. However, they should consider whether Hungarian agriculture should be destroyed on purpose. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-05-29-6	Secretary of State István Nagy asked for the floor. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-05-29-7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, At the words of Mr Zoltán Gőgös, I must say that I fully agree with him that Hungarian agriculture can only be dealt with responsibly. I can tell you with a calm heart that this is the way the Ministry of Agriculture acts. Once again, we agree that there are conceptual differences between you and your party's views on agriculture or rather on property structure, estate size and the opinion of the Fidesz-KDNP Association. The decisive difference between the two positions is what the size of the estate along which we want to make Hungarian agriculture work in the long term, and to make it sustainable in the long term. [[8.40]] From our point of view, the main thing is to ensure the livelihood of as many people as possible, so that the ownership approach, the responsibility that each family can live with in a safe, long-term, predictable way. We believe and believe that one of the depositaries of this is land ownership. There is no other means in the countryside that could provide a safe, long-term predictability for a Hungarian family than knowing how many hectares he can farm and plan his life according to the way he can plan the life he imagined. My fellow Member has raised a number of questions, let me say a few things about Government Resolution 1437. We often receive in the current budget that you miss 5 billion forints [[Zoltán Pride: No, it's working now!]] Or six that should be there. I have to say, since the adoption, we have paid a lot more money to solve agricultural problems that have not been planned at all. Let me tell you that more than 20,000 people make a living by supporting the tobacco sector. It turns out that the European Union no longer finances tobacco production, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Hungarian Government had to decide whether it is important to make a living of 20-25 thousand people in Szabolcs, where it would be terribly difficult to go elsewhere, whether it is important to be able to give these 20-25 thousand people two-handed jobs there and what would be the trigger. When we thought about this, we realized that there was no other chance, and the government provided 5 billion forints to make this happen. Here is the problem of dairy producers; my fellow Member knows that he meets this problem every day. We cannot go beyond looking for a source to try to reduce sour cream, try to extract milk from the market, dust it, make butter, and when the market will demand it, in the summer panic, when cows produce less, we can bring this excess quantity back to the market. But once again, we need resources, because we need to involve the amount of milk on the market, and we need to finance it. This wasn't planned for the budget either, so we need it. So the only two examples left are more than we're missing. So I must say to my fellow Member, if we look at what is on the line and what is on the table in reality, then reality is much more favorable and positive than what is written on that line. Let me tell you something else. We do not know - because agriculture is just like this - what the coming year will be like, but one thing I know for sure is that this government has always been there for farmers, we have never passed a problem without it being solved. The government always finds the answer, the help with which we can help farmers, because the land is a limited resource that we cannot expand, it is only necessary to preserve, and, of course, what grows in it is again a limited thing that needs to be guarded of value. Anomaly of the rural development programme. My dear fellow Member, when a European Union cycle starts, there is always a year that means the end of the other and the beginning of the new one. In such cases, it is natural that there are programs that are still running out of the previous cycle, and there are programs that are at the start and at the start. Obviously, the start-up goes with an even more modest amount of money, since it has to be written out, it has to be won, it has an administrative process while it is going on and there are clearing obligations at the end. He says it's late for accounting. We are currently in Brussels with many countries, and we are looking forward to the evaluation of this operational programme, so Hungary is not the last. I'll tell you why we're still there. Because it had to be considered, the Hungarian government had to consider exactly the form of support that the Hungarian government would like to do with the Hungarian countryside, what the priorities are that we would like to do. What other parties are asking us to account for, we are also willing to commit ourselves to 80% small economy and 20% large plant. I would very much like to say to you that what I think may be the difference between us is that I do not think that the two-sized sector can be turned against each other. So it would be a very flawed policy to look for enemy images. The two sectors, two economic sizes, must run side by side because they are one another's supporters and supporters. It cannot be that the pendulum moves only towards one of them, but that it is necessary to help each other in parallel and that it is not possible to turn the sectors against each other. Why am I telling you this? Because this emerging 80:20 percent, healthy ratio can perfectly cover the integration program that is essential for the countryside, which we would even advertise as a backyard program, which needs to be launched in order to provide new jobs and new sources of income for those living in the countryside. But what did we experience from the previous program? We set out that 80% is small and 20% is large, but the tender sources were exactly divided: 80% of the aid money went to 20 percent, and only 20 percent of the applications went to 80 percent of the small economy. Therefore, it was necessary to allow the sources of tender to move towards the sectors to be supported in proportion to the size of the land. I will also tell you that it has also had to be redesigned because the aim was specifically to support labour-intensive sectors, to meet the labour needs of the gardening and vegetable-fruit sectors, so that technological developments and modernisations in these sectors can be made that will help to bring new people into this production with new investments and new quality production. That is why, while this program has been completed, it has been transformed, it has taken time, but Hungary is not missing this. Moreover, we know very well that the money won for Hungary is not an annual breakdown, but a cycle breakdown, so the Hungarian economy will not suffer a single penny of losses. I just hope he recovers in a healthy structure. The application for gardening machines was also criticised, but a sentence contradicts each other precisely, because it says that it is written out for something that is not needed, but, for some reason, the entire tender source was requested in a very short period of time. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Because small machines have been loaded...]] So this is a contradiction that I'm sure needs to be resolved. There was a lot of waiting ahead of this proposal, and technically, I have to say, it was requested in a matter of seconds. At the same time, it is important to know that this proposal was still for residual money, so to divide the remaining funds of the previous European Union cycle, or I must say that such a quick-flowed, immediate settlement bid was used to empty this register. Obviously, there will be a great deal of resources in the gardening sectors in the coming years. The numbers of the farm program were also criticized. I have to say to you that the practical experience has brought this number, because the hunger that was meant to satisfy the farm programme seems to be falling, because, we know, we know these situations, it is difficult to spend so much billions of money on these programmes. As the years pass, obviously, who wanted to develop, invest, did, but farmhouses are not born every day new and new, so the need for reality brought this number. It's a shared undivided question. Many problems, difficult questions, I must say, have resulted in a situation limiting farming, which is still on the neck of Hungarian farmers. What I can tell you is that this program took place in Vas County, it could be logged in to this, and the lessons were learned there by everyone. [[8.50]] In the 19 counties and in the capital, there is now a district designated everywhere, so that it can be launched at the whole nationwide level. So that we can now evaluate the lessons at national level, and already in July, August, we will appoint the next districts in each county and in the capital, so that this programme can be carried out. There is HUF 7.5 billion in the budget to carry out this work. I think that's quite the amount you can make out of. The Hungarian government has set out that by the end of 2018, the person who requested it will be able to put an end to this impossible farming situation. I have a message for the Hungarian farmers in this regard. It's possible to make a full deal. Take advantage of each farmer's opportunity to fully match each other, because it is much better if they agree with each other at the table, in which order the board will go, than that it may be necessary to bear the burden of not being able to agree, and then the dice did not turn well in his case. There's an accelerated procedure for a full settlement, and there's one more advantage that the person who didn't ask for it wouldn't want it, and now he wants it. So you can do it for free. If your intention has changed since then, when it could have been claimed, you did not claim it, now yes, and it will have to be paid for, but in case of a full settlement, it will be absolutely free for everyone. National pig program. It may or may not be considered, a certain, dear fellow Member, that the fact that it is on the surface is that we can give concrete numbers is a huge advantage. So that these foods do not come from different black or grey zones, this is also an excellent thing for food quality security. But I can assure you that it is not just that, but that there is a real increase in numbers in the pig sector, because such subsidies exist. The animal welfare support for pigs in 2010 was only HUF 10 billion, and in 2016 it will be HUF 17.1 billion. The animal welfare support for pigs was HUF 8.5 billion in 2016, which was only HUF 6 billion in 2010. And the animal welfare support came in with HUF 8.6 billion. Here comes the prevention of animal diseases by HUF 8.5 billion. This was only HUF 4.5 billion in 2010, and it had to be stopped, and there is still HUF 3.6 billion in support of animal corpses, for which only HUF 1 billion was available in 2010, but it also had to be stopped due to resource exhaustion. What I think is an infinitely important thing is the support of breeding organisations, because the Ministry had to face the fact that there was no breeding book in Hungary. Do you know how they came up with it, or how they even produced breeding hooves? As a result, how many pigs were officially slaughtered at the slaughterhouse, they were allocated back to about how many breeding sows there were. It's just a joke category in a business that's how it's done. Now I can tell you that there's an organized, solid breeding book, and that's at least infinitely good. I must say that the dairy sector has also been severely criticised, but before that the sheep and goat, because they did not mention the sheep, only the goat, but let us be fair, must always say the sheep. It may not be possible to meet goat or goat, but sheep and goat cannot be separated, because goat farmers would have been very pissed off at us, so these two species of animals should always be treated together. I believe that, by starting with VAT reductions in the sheep sector, we can put on the shelf again only one thing that is excellently healthy, the Hungarian environment is excellently suited to do so, and the heart of a person is sore enough to go to the Italian French market almost completely instead of allowing Hungarian customers to access it. I very much hope that, because the sheep is a fibre consumer, we are talking about one of the healthiest meats, that it will be on the market more and more and more and more, and that it will be available in stores. Milk problem: In 2016, the dairy sector will receive a total grant of HUF 43 billion, which is 20 billion more than in 2010. The transitional national aid is HUF 12,6 billion, EU-funded production aid for milk is HUF 21 billion, EU-funded production aid for protein feed is HUF 1 billion, and dairy welfare aid is HUF 8 billion. I think that if we add that we spent 400 million forints on the school milk scheme in 2010, already 2.6 billion forints in 2016 - we know very well that customs always develop in childhood. There's a reason we're always thinking about our childhood stuff with nostalgia. From a health point of view, and I have to say that the school milk scheme is extremely important from an agricultural point of view, because future or future milk consumers will be able to be provided by those who can have access to this milk in childhood, who will like it and get used to it. Plus, since it's a full-blown drink, it's the best thing that can happen to a school kid if he drinks two-ounce milk at a break. So I think, my dear fellow Member, that we all have a responsible attitude towards Hungarian agriculture that we can face with a calm eye all the challenges. He also raised the issue of family farms and the extent of his role in Hungarian agriculture. I have to say - and obviously he also meant employment - that there is an infinitely important aspect, namely, the question of self-sufficiency. We talk about it less and less, or we talk about it quite little, even though one of the basic moments of the land, rural life, is about self-sufficiency. If you can do this at the very least cost, then the quality of life and livelihood of a family is at a very different level than, say, a city person who lives on wages and salaries from month to month and has to buy everything. So there is room for this, and I wanted to conclude here, my fellow Member, despite the conceptual difference, there is a place for a very small area in terms of self-sufficiency, there is a place for family economic size to provide the Hungarian people with a livelihood and a secure future in the countryside, and there is a place for the large economy to be a base for agricultural innovation, scientific results and higher agricultural professionals, so that investments, investments in large-scale agriculture, will be able to integrate and help with all other sectors. If we take care of this unity from its smallest player to its greatest, then I believe that it will be able to achieve a balance in Hungarian agriculture that - as already in 2015 but I hope also in 16 - will prove that the production results of Hungarian agriculture will make an excellent contribution to GDP growth in Hungary in economic terms. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-05-29-8	I now give the floor to Vice-President János Latorcai.
u2015-05-29-9	Thank you very much for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Mr. Secretary of State! Dear fellow Members, We discussed this year's 2015 budget here in Parliament just over six months ago, and here we are now standing here discussing next year's budget. Many people are trying to explain the benefits, many are trying to explain the disadvantages of this during the debate, but I still believe that this is a clear message for both our foreign partners and citizens, because it actually conveys the message that the Hungarian economy is on the right track and that the budgetary processes will become more predictable and more traceable for economic operators. [[9.00]] I believe that there is no need to dissect in greater depth what an important message this is in a world where the economic scope of countries is fundamentally influenced by the ratings of large credit rating agencies, their expectations for the future. The President of the State Court of Auditors, in his speech to Parliament and the President of the Fiscal Council, made it clear that this draft budget could, on this basis, carry out a well-founded and well-founded debate by Parliament, and this is clearly due to the continued improvement in the conditions of predictability and predictability over the last five years. In next year's draft budget, the State Audit Office considered nearly 85 percent of the tax revenue to be sound, and if someone recalls it, this figure was barely more than 50 percent during the budget debate for this year. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to some of the messages that this budget carries. It is a clear message that the government is on the side of honest citizens, honest entrepreneurs and families. I would like to support this with examples. The first and perhaps the most important is that this budget - as we have heard, and as is the result of the figures - is the budget for tax cuts. This statement may have even greater significance after an economic crisis when it was tried to correct the consequences of wrong economic policy and severe indebtedness by increasing revenue, i.e. increasing taxes. Next year, ladies and gentlemen, the personal income tax system leaves more than HUF 850 billion than people in 2010, i.e. they can spend so much more on educating their children, managing households, achieving a higher standard of living; this will certainly have an impact on the growth of consumption. This means that while loans were the engine of the economy before 2010, the expansion of consumption can now be the basis for economic growth. It has been said several times from my fellow Members that the government is moving away from Europe with this economic policy. We can and must clarify something: the government, with the economic policy solutions used, is actually using instruments, using instruments that also govern the European Union's policy and development policy. For example, the government reduces taxes on work. Many said that the 1 percent that the government reduced in the next year's budget in terms of personal income tax is limited by the importance of people's pockets. This is true, in the case of a small salary, this is minor, but overall, at national level, the impact of this on the level of consumption growth or security in society is decisive. Ladies and gentlemen, The new tax rules do not encourage anyone to hide income, as they reward decent work, not tax evasion. This also means that the economic policy steps in recent years and the budget ahead are aimed at whitening the economy. I would like to refer to the opinion of the State Court of Auditors when we examine the consequences of sound growth and the stabilisation of the tax system: in 2016, the government will not introduce new taxes, and the measures introduced to whiteen the economy, according to experts, will clearly bring the planned revenues. This message conveys to Hungarian businesses and Hungarian citizens that the government is building a country of decent work and fair competition, where economic operators do not have to fear that individual operators can gain an undue competitive advantage by tax avoidance. This was the purpose of the introduction of electronic cash registers or an electronic road traffic control system, which today also served our opposition representatives who had protested against it at the time, it is clear that they have fulfilled their expectations. It is extremely important that we can decide on a family-friendly budget that supports and values family formation. The budgets of the last few years have already included tax measures, which do not mean that childbearing is an increase in financial difficulties, resignation, deprivation. The monthly tax relief of parents with two children will continue to increase according to the new budget. Expert opinions consider this budget to be a very stable budget. It increases the security of the budget by creating for the first time a so-called chapter stability reserve for the chapters, with a combined sum of HUF 35 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, The government debt ratio will fall to 73 per cent for 2016. This is extremely important because the reduction in the sovereign debt ratio by 1 percentage point also contains a significant reserve, as the obligation laid down in the Fundamental Law can be fulfilled even with an additional HUF 300 billion increase in government debt. The deficit-to-GDP deficit target of 2 per cent, calculated according to the European Union methodology, remains about HUF 350 billion below the requirements laid down in EU and domestic legislation, i.e. legal requirements can be met even if GDP or government debt and deficit are less favourable than planned. On this basis, we can also conclude that this is a sustainable and stable budget, which is intended to ensure that the road ahead is safe and secure. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-29-10	I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Farkas of Jobbik.
u2015-05-29-11	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In the time available to me, I would like to talk more about two issues. One is the subject of emigration, which is sadly not mentioned - especially on the part of the governing parties - in this debate, even though this is the third day we are discussing the budget here. The other would be in this context and, as a result of my own Commission position, some thoughts on the situation of education, including those of higher education students. Let's start with emigration. Just because it is one of the most serious problems in Hungary, what I am not only saying, is not only said by Jobbik's faction, but also a recent survey showed that Hungarian society considers this issue to be a much bigger problem, as well as the issue of immigration. In its own way, of course, it is also serious, but the question of emigration is what everyone experiences on their own skin, in their own circle of knowledge, and everyone who thinks in the long term can see how important this problem is either in terms of demographic processes or in terms of the sustainability of our pension system or in terms of the future of Hungarian intellectuals. Unfortunately, our budget does not address this problem. We could also say that the budget will give up the Hungarians who have migrated, and what is even more serious is that the Hungarians who wish to emigrate are not taking any steps that could hold these young people back. [[9.10]] I have to repeat the alarms we've been given on our part. A few weeks ago, Tárki showed that there is a greater willingness to emigration in Hungarian society today, especially among young people, and what we really have to say is that from month to month these figures show an increase in the proportion of emigration thinkers, the proportion of foreign job planners, which is a very scary trend. That is why we need the government to deal with this and to address it in the budget, not only at the level of words, although they often do not do so, but this would be the opportunity to launch programmes in the budget that will help them bring young people who have already migrated home. A few months ago, there was an attempt, it's the. Come home, young program, let me talk about it a little bit, because there's something to talk about in this program. I have to say to myself that we were glad that this program had finally started, so the government finally confessed a few things. He admitted that these young people do not leave out of an adventure, because if these young people went out of an adventure, then you would not have felt the need to create this program, to bring it to life, because if someone went out of an adventure, as soon as he got tired of living abroad - in your mind - he would come home anyway. By launching this program, you have seen that this is not the case, what you have been saying for years is not the case. But they also saw what you said for a long time that the circumstances at home are, according to you, something that will bring the young people out there home. Now, if this were the situation at home - I must say, we do not believe that this is the case at home - then there would be no need for such a programme, and this programme was created. So at least you've been practicing some self-criticism here, and I'm also sensing that as a positive signal. The third thing they have made clear by launching this programme is that these young people need help coming home. This is a very important thing, and I am pleased that it has been pointed out with this programme: yes, these young people need an incentive system and concrete assistance to return home. We know how difficult it is today, say, for a young man in England to decide that yes, he would like to come home, find work at home, find housing, and rejoin the home environment. The launch of the programme itself is therefore a positive process, and this was indicated when this programme was launched. But what is saddening, or I might say, is ridiculous, is the size of the amount allocated to this program. You are planning this programme for a total of HUF 100 million, and you are counting on bringing home 50 of these young people, right, primarily from London, because this is the city - as the largest Hungarian city in the Western European region - and you want to bring young people home from there. And I don't have to tell you how little this 100 million forints is. In fact, you have also said that this is such an experimentation program, that you will assess how it works and then decide on the future. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that there is no experimentation here, we are talking about a problem that results in dozens or hundreds of young people leaving the country every day on a weekly basis. There is no time for experimentation here, there is no time for us to see how it works, here we have to act very urgently and decisively, and I must say that these 100 million forints and the return of 50 young people are ridiculously few. I was confident that when we planned the budget, we would see that in 2016 they would already be much larger, you could say billions of dollars, seeing that we are talking about hundreds of thousands of young people or less young people who are already in Western Europe and in other countries as economic refugees. But if you look at next year's budget lines, National Employment Nonprofit Kft. Your budget, which coordinates this. Come home with a youth programme, you will see that 272 million HUF is planned for next year. I mentioned that 100 million forints will be spent on this programme next year, 272 million forints. Now let's assume that this amount is spent solely for this purpose, so let's take the operating costs of kft. itself as zero, which is not a realistic thing, but let's do this, 272 million forints, that's enough, let's say, to bring 130-140 young people home, which, I think, is also ridiculously small. For this reason, in order to raise awareness and to bring home not one or two hundreds of young people, but thousands of young people, we can help thousands of young people come home, so the Jobbik faction has submitted through me and through some of my fellow Members an amending proposal that would specifically help this programme, to give this programme HUF 5 billion, which would be a start-up step that could really help thousands of young people. And we would also like this programme to be extended, not only to help Hungarians in London to bring home, but also to cover many more cities or even all Western European countries. In the second part of my speech, I would like to talk about our amendments to improve the situation of higher education students, just because this is an existing problem, and I have to start by saying that there are young people in Hungary who have the knowledge, have the ambition to go to university, try to get a degree, but they cannot do this, and the primary reason for this is the financial situation of the family. We also have to say that you don't have a realistic alternative to this, you have one alternative, this student loan, you can say that if you don't have money, here's your student loan, pick up, owe yourself, and then somehow, after you get your degree, try to repay it, which is not an attractive alternative, let's just say, even because a lot of people are afraid of debt, here as a result of the foreign exchange crisis. This is not an alternative that would be attractive, and in many cases young people choose not to try to go to college or college, which is a problem. A problem for the individual, because he would have had the opportunity to get a degree, to find a better job living social mobility, and that would help him rise. But it is not only a problem at this level, but also a problem at a social and country level, as it is also in Hungary's interest to have as many graduates as possible in the country, who can make our country more competitive. Therefore, it is a problem that these people do not go to higher education or, if they go, they can only obtain a degree through debt to students. Allow us to make some suggestions, which would mean helping these young people financially, because we know very well that higher education not only comes with a cost-effective training fee in many cases, but also with housing fees, textbooks and a number of other expenses that are burdensome for each family. That is why we have tabled an amendment that initiates the increase and increase of the student normative, and specifically in such a way that the government raises the amount that can be used from the student normative to study and social scholarships. Just one example: since 2008, this student normative has not been raised, so in most places study social scholarships have not increased either. Needless to say, in seven years, it would have been necessary to raise these amounts, which can be very helpful to a college youth in terms of daily spending. We would like - and this is also covered by an amending proposal - to increase note support. It is ridiculous that there are 1-2 thousand young college students, in particular, where they receive a HUF 3 000 note support for a six-month year, from which they can't even buy a single book, because nowadays a book is not 3 thousand forints, especially a textbook. As a recent memory, a few years ago, it was not uncommon to have a book of 5-6 thousand forints. So we would also like to raise your note support. We have also initiated an extension of the family allowance for higher education students to follow up on this money for families, because we also believe that it can be a great help for all families, and once again, it would make it easier for people who really cannot learn in higher education institutions. I would therefore like to ask the government, in summary, to address the issue of emigration, emigration, to adopt our proposal to amend it, and to try to help thousands of Hungarian compatriots living abroad, and also to take the steps that can improve the situation of students in higher education. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2015-05-29-12	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Bene Ildikó, on behalf of Fidesz. [[9.20]]
u2015-05-29-13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The 2016 budget is a consistent continuation of economic policy launched in 2010 as the objective is to maintain deficit positions, to further increase employment, to reduce public debt, to improve competitiveness, which in the language of figures means that economic growth is expected to be 2.5 per cent and the budget deficit to be 2 per cent, while the sovereign debt indicator is planned to fall to 73,3% of GDP. The most important element of the budget is to keep as much money as possible in the population, people and families. In 2016, the family tax system will continue to be further strengthened, in four years the benefit of parents with two children will increase gradually from HUF 10 000 per child to HUF 20 000, the promotion of marriage with tax reduction will remain, the ged extra will continue, and in 2016 the new home creation programme will be available for a full year. It is closely linked to the above that the government's aim is to ensure that everyone in Hungary who wants to work has a job and that in 2016 public employment will be available to more people, which is closely linked to other government programmes that encourage employment. A very important part of this is the job protection action, whereby the government leaves 138 billion to businesses with disadvantaged labour markets and continues to benefit from tax relief after part-time employment of parents with small children. It is important that programmes be launched to facilitate the transition from public employment to competition. In the planning period between 2014 and 20, HUF 12 000 billion of European Union funds arrive in Hungary and the aim is to translate this into development investment aid of at least 60%. It is very important to continue with the. Women's 40, pensions and pension-like benefits increase with inflation levels in 2016. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to continue with your questions on budgetary health in 2016. What are the priorities for the development of the health care system, as outlined in the Semmelweis Plan and the sectoral strategy for Healthy Hungary 2014-2020? Greater public ownership, inter-institutional cooperation, strengthening sector management, clarifying supply competences, improving basic care and strengthening outpatient care. The development of emergency care, emergency services, the expansion and harmonisation of the sector's IT system, capacity planning at national and county level, continuous monitoring and the establishment of a supply system for real needs. Continue to continue public health programmes and increase screening activity, improve knowledge and skills to promote health preservation. In order to address the human resources crisis, the policy objective is to maintain sectoral wage development and continue wage planning, to maintain and extend the residency support programme, and to develop a much more flexible and simpler system of specialist training. In this context, the introduction of central training, the operation of a single human resources monitoring system. In view of these priorities, a great deal has happened since 2010, as healthcare workers were the first to receive a wage increase in several steps, scholarship programmes were launched to halt emigration and encourage job placement in deficiency professions. It is very important that emergency care is being developed, rescue stations are being renovated, new rescue stations are being built, emergency care will be increased by HUF 2.5 billion in 2016. This means that the purchase of ambulances can continue, which means the purchase of nearly 100 ambulances. Also, further development of the rescue management system that has already started may continue. We must say that the development of basic care is also a very important health objective in 2016. We have told you about the GP system, and we hope that the GPs will also feel that their work is very important, that we have talked a lot about the role of gatekeeper in basic care, but this role is inevitable in the field of health care. The ability of practitioners to think together, to work together, to create communities of practice, to strengthen protective service, home care, is all a step that can be the basis of effective patient care and effective prevention activities. It is a very serious burden for health care that, in many cases, patients who can be treated excellently in primary care according to the rules of the profession are treated in the care of patients who are more and more expensive than inpatients. It is therefore essential to continue the programmes, to create financial opportunities that encourage young doctors to see a serious professional perspective in their professional profession. Next year's budget will provide an additional HUF 10 billion in the next phase of the development already started in 2015. Since 2012, in view of the labour crisis in the health sector, the migration of health workers, young start-up resident doctors, deficiency programmes have been launched for scholarship applications. The residency support programme will continue in 2016, additional scholarships will be launched to ensure that everyone who accepts the conditions can benefit from this, the built-in surplus will be HUF 3.74 billion. As of 1 July 2015, the employment of candidates in higher education and vocational training will be centrally implemented, the salaries of residents and statutory salary supplements will be provided in the budget of the Health Records and Training Centre. This means more than HUF 3 billion plus. Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, life expectancy at birth in our country is lower than expected for both sexes in Europe. In our country, both women and men, we can say they live on average two years shorter. Causes of death include cardiovascular diseases and cancers. It is therefore very important that further steps be taken in the field of public health. Under the 2012 Act, smoking is prohibited in public enclosed air spaces and community spaces, and obviously these warnings also appear on cigarette boxes, the public health product tax has been introduced, and we have to say that it was an outstanding step, and we were also the first in Europe to take action to reduce the consumption of trans fatty acids. Hungary was the third state in the European Union where this harmful ingredient was minimized in food. Health promotion offices started operating in the country in 2013. Fortunately, these numbers have continued to increase over the past few years. It is also important that the budget supports their operation by more than HUF 1.5 billion. These health development offices are very active, very useful and very effective, as they work together with general practitioners, local governments and civil society organisations. It is important to involve pharmacists in health development, mental health centres, protective cervical screening, screening and reporting of private health providers, colon screening programmes starting in more and more counties, all of which are very important to improve the health of the population and will determine the health status of the country not now, but decades from now. In order to increase life expectancy and health age, it is necessary that as many people take part in screening tests as possible. The importance of screening is very important. The culture of participation is important, it is important to make it a part of a health-conscious lifestyle. I consider it a priority to promote screening programmes, and I think it is very important that HPV vaccination has become mandatory, and I think it is very important to introduce daily physical education, since in the last 2-3 years we can say that the number of athletes has increased by more than 100,000 on a daily basis. These are all necessary to improve our public health indicators. It is therefore a priority in 2016 to develop public health services and to ensure the possibility of maintaining health for all age groups by developing knowledge and skills. It is important to improve the health culture of the population and to have access to public health services as widely as possible. To do this, it is very important to strengthen the general medical system and to expand the basic care services with a preventive focus. The total revenue and expenditure of the budget of the Health Insurance Fund for 2016 is 1963 billion forints, as we have been used to in recent years, and I am happy to say that it is zero and balanced. The main amounts show an increase of 2.8 percent compared to 2015. [[9.30]] In 2016, a HUF 12.8 billion extra is available in the budget for the wage development of health professionals and doctors. This means that the on-call fee and standby fee, as well as the calculation of extraordinary work and shift allowances, are based on the amount in force on 30 June 2012 in the form of an appointment or contract of employment, or the salary due on the basis of the civil servant's pay table at that time, but the regulation will ensure that the salary increase for 2012-2013 is included in the basic wage, so that it is basically leased, which is, I have to say, a legitimate request by those working in the vicinity of the sickbed. The budget provides an additional HUF 2.5 billion in support of young specialists, thus creating the possibility for specialists to receive a similar amount of support after obtaining the exam. In 2016, healthcare workers will receive HUF 53.5 billion to cover the wage increases so far. The budget sets a higher amount of HUF 800 million for supplementing the income of those who work alongside the pension. The health sector, we all know, has quite a few problems. There is a lot of work to be done to achieve the objectives set. Significant improvements, programmes are in progress, which can lead to progress, clearly strengthen the security of the functioning of the health care system and determine the development of the years to come. The budget will ensure the government's commitments to safeguard stability. Our aim is that, in line with the ever-increasing economic performance, Hungarian health care is also the 21st. It becomes a sector capable of meeting the challenges of the 20th century. The current budget cannot meet all the challenges and needs facing health, but I believe that the figures laid down for 2016 can create stable and predictable conditions. Thank you with respect, fellow Members, for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-29-14	I now give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, on behalf of the LMP.
u2015-05-29-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, If I may, before I come to my own subject, I would like to respond to a few things, since we have been hearing very interesting speeches in the past time. I have listened to Dr Bene Ildikó's speech with great pleasure, as she practically lists the tasks needed in health care with competence and practical knowledge. My problem is that as long as you see the resources needed for this, we do not see this in the budget, that this should be done. You are credible and well able to represent the issue of health, and we do not understand how it comes to the conclusion that, after you tell us what problems the Hungarian health system is facing, after you tell us that every citizen in Hungary lives two years less than the European average, we should spend billions on Paks or spend billions on tax reductions. It doesn't make sense to reason, because obviously, this is where the money should be grouped, and we need substantially more resources for the purposes that you've been talking about. We fully agree with the objectives, and the resources allocated for these purposes are extremely limited. Similarly, if the name of Semmelweis arises, then I am reminded of a man of the same caliber, so forgive me, Ágnes Geréb, who has struggled a great deal to create a culture in Hungary, like many countries of the world, to give birth outside the institution with professional assistance. It was your government that created the legal conditions for this. However, to date, there is no source for the first reference institutions to start. To date, there is no source for the training of midwives in Hungary. There is no background to this being able to go along with the legislation you have created, and this is as much a resource as all the tasks you have been able to say. Unfortunately, these lacks of resources also occur in our daily lives. We are almost earthling, you know well that the children love the uncle of the field-turbine ear-nose-burner, because he is a very nice man, and practically in half the county, from Tiszafüred down to noon, he has to go everywhere. He spends a few hours everywhere because he doesn't have specialist care, because we don't have good specialists. If you know, in our districts where I come from, there are grumpy old uncles like you who can't go to their pension because there's no one to take over their GP practice because there's no proper incentive system to fill it. So what I'm saying is that with all the goals you've been able to say, you can fully agree and support it, and there are even additional tasks here, but all these tasks would require much, much more resources. And it requires a lot of resources to carry out public tasks that can improve people's quality of life, increase life expectancy, health conservation and disease prevention, then that really requires resources. And we need substantially more resources. I also enjoyed the speech by Vice-President Latorcai on economic policy. Obviously, there's a lot of things I'd be arguing about. After all, when you talk about the year of the tax reduction, I keep counting what this tax reduction will mean, even in relation to the tax reduction. We are talking about the fact that people close to the minimum wage save 12,000 forints annually, while the governing body of the National Bank saves 200-300 thousand forints. Once again, the money doesn't go where it's needed most. And the problem is that until your government realizes that the single-key tax system is a complete mistake, which only contributes to further tearing apart Hungarian society, while those who are in poverty go down even further, and those who are well-off will rise even further, this will not change. Their policies are fundamentally flawed, and as long as they do not see this, society is incorrigible to very, very poor and very affluent. We would have the tax policy instruments to avoid this, and Vice-President Latorcai will not talk about the year of tax reduction until this tax policy serves this social fragmentation. I also have a serious problem, or, obviously, a malicious political quarrel when he talks about family-friendly politics, that the budget is on the side of the family, he used these terms. Our problem is that you can count the few families on your side. It is possible to count the few families to which this helps; while it does not help the majority of the families of Hungarian society, it does not provide a meaningful opportunity. Obviously, these are the ones that we are trying to change significantly with our amendments. To go back in time and respond in a few more sentences, there was a question of agricultural policy. Secretary of State István Nagy has already said a few things, which are all very, very interesting. Thus, in the case of the undivided joint, I too have a comma parapa, and I am very pleased that my fellow Member, Haughty, has told me, so I will not use much time to do so, but the problem is that if, in five years, we have achieved some results in an Iron County, then, if I count correctly, it will take 95 years. That's my problem. If this goes on at this rate, let alone in our lives, but even in the next period, this failed problem will not be solved. No one claims that Fidesz created the problem, no one says you're to blame, but five years ago, they promise to fix it, and in five years, they could deal with a county. It's obviously not enough. The fact that Karcagon's circle of friends now convinced the Minister of Agriculture that Karcagon should start a new sample program again does not help the majority of Hungarian society. It would help if this work could move forward with additional resources, significantly more dynamic and better. I ask you, as a representative of the sector, to represent this interest in the budget against the right wallets. Ask for more money for this. We're on your side if that's what you want to do. We support you with our amendments in this respect. Obviously, in the policy on livestock farming, my fellow Member, Mr Grimlock, has also said a number of things. Again and again, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, as long as we do not distinguish traditional extensive livestock farming methods with higher live work needs from intensive farming, and we are talking only about animal farming, the agricultural purse will not be able to achieve its objective, because neither in employment policy nor in healthy food production will there be any difference that it would like to achieve. Mr. Secretary of State, as well as the Minister, is a flag-bearer in the fight against GMO. As long as intensive cattle farming has an advantage, market advantage, support advantage over cattle stocks in extensive grazing livestock, the type of food safety that Dr Bene's dream of not being below average in healthy lifestyles and life expectancy is not achieved. This difference in lifestyle, this consumption culture, is what could make a significant contribution to reducing health harm. Obviously, this is why it is necessary to make a fundamental distinction and provide significantly more resources for this. Unfortunately, I reacted longer than I wanted, so I now turn to one of my main areas, the resources of the small municipalities. Unfortunately, in the past period, and again, I can say that we do not always have to take everything as an attack, because not the Fidesz government... but the biggest losers of the last 15 years have been small settlements. The small villages from which the last 10-15 years have taken public services, from which little children have to stand by the bus in the morning in snow and freezing in order to get to the neighboring settlement in school, where there is no post office, there is no train - these became the main losers. [[9.40]] The problem is that, as a voting base, these do not represent a large number of people, and that is why no political force is dealing with them and are not adequately dealt with by the government. It is obvious that the funding of municipalities is insufficient. The funding of municipalities is as bad as it is. Take a look at the trend of forcing small self-governments to do something against their own interests, so that they can, in contrast with the support of local farmers' circles, say, levy land taxes and try to supplement their income with such activities while not receiving a multitude of resources. There are mandatory tasks that are not financed. I could also talk about the salary of small-town mayors, which I trust, so that we did not submit it, but a Fidesz MP, in case he has more chance of being heard, but there are many other tasks to discuss, because if we look at how unfair the Hungarian development policy is, then small settlements are the biggest sufferers of this. You use government resources to spend hundreds of billions, say, on motorway development or highway development. Where there's a highway, there's a chance that some big company, some assembly plant you like should settle down, just like Gyöngyös, Kecskemét or anything else, you need a highway. If such a company is established, it will start producing local business tax opportunities to have resources there. At the same time, where no development has gone and no company has gone and there is no revenue from local business tax, the municipalities are completely losing the budget because they do not have the funds. This system is unfair, puts it where there is already a motorway, where there is a factory, where there is a farm, where there is additional resources go, until where there is virtually nothing, there is no source, and not only there is no source, but there is no concrete support or help that can strengthen local employment. Once again, we are seeing very, very interesting experiences throughout the country on the subject of the agricultural portfolio. When I was recently in Tolna County, in the northern part, where the municipality of one of the small villages says that they love the Start Work Programme very much and stop attacking it, because it is a very important opportunity for local people to have something. But their Start work programme can't be self-sustaining, and it can't produce so that it doesn't depend on government resources, because they don't have any land. For 15 hectares of land, the leaders of the county general assembly have been contacted in several cases, the ground fund, while the NFA gives 100 hectares to large companies belonging to Sándor Csányi, and this is not something that would cost the government money, not something that would require budgetary resources, but simply a need for regulation that would increase the opportunities of local governments. This would be useful, for example, for the demographic land programme on which we have also tabled a budget amendment, because we would like applicants who create jobs in the lease of the land to come to the fore, which the Secretary of State spoke about, to help self-preservation and family farming. But at the moment, there is no specific purpose for this, because the scoring of the tender system is not fair. It is not good, because it takes into account aspects which do not look at the fact that the system wants to help locally living families or young children, but completely different aspects, and as long as the demographic land programme cannot start up, a vast majority of state lands - I maintain - will not be useful to Hungarian society, because they do not necessarily create new jobs as effectively as they should. By efficiency, I mean, say, if you employ a person under 50 hectares, or if you have a major employment of 150, 200 and 500 hectares, because there are a lot of such beneficiaries of the current land programme, which does not involve new employment, while those who, on the other hand, from cities finally say that they are going back to the countryside to help with the policy of maintaining the rural population will not have the opportunities to help them start a family there, raise children and create family farms. That is what our amendment would obviously mean. While I am here at the family farms, I should obviously say something about the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises. What I find most strange is that, over the past year, the government has been constantly talking about strengthening small and medium-sized enterprises with income from the Structural Funds over the next period. The LMP agrees with this trend from the beginning. We believe that the foundation of the Hungarian economy should be given to small and medium-sized enterprises, rural, locally owned, self-employed enterprises with local owners, single-member enterprises, because this could create the foundations of economic diversity, and this would be very, very important. On the other hand, what does the statistics say? We don't make it up, so we don't control the data on the KSH. In the autumn of last year, too, the number of SMEs has reached record records, and another peak in the number of small and medium-sized enterprises disappearing has been reached in April. If the government is serious about investing energy and resources in this type of economic development, then this must be addressed. That is why we are submitting amendments to ensure that those who at least embody the government's goals are given tax relief and that we help them to survive. The SME sector is completely like this. We would like the funds not to be centralised in financing major developments, but, if possible, to provide assistance to as many small and medium-sized enterprises as possible throughout the Hungarian countryside. To do so, we need to help them access to the Structural Funds with credit systems, and we need to help them with preferential schemes to obtain funds from the application systems, because the Prime Minister's Office will do whatever it takes from EU funds to ensure that if they cannot create self-esteem for proposals with an intensity of 35-40 per cent, they will do anything if they do not have the capital backing required for pre-financing. As long as the budgetary resources for this do not exist, the number of SMEs will not be reduced. We're going in a completely opposite direction than the government promised. In this connection, we have tabled a number of amendments that we would like to recommend to our pro-government fellow Members. In most cases, we are trying to strengthen those that embody your goals in words, and we believe that we should provide much more resources for these public tasks. I hope for another specialty, environmental and nature protection, that I will have a later opportunity, which is now missing. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-05-29-16	Secretary of State István Nagy asked for the floor. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-05-29-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. With a few sentences, let me answer my fellow Member, Mr R. Benedict, and let me say once again his undivided common problem. Yes, the government senses how embarrassing and urgent it is. It was necessary to create the material elements and create the legislative, regulatory background that could be implemented. We are done with this in Vas County, during the month of May, those who have checked in with farmers will be given the notification when, where, in order to conclude agreements on the common undivided, the agricultural portfolio has chosen the company that will carry out this process, so I have to say that this process is in the right direction. It's not a county in five years, it's practically until 2018, who asked for it, requested it, and there's a very good chance it'll be finished. With regard to traditional livestock farming, let me say to my fellow Member that, yes, there is a challenge in changing attitudes, because when we are talking about a pig programme or pork fattening, we should also say that the Hungarian food industry needs at least three types of pigs. He needs a 110-115 kg pig produced under industrial conditions, a pig fattened to a large mass that can serve as a raw material for the Hungaricums, and there is a need for native Hungarian breeds, including mangalica, which has a significant market value. But it can only be determined by market factors, and, as the example shows, there is a demand for each of them, and I very much hope that we can do so. Once again, it is just a matter of thinking about how much we will be able to promote sheep meat consumption in Hungary, because what you were talking about, one of the finest animals or species would be sheep in grazing livestock, because it gives the quality of meat and would mean a food quality-security increase in the consumption of sheep meat, with which everyone would agree in this country, it would only have to be restored to the public again, and meat should be re-accepted. The authorities have also said, my dear congressman, that access to land is to be found. Allow me to say to you here a sad thing: you were here before Parliament, you should have supported it, because it's two-thirds in order to give it to you. [[Zoltán Gőgös: Bring him back with the national parks!]] If I want to help you, I say that this municipality should set up an association, a social association, and it can apply and get land right away. [[9.50]] After all, there is the program that the Ministry of Interior has, where we can give land to associations that wish to carry out gardening or crop production tasks in Start-work or public works. So don't ask for it, but the association created or supported by the municipality can apply without further ado, but I would ask your association to press the yes button if it comes to Parliament, so that we can give the required area to the municipalities under a two-thirds law. Support for the SME sector: the new operational programme for rural development is specifically designed to support SMEs by 80%. I must also tell you that we are very curious about whether the SME sector will be able to claim this huge amount that is available. I very much hope that, at the end of the tendering period, you will be able to give a very different critical head start on what statistics you see. We are in a very difficult situation when the government tells us what we want to do, and you, referring to a past five years of statistics, reveal to us the past that what we say is different and that it is different. Yes, because, in the last five-year cycle, these subsidies have been along a different line, and I hope that after 2018, by 2020, this support process will also be the result of what you said, and you can see how important it is to support small and medium-sized enterprises. I note only in parentheses that the proportions of the world and Hungary in it are interesting. In Hungary, with the exception of 1-2-10 agricultural companies, almost everyone else belongs to the SME sector. This is bad news for you, but I said that we see things as big here, but if we look at them in Europe or in the world, they are quite different sizes, but I have to say to you that SMEs of the size of Hungary will be supported by 80% of these European Union funds. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-29-18	I give the floor to Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi, of the independent Members.
u2015-05-29-19	Thank you very much. When we talk about next year's budget, we also have to look back on the previous years. Viktor Orbán's five-year evaluation, or government evaluator, should be launched shortly, and the budgetary policy and the social policy principles set out in the budget should also be reviewed retroactively, as this year's budget does not change the legacy that we have. In part, I think that the tax policy introduced by the Orbán government, namely, the single-key personal income tax, has now clearly failed, otherwise it has already failed, and it continues to fail, so the extension of this is at least surprising. [[Noise, interruptions. Dr. Judit Bertalan, Mrs. Czunyi, you're flunked. Elementary 2nd grade!]] Originally, the government, with no small right, expected him to do what he expected from the single-key personal income tax, if it was introduced at the right time, it could be expected to have an increase in labour supply and people to spend it for consumption, thereby generating the economy. This is not what happened in Hungary. Already in the first years, it has been revealed that neither labour supply has increased nor has anyone spent this money for consumption, basically the people who have received it, saved or repaid their debt, so this change has not had any positive impact on the Hungarian economy. However, it can be said that from the poorest fifth of the population, this money has migrated to the richest fifth. Therefore, its impact on growth is not relevant. The government also basically maintains the fiscal policy based on the policy of special taxes, with some minor corrections. To date, the situation is that it distorts competition in the market, discourages investment and makes the business environment fundamentally more unpredictable. This has not changed, and in these circumstances entrepreneurs are forced to work in Hungary. This is certainly, as two basic thesis of this government, I think, a serious failure. Budget policy has had other inheritances with us since the last few years. In particular, in centralized education, it is perhaps most obvious how much of the exclusion of centralisation has been associated with both public and higher education, but the same has been done in a more sophisticated way with centralisation of health care. Thus, the amounts that stand before us here in the current budget in these sectors cannot make a substantial difference, since in previous years hundreds of billions of HUF have been lacking both in education, health and labour market interventions. I therefore think that without this, without all this, we cannot talk about the current budget. What is important for this government, what are the areas where very important but obviously unnecessary money goes? The Prime Minister is the Várba program, stadium in every village program, Russian atom for our grandchildren program, slave work for everyone program, and a lot of money for government, State Secretarys, Deputy State Secretarys, Government expenditure, prestige investments. I think that these are the areas to which, when we are trying to correct this budget, which is otherwise fundamentally wrong in its structure, in some way, we can reach for resources. The government is very proud of its family policy, but I think it is also a misunderstood thing. The government loves to talk about the government of citizens, but the Orbán government has, in fact, been a serious obstacle to Hungarian civilization since it came to power in 2010. All the tools, all the services, all the government interventions that would help to strengthen social mobility, to get people ahead, to see our children ahead of us where we are, are not supported in any way, and even those interventions, government services that have evolved back in almost all areas. Therefore, this budget, as in previous years, is a serious obstacle to the civilization of Hungary. I think it's unacceptable to have a XXI. In relation to the enlightened state of the century. I think, as I said, that this budget is structurally wrong, and that without a rethinking it all, it cannot really be improved. It can be corrected a little bit, but that's what I've been trying to do for myself. I've been trying to think about, like a careful parent, what long-term matters are that are important to people. It's very simple to think about. We want our children to learn well, to go to a good school, to go to a good school, to be healthy, and to have our offspring healthy, and to have a good, quality, motivating job for our children. These three things are also the most important in Hungary: education, health and work. Therefore, my proposals for amendment cover these areas in principle. As I said, I have just marked the funds, and I propose transfers within a budget of about 700 billion forints, especially in the field of school, the world of school, public education and higher education. I must add that, once again, there have been structural changes in the last few years, which, by the way, make it impossible for everyone in Hungary to have quality education. The KLIK, the organisation of centralised education, is a highly misinterpreted concept. The services provided by the state to everyone and the standards it sets for schools are unnecessary to manage schools and centralise the state, and it is also absolutely unnecessary for the state to be the employer of all teachers. It is no wonder that so few school principals are applying for this post today, they are simply standing on a mountain where they have failed to choose directors in recent years, since they have nothing to do with school principals today, like putting together a schedule. [[10.00]] This is a very serious frustration, and, of course, it is structurally problematic that directors cannot be proper owners of schools, they cannot say who teachers should be there, they have nothing to do with development, they are simply taken away from them. I think that the career model, which is also a pride of the government, has gone wrong again. Whether the career model could be a good one, it is quite obvious that this is what people in the school world need, but if we order the career model and some salary increase to take away the right to self-organize from educators, we force them into the Pedagogist Faculty, and basically make it impossible for them to interfere in their own way of life in the future, it is simply a price that I don't think is worth raising that little salary. And, of course, the career model isn't even ready yet, it was introduced with the whole thing not figured out, and many of its elements are still left. There's a serious problem with vocational education and training. There's been a lot of talk over the last few weeks. This is a completely misunderstood thing, it is as if the representatives of the Hungarian government did not understand a foreign language when they discussed the dual system with their German and Danish colleagues. The dual system does not mean that children do not learn public knowledge. If we look at the number of public education classes completed by skilled workers in Germany, it turns out that one and a half times as much as in Hungary in previous years. In Denmark, 80% of skilled workers speak English at a meaningful level; in Hungary it is 0.5 percent. Dual training is not about learning public knowledge, because children who learn a profession today need to learn another profession ten years from now. If they can't read, they can't count in English, they can't computerize, they'll lose their knowledge in ten years in today's world. So this is also a very serious problem. All these things I said because the current budget can't change them. Even if we give a little more money to the teachers, this system cannot be corrected, it is so badly missed. And by the way, where I have made proposals, it is basically the development areas. The centralisation was seriously affected not only by teachers but also by the institutions and workers responsible for the development of children. Today, if someone's child is forced to be a speech therapist, parents have to move it from a lot of cities to other cities instead of having such basic development services near the child, available at school. Let's not talk about the rest of it. In short, there has been a very serious shortage of money in higher education in recent years. These are my suggestions that I would like to make up for some of them. There's been a lot of talk about health care today. This is basically lacking in government plans. I propose resources to health in a much larger scale than the few billion forints Dr. Bene mentioned. Obviously, there is much more money for the wage development of workers, for the development of critical institutions, for debt consolidation, for ambulances than there is in this plan at the moment. I'd even like to say a few words about the world of work. After the fact that Minister of State Czomba also considers the system of public employment to be wrong and calls for the downsizing of it, it is shocking how persistently the government is constantly pushing for the positive effects of this. After young graduates are immediately forced into public service today, because if they can't find a job in three months, then they have no other option, this is totally unacceptable, and it is against the original concepts that the government proudly undertook. We, together, have developed a programme to work and manage, which basically gathered modern forms of active labour market initiatives rejected and decommissioned by the government. Job search insurance and job creation based on a cooperation agreement is what we are calling for. I have incorporated the budgetary elements of this into my proposals. Overall, I think that this programme is focusing on the wrong places. The government maintains structural elements that have failed in previous years, and it does not essentially focus on the things that the needs of the Hungarian people in these years. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-29-20	State Secretary Gábor Orbán has applied for a statement. You have the floor.
u2015-05-29-21	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Congressman Sallai and now Mrs Selényi also mentioned the single-key tax and the special taxes. In a few sentences, I would like to respond to these in a few points. It would not be good for me to ignore what they have said, because much has been said, which I cannot agree with. I think, above all, that the balance of a single-key tax has been withdrawn quite early. I believe that the impact of an economic policy measure should always be measured to some basic path - the basic rule of a fair analysis - that would have happened if we had not introduced that measure. A number of years will have to go by to see what effect this specific measure could have had between the other impacts on the economy, society and the labour market. So I think that the Member and the Member have reached a relatively hasty conclusion. What do I think can be said now on this morning in May 2015 about the single-key tax introduced in 2011? I'd like to summarize that in three points. What we know for sure is this. In order to have a substantial budgetary impact on the introduction of a progressive tax system, it would be necessary to draw very low the line from which the higher rates are already entering. This would mean that the level of personal income tax would already be higher than the average wage, and I do not believe that it would be in line with the idea of a fair tax system in your mind. Why is it that we should put the band line so low? Because the tax system and economic policy before 2010 have resulted in a very specific pattern of income distribution in Hungary. In no other country, at least in the countries we can compare, it is not typical that there is such a high level of income distribution in the area of minimum wage. This kind of tax evasion has emerged by, of course, not wanting to tax capital incomes in particular - there is no change in this, there is even progress in the case of small and medium-sized enterprises - but at the same time the socialist government has put extreme burdens on labour through contributions and personal income tax systems in general. This caused the escape to the minimum wage world, which then made the progressive tax system pointless. Society has simply escaped from the personal income tax system into which it came under socialist governance. The second point I would like to mention concerns the evolution of activity. That's the first time I've heard that. In the last five years, it is quite clear that we have never been able to bring Hungarian society, Hungarian families, so close to the world of work as we are now. It is not true that there was no increase in the number of workers or those seeking work. This figure is already over 4.5 million people, which is the highest figure for more than 20 years in proportion to the working age population. [[10.10]] In point 3, I would like to say that saving behaviour is something that can't be linked to a single-key tax as directly as you did. It is not that savings have increased in Hungary because there is a single-key tax; they have increased because, due to over-loaning and the failed foreign currency lending policy, which could be continued without a neck before 2010, Hungarian families have faced burdens that take a long time to drop. There has been a lot of progress over the past five years, but there is no doubt that there has been a kind of debt abuse, which has resulted in savings overall greater than in those days when foreign exchange loans could be given and bought without reason; there is no connection to the single-key tax in this process. Finally, I would like to express an opinion on the transfer or redistribution between the poorest fifth of society and one fifth of the richest, Member: I understand that the poorest fifth of Hungarian society does not have a personal income tax return. It's very sad that it is; there must be, we are working on it, but there is no right now, so I think you're mistaken when you think that the personal income tax system has made any difference. As far as the special taxes are concerned, you said that they distort competition and cause unpredictability. I believe that in 2010, the credibility of the budget was so deep that it could not have been pushed deeper by any special tax, so that could not have been made worse. The role of the special taxes was to bring about sustainable fiscal stabilisation from a social point of view in Hungary, and this, we can now say, has happened and has been successful. With fiscal credibility restored - since we have now been stable under 3 percent of the budget deficit for the fourth year - and with the turn of growth, the system of special taxes has also undergone a kind of transformation. Some of the special taxes have become traffic-type taxes when we tax on a wide base with a low key in a very efficient and difficult way to avoid. This kind of tax has no impact on the functioning of the sectors as measured by us; such information has never been obtained through informal channels or data. It should also be noted, Madam President, that a very serious progress is being made in reducing the bank tax in the system of special taxes, in the sense that the government is trying to build on the banking system to make it more sustainable than the engine of growth, compared to what we did in the past, when it was typically seen as a means of stabilisation. This is also a transformation of the system of special taxes in which we adapt the policy of special taxes to changing reality, changing economic and social conditions. Finally, allow me one more thought on the instruments available to the government on tax policy in a situation where we are a member of the European Union and economic policy is highly harmonised. It is clear that when the country starts from a particularly difficult situation, the government is trying to find tools in the least harmonised area to create budgetary stability, and the fact is that at this moment, this is the policy of direct taxes, where we still have the greatest room for manoeuvre, and I do not want us to take it away from ourselves. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-29-22	I give the floor to Secretary Judit Bertalan.
u2015-05-29-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. In the comments of my fellow Member, Zsuzsa Szelényi, in addition to the strikingly suffering structure, some things also hit my ear with regard to education, and I would like to give you some factual answers and draw your attention to the fact that we should not lead to the budget or the mediation of Parliament regarding the system of public education. For example, there is no correlation between the National Pedagogical Faculty as an organization and the pedagogical career in the pedagogical career system. In fact, if you have started your contribution to the discussion of education chapters by being a parent, and believe me, as a parent to my children, I would like a good school and a better school, and unlike any other celebrity - which is obviously in the best interest of some of you on the other side - my child is still going to a primary school in the village, so I know exactly what the state of school in rural Hungary was like between 2002 and 2010, and what opportunities have been created by the Klebelsberg Institutional Support Centre, which you so much cursed by, which now allows us to diagnose precisely all the consequences that arise from the maintenance of municipal schools in small and disadvantaged areas. So there is a part of the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Centre that makes the state maintainer suitable for targeted intervention in disadvantaged areas, in the case of economically disadvantaged districts, because it is not up to the budgetary capacity of the municipality to decide what programme, what opportunities it creates for children studying in its school, but to see exactly where we can intervene in a targeted way, even in the case of opportunities-creating, catching-up programmes. To say that there is already a budget provision, which is covered in the 2016 budget, this is the territorial bonus resulting from the amendment of Government Decree No 326 and the provision for educators working in difficult circumstances, teachers teaching in a number of disadvantaged or most disadvantaged areas, which are expanding, aligning or adapting to the Government Decree on the classification of disadvantaged districts. So, factually, what you're saying is not true - there's collateral, there's additional tasks covered in the budget. More resources are available, and teachers' careers are covered in the 2016 budget, obviously during the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Centre, but on other lines there is also the coverage or increase of the teacher's career for non-state civilian maintainers. I would just like to say to you that, when it comes to teaching careers, one of the basic conditions of a good school is a good educator and a good teacher who, by doing his job, teaches the children themselves to be recognized in society. One of the keys to this, Mrs President, has been that, in the long run, the career model has been introduced for teachers in the public sector by means of an education policy which has been lacking the existential status of teachers. Let me just make a parentheses comment: today, yesterday and in recent weeks, employees of the other public sectors see the pedagogical career model as a reference, which is otherwise a system that is expected by the OECD and supported by the OECD, in order to support a good educator with both the training and the advisory system, to talk about a career in supporting quality work with existential progress. First, the educational career model was introduced in the public sector. This includes budgetary coverage, in line with impact assessments, both in 2015 and in the current and later years. So I think it's a good place to put these, let's just say, fine slides. I have appointments as school principals on my desk, and I look forward to the announcements from the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Center; there are multiple school directors' applications. I don't understand what you're talking about here. There is no school without a director, and indeed the reality, my dear fellow Member, is that there are more people applying for a job as directors in some institutions, and I think that is right. After all, every five years or at times, it is necessary for a school to have leadership attitudes and leadership styles tested again, and to re-evaluate its leadership skills, either to receive a further mandate or to have a change in the life of the school. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact - because you have highlighted the tasks of the Logopedian and quasi-medical pedagogical exercise, as an area of public education, which, in your view or in your knowledge, is more of a chaotic one - that I would say that order is getting in order. [[10.20]] After all, when the single state maintenance organisation performs maintenance tasks in accordance with the main rule of all types of regional associations and multiple maintenance formations, I would also like to correct, professional and maintenance management organisation KLIK, the kind of autonomy and freedom that you are talking about, to wash together a freedom of content and pedagogy that represents the work of the teacher and to interpret and misinterpreted in another organizational governance circle, so I would not use these two concepts here. But returning to the performance of the training tasks, or, for example, to logopedia, to physical education, or to a licence: these in the maintenance of sub-regional associations - and sitting in the benches by someone who can back it up - has been provided by several settlements by traveling logopedies or by organizing traveling small regional services, because the problem here is fundamentally different than the organizational system's previous or current, let us say, organisational state, rather because there is a shortage of professionals here. I think that the scholarship programme is one of the solutions for the future to fill this shortage of professionals, as a shortage profession, as a school teacher or an educational profession. The second is that, in the current round, precisely thanks to the government's earlier decision a few weeks ago, along with the early development strategy, we get additional job positions and status in the places of placement, in order to strengthen these supportive teaching sessions. So for the first time in years, there has been a measure where we can and dare to think - and this early development strategy is covered in the budget, as this means extra status - obviously thanks to the survey that, with the cooperation of the health sector, the women and many sectors, seems to stress the importance of early development and the consequences of this early development on arrival in public education, we are taking preliminary steps now, and we do not need to correct it in school and touch late on the possibility of child development or the development of the child. Because we know precisely that, as soon as possible, in kindergarten or kindergarten, making therapeutic or development sessions available means that children can connect, join with much greater or better opportunities when entering school, if their learning skills are lagging behind, disadvantage; I wouldn't dare to diagnose this in this place and in this context, let's say, a disease or a stronger problem. I would also like to say to you that, to a much greater extent than in previous decades, if possible, there is also a significant amount in the budget than in zero, such as helping to access learning and knowledge and covering the provision of free textbooks. In the next academic year - by the way, the 2016 budget already contains the coverage of this resource for the 2016-2017 academic year - the fourth grade will receive a textbook free of charge in September 2016 and the government will help with this measure mainly to educate the children of families that I believe were unprecedented in previous years. There was textbook support in the system on the basis of entitlement to child protection benefits, this is the case now, but it is generated by the provision of a free textbook in the system that goes up to primary school years, I think a measure that will help people living in disadvantaged areas, adults through learning, school, knowledge to the world of work, which is also a measure that can be measured with a positive long-term impact, as hoped. One more thing, which also means that in the interests of creating a chance and catching up policy, the budget does contain public education items. Obviously, according to our ministry's horizontal structure, budget resources for children's meals can not be found in public education, but I also think that it is unprecedented and exemplary in the government cycles of the last 25 years, so that we can involve children in such mass catering. For example, 90 percent of preschool children will receive free hot food and three meals a day. I think that such a supporter - and I will finish as you started - from the child's side to the school and from the parent's side to the need - is good, and the budget serves as a support and support system for the children's education. Yes, slowly, in progressive steps, but predictablely, because each item is present as a confirmation of the previous government decision, so the pedagogical career, the free children's meals, the continuation of the free children's textbook. So I think, Congresswoman, that these things must be put in order to see the whole situation of Hungary in the countryside and of a school where the former municipal maintainer could put much more positions, much more ammunition in the pockets of the child and the school. So please support this budget, because there are many items concerning public education and support for families that have not been in Hungary's budget in the last 25 years. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-29-24	I now give the floor to János Fuzik, Slovak ethnic advocate.
u2015-05-29-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Vážen. Pan predseda! Vážené Národné zhromaždenie! Pozdravujem Vás vo svojom slovenskom materinskom jazyku v mene parlamentného V.boru pre národnosti v Ma. Arsku a prájem Customs úspesné rokovanie! Mr President, Dear Parliament, I welcome you to my Slovak mother tongue on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary and wish you an effective meeting. Our committee also had an effective meeting last week, at its meeting on 20 May, when, among other things, T/4730. We discussed the draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2016. At the time I found myself saying that we were actually discussing this item in a state of grace. In a state of grace, because the government's bill for next year contains a significant part of our expectations based on the results of last year's grounding, planning and conciliation work. Last year it was a very different situation, even more so in the previous ten or so years. In the general budgetary debate held in November last year, we heard our voice and the voice of the nationalities in Hungary in connection with a bill that, without a single penny increase in 2015 and with cold mechanicality, has produced the unchanged ethnicity budget figures for many years, for example, 14 years in the case of ethnic society or civil society organisations, the ominous 110 million forints a year, which has been distributed among the applicants by the Parliament's Committee on Human Rights, Minorities and Religion for a long time. The members of the parliamentary committee certainly did not regret that this ungrateful task had been transferred to government agencies who had taken up national affairs in Hungary, most recently to the Human Resources Support Manager, known as EMET, in the Ministry of Human Resources, which, even at the beginning of 2015, tried to meet the sevenfold, nearly HUF 740 million tender needs of 428 NGOs. However, in the same way, we could recall the case of the 13 national minority self-governments, whose budget support has practically not changed since 2008, while continuing to assume new tasks without consideration in the spirit of their nationality commitment and serious mission. [[10.30]] Cultural institutions have been established for the survival of our ethnic communities, they have taken over the maintenance of new ethnic schools, and they have also started to renovate buildings more than once. Three years later, in 2011, the annual support of each national minority government increased by a few ten million forints, but this was only because the guaranteed support of their national minority newspaper was included in their budget section, which was beneficial from the point of view of the fact that it was no longer necessary to apply for the National and Ethnic Minorities Public Foundation every year, but in return, the new publishers were often forced to supplement the limited budget support of their minority weekly newspapers. So in November last year, during the general debate on the draft budget bill for this year, we argued here at the plenary session of Parliament in order to eliminate and improve these unblessed conditions. But not only have we argued, but we have created a basis for our arguments through thoughtful, systematic preparatory work. We have regularly consulted and consulted the presidents of national minority self-governments. We started from the existing system of national minority support with the determination not to seek case-by-case solutions, surface treatments, but to remove it and then keep our frozen ship on the move. Of course, we started with the most critical points: by increasing the support of the 13 national minority self-governments and the newspapers and institutions they maintain, by increasing the operational and task-based support of the 2143 local and regional minority self-governments, with the special support of the mother tongue camps of schoolchildren in the mother country. Based on further real needs, we planned to open a new budget line to cover the renewal, investment and tender part of the institutions maintained by the national authorities. Our committee has consulted the government author of the draft budget bill and the leaders of the parliamentary groups - successfully. The ethnicity budget support line of HUF 4 billion has increased by another HUF 2 billion. It is our hope that the local governments and institutions of Hungarian ethnicities could start on a road that opens a new chapter in their history. The bill on Hungary's central budget for 2016 seems to confirm our hopes. We've earned it again. Surely the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities is one of the three highest-meeting bodies of the Parliament for a reason! Based on last year's experience - not knowing that next year's budget bill could already be included in the series of articles in the spring session - we have already started negotiations with national national minority self-governments about their budget support needs early. Following the planned path, we envisaged a 100 percent increase in the operating support of the municipal and regional authorities of the nationalities with an increase of HUF 784.2 million. Thus, the framework for operating and task-based support for local and regional authorities can be balanced next year, exceeding HUF 1.5-1.5 billion. Another important and most important element of our motion is the bill on Hungary's central budget for 2016 XX. Chapter 56 - Nationality allowance sub-heading. This year's base value is HUF 639,4 million, which we planned to add an additional HUF 820 million; to be more precise: the amount of funding that has remained unchanged for almost 14 years, apart from a small-scale student camp increase this year. The amount of proposals submitted and accepted this year for the 320 million HUF tender framework is nearly six times higher than the amount that can be split up. However, these opportunities to stimulate ethnic vitality and activity over the past decade and a half would have helped our efforts to combat linguistic assimilation and loss of identity. With nostalgia, we mentioned the 650 million forints created by the government in the mid-1990s after the adoption of the law on the rights of new national and ethnic minorities, after the real renewal of the national minority policy, for the donation of the Public Foundation for National and Ethnic Minorities. By the time I looked into it, in 1995, the annual central rate of an American dollar was 125 forints. Returning to the tender package, this is a significant item of support for non-governmental organisations of nationality, which have been the mentioned and boning budget of 110 million forints since 2002. We recommend a triple increase to HUF 330 million, which would cover almost half of the application needs. The same indicators can also apply to applications to support national cultural initiatives: 110 million HUF is available, and we would like to add 220 million more. We want to assign an additional 180 million to the 90 million budget of the native language student camps, which would be a reassuring solution in this area as well. To support the further training of our ethnic teachers in the motherland, we would order an additional 20 million for the existing HUF 10 million. We want to add two more elements to the four topics that have traditionally worked, although very modestly, so far, by means of budgetary options. In our view, we would create a new funding fund of HUF 100 million in support of our significantly underfunded, yet promisingly developing and growing ethnic theatre world, which would be complemented by a transfer of the equivalent budget of HUF 106 million. The operation of small minority public education institutions of less than 100 people, which are maintained by local and national authorities, is increasingly associated with unsolvable financial difficulties for the maintainers. We are also planning to open a new tender framework with HUF 80 million to settle their costs. The six entries listed are therefore a budget increase of HUF 820 million. In addition to the proposed increase of HUF 784.2 million in the operating support of local and regional minority authorities, which will be supplemented by the compensation of HUF 18 million from the National Polish Municipality, the funding frameworks form the second pillar of our Commission budget proposal. [[10.40]] Our third significant support element is first mentioned in this year's budget, under the heading XX. Chapter 60, subtitled "Citizenship Investment, Renewal Framework and Application Self" with HUF 441.2 million. We want to double this in next year's budget to the same extent. As incredible as it may seem, we are still following the method of small steps, since in the case of nearly 100 public education and cultural institutions maintained by 13 national ethnic authorities, the measured investment and renovation needs amount to more than HUF 17 billion. After the long years of budgetary stagnation, therefore, the amount of work to be done and paid has been accumulated. However, it is encouraging for us that last year, when we adopted this year's central budget, we experienced a new attitude, a sincere willingness to help and, above all, effective steps by both the government and the Parliament. The HUF 2 billion increase in national minority support for this year - we are pleased to see - can be followed by further developments on a similar scale. Our budget support needs, which together could represent a further increase of HUF 2 billion of HUF 63,4 million in 2016 in the life of Hungarian nationalities, are already included in the government's new bill. This year, therefore, we should no longer argue, as last year, in order to improve the situation of our nationalities by adopting our Commission amendment in Parliament, but, as is required by the criteria of a regular bill, we justify the justification and necessity of the budget support items that we require. This is what I have been trying to do, in the hope that the Honourable Parliament will adopt the bill on Hungary's central budget for 2016 and support the efforts of our committee and the chances of survival of our ethnic communities. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-05-29-26	Now it is possible to make two-minute comments. I give the floor to Sallai R. Benedek, on behalf of the LMP.
u2015-05-29-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I wanted to respond briefly to a few things. I very much welcome Mr Gábor Orbán's calm response. He said that this kind of tax policy should be properly analysed. That's exactly what I meant: I don't care about GDP numbers, I don't care about micro indicators, there are virtually disappearing SMEs, there is emigration to an unprecedented extent, there is a breakdown of society, and there are four regions in Hungary among the poorest regions of the EU. If we are talking about tax policy, this is what gave me, because it is obvious that we can measure the quality of a government measure in the quality of life of people rather than in numbers. He also said that the NAV could not collect the tax, there was a great tax avoidance. I believe that if a tax authority does not work well, if it cannot collect the tax, the single-key tax is not the answer or the remission of taxes for the most wealthy, but obviously a properly functioning NAV led by professionals.And I wanted to respond in a few sentences to some of the thoughts of Secretary of State István Nagy. He said that the new rural development programme would start, wondering if SMEs could use it; I was just talking about not knowing. Under the current conditions and regulation, if there are no budgetary support factors, they cannot use it because they cannot provide either a self-force or pre-financing. That's what I'm talking about. I liked to say that there was a need for a change in consumer perception in food consumption. We fully agree on this, too, but we are talking about the fact that tax policy, such as individual VAT cuts, affects this precisely. If we want more fish to be eaten by people or more grazing livestock and healthier beta fatty acids from grazing animals, then we need to help these goals by tax policy. "Let me ask you," he said in a previous speech to make it a base for agricultural professionals in the Hungarian countryside, "I would like to ask that, if you think so, you help the education government to ensure that neither environmental agricultural engineers nor ecotoxicologists are stopped from training in the higher education sector. And in the end, the undivided is common. All I wish you is good luck here. What I'm saying is that this money isn't enough for this, and as an agro-ligarch who deals with these things, I know how much it costs to scale the undivided joint. Thank you very much. [[András Tállai: You are!]]
u2015-05-29-28	No further two-minute comments, so we continue with the normal comments. I give the floor to Congressman Erik Bánki, on behalf of Fidesz.
u2015-05-29-29	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In relation to the bill on the 2016 budget before us, I would like to talk about two extremely important areas: tourism and sport. Tourism is one of the driving sectors of the national economy. We know that it accounts for 9 percent of the total GDP generated and that it accounts for more than 11 percent of domestic employment, with over 400 thousand people employed in this sector. This is important and important not only because it employs more than 400 000 families, but also because it can create jobs in places and areas where it can generate revenue in areas where other sectors, such as industry or the R &amp; D sector, cannot. I am referring primarily to rural settlements and areas where the infrastructure supply, the background of human resources and the institutional background have not given them the capacity to install other industries, otherwise listed primarily in the production sector. In these places, there is no other option for people than to move towards the service sector, and tourism offers a particularly good opportunity. Not only because of the increasing number of domestic guests' travels they can move domestic guests, but also by the data of recent years more and more foreigners are visiting Hungary and, thank God, they are spending more and more guest nights here. In the first quarter of this year, 1.7 million tourists arrived to Hungary, who spent a total of 3.8 million guest nights in Hungary, which is a very encouraging sign in terms of the growth rate of 2015 as the number of guest nights in commercial accommodations increased by 5.4 percent in the first quarter of this year compared to the first quarter of 2014. This 5.4 percent increase, ladies and gentlemen, means that Hungary is developing better than the European and the world average, because in this period European tourism has only increased by 3 percent, and the world's tourism has also been able to increase by around 3 percent, so we can say that Hungary can produce nearly double the performance of Hungarian tourism in Europe's tourism. In order to keep it that way, of course, it is not enough to sit on our laurels and wait from quarter to quarter, from month to month for better statistical data, but we really need to do it hard to ensure that these positions in Europe and, in particular, our competitors, let us say, remain in the Central European market. In the first quarter of the year, domestic nights increased by 9.4 percent and foreign nights by 8.2 percent. Here I would highlight the domestic growth that is close to 10%, because that means, my fellow Members, that the standard of living is growing, that is definitely increasing in Hungary. This is, of course, due to the economic policy followed by the government since 2010, and thanks to which we managed to achieve that inflation has remained virtually zero for three years, so it does not exist, the taxes of the poor have disappeared, while a very strong and dynamic real wage increase has started in Hungary. The visible signs of this are also reflected in the recovery of domestic tourism, since today, thank God, people can spend more and more money to travel, relax and relax. After trade and construction in Europe, tourism has now developed into the third largest sector. I think that you can take up a similar position in Hungary, because if I say just one comparison data, then the amount of added value generated by tourism and the number of people employed is more than the income generated in the field of agriculture and the number of people employed there. So I think this is also proof of the role and importance of the sector. [[10.50]] Let's see how the next year's budget figures turn out. If you look at the amount of the tourist destination, it shows more than 10 percent increase, as it amounted to 4.9 billion forints in 2014, and now it is close to 5.4 billion forints. I think this is extremely important, because, as I have just said, it is not enough to look proudly at the statistical indicators and to be satisfied with the performance of the domestic tourism sector, but to do something to ensure that our competitive positions remain. In particular, we need to move forward in the area of product development, research and development and marketing in the coming year, and I think that the government's fundamental ambitions and intentions are in the right direction. The Hungarian Tourism Zrt., which performs the national tourism marketing tasks of Hungary, comes from the framework of the tourist destination. financing the operation of next year, in which, as I mentioned, the organisation will be able to carry out a national and international marketing activity, which I hope will continue to sustain this increase in guest numbers and guest nights over the coming years. I have to highlight the importance of the SZÉP card. This was also a cardinal issue in the debate on this year's tax laws, and I think that we made the right decision here in Parliament when we retained and maintained the tax benefits of the SZÉP card against the government's original intentions. The visible signs of this are reflected in tourism today, as 25 percent of the guest nights spent in Hungary were paid by SZÉP card. More than 80 percent of the acceptance sites are in the countryside, so it can be seen that these revenues are mainly due to rural service providers, and I think that by maintaining this system, we can expect the benefits of the SZÉP card in the following year as well. Let's see what other sources of tourism development can be financed in the coming year and in the coming years. Of course, everyone looks forward to calling on our country for EU support in the next EU development cycle. Tourism is not in a bad position either, and we calculate that some HUF 200 billion of funding will be available between 2014-2020. In particular, the development, renovation and development of UNESCO's protected or protected properties, cultural and ecclesiastical heritage tourist routes, as well as the creation of a number of alternative tourism services throughout the country can be supported. Ladies and Gentlemen, I therefore think that, although we can never be satisfied, I myself think that this area needs as much support as possible, as much resources as possible, but these figures can be a good starting point for next year's funding. Obviously, there will be amendments that will be worth considering in substance. Of course, if we could provide more resources for product development and marketing, I think that all the representatives of the profession would be more relaxed in terms of next year's budget. Let's look at the other outstanding area or the area I've highlighted, the area of sport. In 2010, even when it was founded, the government expressed its commitment to view sport as a strategic sector. I think that this was an excellent decision, because, given the results of the last five years, the whole sector of sport has developed enormously. In particular, visual team sports obviously had the highest level of development, as we introduced a unique corporate tax discount system in Europe from 2011, thanks to which our children are now able to prepare with the support of better-prepared coaches in much more cultural conditions, using much higher sports equipment, and, as appropriate, to achieve better competition results both in the generation and in the adult age groups. Obviously, the aim of this whole corporate tax relief system and sports development can not only be to improve competition sport, but also to expand leisure sports, the base of mass sports, and especially to strengthen the movement of our children and their commitment to movement. In 2010, when we started to govern, we were the hosts of Europe, in terms of the proportion of citizens who regularly exercise, as only over 900 thousand people regularly played sports in Hungary, which means that twice a week it takes 45 minutes. Since then, this figure has been nearly doubled, with more than 15 percent of the number of Hungarian citizens exercising regularly, and we are very confident that we will be able to reach the European average by 2020 and that this figure will rise to more than 30 percent. Our children also engage in regular physical activity thanks to daily physical education. I am sure that this daily physical education will also have a meaningful impact in a few years, and children who are used to everyday exercise in primary school and high school will also need this as adults. As a result, society will have much stronger, psychic, physically better citizens, who will be able to expect more work efficiency and much less disease when they grow up. But let's look at the specific numbers. Looking at next year's budget, it is clear that the government is planning a huge step forward on all fronts. I would like to highlight among the facility development programmes the gym building programme, the school building programme and the programme for the renovation and investment of educational and educational institutions. This year, already in 2015, there was a HUF 900-900 million in the budget for gym building and school building. This is more than tripled in the draft budget next year. It increases these appropriations by exactly 330 percent, giving 2 billion 970 million, nearly 3 billion forints for both gym building and school building as well as classroom renovation. This means that the construction of 25 gymnasiums can begin in Hungary, 24 school hotels can be built in settlements, district centres where children have not had the opportunity to participate in swimming education since they were young, and 27 projects will be launched in primary and secondary schools, which will partly result in new classrooms, and partly complete buildings will be renewed in the next period. If you look at the support of re-sports, then the establishment of academic systems for national sports associations and the promotion of replacement programmes will be available for HUF 7 billion in 2016. Ladies and Gentlemen, This amount has barely exceeded HUF 1.7 billion this year. This means that the government has taken its 2010 promise seriously in this area, as well as in replacement training, and is increasing this support year after year to the extent that the economy is able to perform. This will now be a leaping increase for next year, as it will quadruple the support of supply plants and the professional work in supply facilities. The draft budget for competition sports is not forgotten either, as the professional support for competition sports and Olympic preparation is available for HUF 2.6 billion next year, compared to HUF 1 billion 700 million this year, with an increase of more than 50 per cent. This may not be a coincidence, as my fellow Members know that next year, in 2016 there will be Olympics in Rio. By adopting the budget this summer, we will ensure that all our athletes who are preparing for the Olympics or who have already gained quota are able to prepare for them in a secure and calm period of preparation over the coming months. I am sure that my fellow Members will remember those unblessed periods, 2007, the period before the Beijing Olympics in 2088, when, by convening extraordinary committee meetings from the opposition, we had to hear the request for help from the Hungarian Olympic Committee as opposition representatives, beating the government's table, so please, the Olympics will start in months, and there is still no budget number, and we still do not know how much support the Bajnai government will be able to give to the Olympic preparations at the time. [[11.00]] Our athletes couldn't buy equipment, they couldn't buy tickets, they couldn't book accommodations. Imagine the unblessed state, the situation when an athlete, a coaching staff, does not have to deal with professional preparation, but how they will be able to make it to the Olympics at all. I think this is a huge step forward, not only by providing the resources needed for optimal preparation in summary terms, but also by making this decision in time, giving the opportunity for calm and secure preparation. In view of the additional figures, there is also a very significant increase in the promotion of disability sports, as while this year's HUF 287 million was available on this budget line, next year it will increase to HUF 447 million. Let us not forget the support for non-Olympian sports. Just because there are Olympics in 2016, there are sports outside the Olympics, where competition is also important, success is important, since the success of each athlete gives a tremendous boost to the expansion of replacement training and recreational sports. Ladies and gentlemen, for professional support for non-Olympian sports, the budget will be HUF 376 million next year compared to HUF 176 million this year, thus supporting this budget line will be more than doubled. Finally, I would like to mention a very important number, which is to support sport health care. For athletes, it is important not only the facilities, not only the infrastructure and the professional skills of the coaching staff, but also the sports health care they can receive, partly during their preparation and partly during the competition. Well, ladies and gentlemen, more than 20 percent increase is expected here, as the budget for this area is HUF 131.4 million instead of HUF 115 million. So if we look at next year's budget figures, what we see is that in the field of sport, both in the development of facilities, in support of replacement training and in the provision of the sports health background, the budget includes the optimal conditions that will ensure the development that has been seen in amateur sports, re-education and competition since 2010, my fellow Members, will continue to be assured in 2016. I ask you to support next year's budget, because I think it has been prepared with due care and due diligence by the government, and it will certainly make progress this year in the two fields of tourism and sport that I have outlined. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-29-30	I now give the floor to Vice-President István Hiller, on behalf of the MSZP.
u2015-05-29-31	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! I would like to talk about the issue of higher education. Higher education is in a particular situation with regard to legislation. It is not only part of next year's budget proposal, but also the amendment of the Higher Education Act will be brought before this House in the near future. Consequently, if the government has an intention, it can resolve the current situation of higher education on both a professional and a financial basis. I will make the professional proposals in the amendment of the Higher Education Act, and now I want to talk about the financial budget. Let's look at the facts first. At the time of the change of government in 2010, the state support for higher education was HUF 186 billion. In their two plans, named after poor Kálmán Széll, you reduced this by cutting it down very carefully, with the support of HUF 123 billion at the bottom. If we compare it, we can see that there was a shift from 123 billion, something has been added every year, this is happening now, a 3.4 percent increase. However, if we look at the internal structure of this, it can be seen that this is not actually an increase in the integral part of higher education, not the increase in the budget that actually serves higher education institutions. You know, of course, that many training schools are part of public education, but certain institutions of higher education are the maintainers, so the cost of a career model or free children's meals is built here for the right, very good purposes, since the maintainer is a given higher education institution. Thus, the HUF 153 billion, which is currently included in the draft budget support for higher education in 2016, is still more than HUF 25 billion behind 2010 when governance was taken over. It must be assumed then that this is a matter of consciousness. As a matter of fact, not that higher education could not receive at least as much money as in the middle of the crisis, in the calendar year 2010, but that there is an idea that higher education does not need any more state aid, but that the quality of higher education does not depend on this current amount being increased to an extent. That's the view I'm arguing with. I can tell you, and obviously, if you come into contact with colleges, universities, or employees there, then you can know and see that relationships have reached a critical level that is not enough to maintain standards, but rather a fall in quality. I say to you that the budget and the structure in which higher education has been brought does not serve the interests of Hungarian higher education in any way lead to an increase in quality. The objective of maintaining standards has failed. Unfortunately, Hungarian higher education is experiencing a noticeably and noticeably lower level of quality. If one sees not only the numbers, but also the details behind the numbers, then he may know that these clearly support what he has just said. At the same time, it could be said that after four years of labor, after a number of exchanges and many failed concepts, in some cases, there is a strategy that is suitable for debate and professional debate. Let us look at the outcome of this professional debate and draw conclusions from it. Of course, this does not explain the fact that the last five years have done nothing in the field of higher education. Let us be honest that the new national higher education law adopted in autumn 2011 is unacceptable to all of us. All of us are now not the opposition, but for him who understands higher education, whether he sits in government benches, whether he sits in opposition or not in benches, he only knows a little about higher education. Unfortunately, there have been conceptual mistakes there, perhaps because of the lack of time, but rather because of incompetence, which is absolutely necessary to remedy. The strategy that has been put in place undoubtedly carries elements that could in any event induce a sound professional debate. We'll see about that. But, like I said, let's discuss this with the amendment of the Higher Education Act. Rather, the question here is whether this budget, which lies before us, provides sufficient conditionality for the implementation of an otherwise acceptable strategy. I'm saying no. I claim that the fraction of the increase in the budget I have just mentioned clearly shows its internal structure that it is not for this purpose. [[11.10]] Then that HUF 153 billion budget support, in my view, is not enough to achieve the large-scale idea that we have talked about and will certainly talk about. It is essential to remove the current situation of higher education, and in doing so, not only those demonstrations that have been made from time to time because of rash decisions or, as last time, false news show a great deal about the inner atmosphere, the tension that has been caused by the uncertainty of half a decade, its unconceptuality and the neglect of higher education, but also the numerous actors of the teachers, the heads of higher education institutions and the re-established round table of higher education. It is an outrage in itself that for years after 2010 there has been virtually no professional reconciliation of academic interests, because for political reasons, it happens because we created and operated the round table of higher education, so it was abolished by the then management, in a really surprisingly stupid way. Then, when there were major problems and thousands of people demanded the professional amendment of higher education and the resignation of the leading secretary of state, the Minister created and revived the round table of higher education. If you look at the internal structure and problems of Hungarian higher education, I say to you that it is not simply a change of structure, it is not simply different thematic considerations that can stop the drop in standards, but also a different instrument, the instrument that protects the interests of higher education workers and can raise standards. I'm telling you that this requires a wage arrangement. I'm saying that the rise in standards that we all want is impossible without financial action. I therefore propose, on behalf of my group, to the honourable Parliament, that it consider amending the current budget proposal before us and that it be accepted in higher education, honourable pro-government and respected opposition representatives, the legitimacy of the reason for a 20% wage increase in higher education. To be precise: we recommend a 20% wage increase for higher education teachers, a 15% wage increase for non-teachers in higher education. Since we are talking about a budget and I do not want it to remain in their heads at the level of a political slogan, I will therefore describe the details of this proposal. With all due respect, I would like to ask you to consider continuing this debate. In Hungarian higher education there are 16,000 employees and 6 thousand employees in teaching. Their current salary is HUF 118 billion a year. If you take 20 percent of this as a raise, it is HUF 23.6 billion and the related contributions. They don't work in teaching jobs, their current salary is HUF 60 billion. In the case of a 15% wage increase, this is HUF 9 billion, plus contributions. If we add all this up, I'm talking 32,6 billion forints, plus contributions, rounded up to 42 billion forints. I propose to you, please consider that, in order to raise the quality of Hungarian higher education, you are proposing this 42 billion forints in the budget. I am not saying that all problems of Hungarian higher education can be solved through wage-setting, but I say that without wage-setting, the problems of Hungarian higher education cannot be solved. Therefore, I ask that we take advantage of the opportunity that has been the result of conscious planning or the mechanism of government, which happens to be that within a month we talk about the budget and the amendment of the Higher Education Act in Hungarian, there is the opportunity to discuss and decide on the internal structural issues of higher education in the case of the professional law, to make the right decision, and there is the opportunity to create the financial conditions when negotiating the budget proposal. I say to you that whatever structural change, whether it is the best direction, I will not rule it out, it is in it, it cannot achieve results without providing financial conditions, and it is not the structural transformation in itself that is necessary, but the correction of motionless higher education wages for more than half a decade, a 20% increase and a 15% increase. If we are not simply talking about wage planning, but we are also allowing you to examine the reasons for it, then you also obviously have experience that the entire Hungarian intellectuals, the Hungarian teaching and research community - so that I do not bring another topic in detail to the Hungarian audience - are in what proportion those who imagine their present, their near future, are no longer in Hungary. I say to you that the intellectual emigration that can now be detected in Hungary, not in spots, but in context and magnitude, is very strongly linked to the current situation of Hungarian higher education, the uncertainty that characterizes the whole area. I would like to say to you that if the structural settlement and the above-mentioned financial settlement and wage arrangement, as I propose, does not occur, this intellectual emigration will become irreversible, irreversible, and in Hungary good-quality instructors, truly qualified researchers will leave the country without being able to serve our country as a whole and the nation as a whole. This, honourable Members and Members, is not, in the traditional sense, a brain drain, not only the brain-drain, but also the fact that different countries, which spend very significant amounts of money on research and education, and now not only to the west, but also to the far east, are taking away individuals or teams from the Hungarian higher education and research sphere, but also from the Hungarian higher education sector, and some of the Hungarian teachers and researchers are either leaving themselves or looking for the possibility of leaving Hungarian higher education. Changing this, halting this process and raising the quality of Hungarian higher education is a common matter. This is not a pro-government and opposition opinion, but only a responsible political opinion and should be seen. It is important to have a meaningful debate on this. As I said, when we amend our professional proposals to amend the Higher Education Act, we will do so. The financial proposal has just been made. In all respects, the HUF 42 billion, which I spoke about, which includes contributions, was not actually a real burden for the budget as a whole. In order for this to happen in Hungarian higher education, it is necessary to make a sound political decision. Finally, please consider the situation and mood of the institution, the rector, which has a training school, and the budget increase in its own institution consists in raising the wages of the teachers of its secondary school due to the model of career in public education, and not giving a penny to its own academics and researchers. [[11.20]] It doesn't take too much experience, it causes internal tension, which is indeed once again leading to a deterioration in the quality of higher education. I therefore ask you with respect that our proposal for the Budget Act, which includes the higher education wage arrangement described above, be considered, adopted and voted in favour. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-05-29-32	I now give the floor to Matthias Firtl, representative of KDNP.
u2015-05-29-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On Wednesday, I listened to the advocate of the German minority self-government and just heard the Slovak advocate. As a national MP, I am obliged to express my joy here in Parliament, that we have finally come to the state where national minority advocates really have been able to represent their nationalities, their national governments in an appropriate manner during the budgetary negotiations, and that they have been able to make the statement that, indeed, this budget meets all the expectations that the past, if I may say so, has left behind for a decade and a half, and that it gives rise to great hopes for the future. Thank you very much for these speeches, because this proves that the system of advocates is still working and useful, because their proposals to be submitted are taken into account by the government. Allow me to make a parentheses comment. Yesterday, with Secretary of State Soltész in Kópháza, we presented a kindergarten of nationalities after a renovation of more than HUF 120 million. When I mentioned to you there during my welcome speech that as a nationality, I can now say to you here, to parents, teachers, local government representatives and mayors who are present, the proportion of the future budget for 2016 to support nationalities, they came to applause, as it was about the fate of the children who lived there, the fate of the next generation, when we handed over such a beautiful kindergarten. But for the rest of my comment today, I would like to focus on the defence area. Ladies and gentlemen, As a result of the better performance of the national economy than expected, we have reached the point where, after the necessary legislative changes and the fundamental transformation of the defence system, our government can dynamically increase the resources for defence. In 2012, the government undertook to keep the defence budget at nominal value in 2012 in the years 2013-2015 and to increase the chapter by 0.1 percentage points per year from 2016 onwards, and the total amount of aid by 2022 to 1.4 percent of GDP. The implementation of this commitment will be included in next year's budget. Ladies and gentlemen, The main amount of support for the defence chapter includes the provisions of that Government Decision, according to which the defence budget will be increased from 2016 onwards in order to achieve this commitment. In order to achieve a GDP share increase of 0.1 percentage points, the chapter expands by HUF 48.1 billion compared to the total amount of support in 2015. This represents an increase of 22 per cent compared to the previous year's appropriations, so that next year's budget amounts to 0.77 per cent of the estimated GDP and 0.85% of the total expenditure. The 22 percent increase also means that next year's defence expenditure will rise to almost HUF 300 billion by HUF 50 billion compared to this year. The increase in defence expenditure was announced by Prime Minister at the NATO Summit in Wales in September 2014 and Hungary has started to approximate its defence expenditure to the NATO average. According to the agreement, NATO member countries will reverse their defence spending and within a decade all NATO members will approximate their military expenditure to 2% of their national total. I would note only in parentheses that not only Hungary did not meet these requirements, but many other countries did not. That's why we had a special talk about this at the Welsh Summit. Our government's intention to do so is clear, because the budget figures are already pointing towards the fulfilment of NATO commitments. The budget chapter on defence covers, inter alia, the development of salaries as part of the introduction of a military career model. It provides cover for the substantial launch of the development work of the papal base airport, for the Hungarian accession to international action against the Islamic State, for the holding of the European Union battle group, jointly established by the Visegrád 4 member states, for the implementation of military technology programmes and for the provision of the necessary resources for a more balanced operation of the Hungarian Defence Health Centre. The sale of incurrent materials and redundant property not used by the wallet may provide additional resources to maintain existing defence capabilities in order to achieve the new military development objectives. Ladies and gentlemen, Our government considered it one of the priorities of the years following the 2010 elections to create a state that serves the interests of the common good, the nation and the community instead of the individual. In the framework of the development of the new public service career model, the government decided to introduce this year a new military career and, in this context, a reform of the salary system of the military defenders. According to the Government's intention, all members of the professional staff will receive an average increase of 30 per cent of their wages and a increase of 5 to 5 per cent per year until January 2019. I would like to note here that in the course of the budget debate, the opposition's benches have been accused of the fact that the increase in police and military salaries will not take place, but the budget, on the other hand, contains these items, which cover these commitments. The new salary system will result in a large increase in salaries for all Hungarian soldiers, which applies to the entire military career. Hungary's central budget for 2016 includes wage increases. The budget proposal covers the employment of more than 25,000 soldiers, civil servants and government officials, which could provide an opportunity to increase the current number of staff and, as an impact on the development of salaries, in particular for the contractual staff group, the possibility of reducing the vacant posts. Hungary's economic situation is increasing year after year, so, in line with our commitment, more and more will be given to defence. I trust that this economic performance, which we have achieved so far, will, indeed, continue to be able to fulfil the course of the Hungarian Defence Forces that it has undertaken in NATO, in international engagements, in an appropriate manner. Thank you for your attention, and I would like to ask my fellow Members to support this budget in the interests of the Hungarian Defence Office. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-29-34	I now give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik.
u2015-05-29-35	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The bill on the 2016 budget submitted to this House at an unusual time - which in previous years is now as usual by the governing parties - is unprepared and unconventional. The only thing we can discover in the figures is some consistency, namely the fact that for the fifth time we can see a sharp increase in the cost of public operations, a steady increase in the budget share of expenditure planned by the State to spend on its own. All this trend can be seen despite the fact that for the fifth year we have been listening to the horse-zung on the reduction of public spending, the loud phrases on cutting red tape. As a concrete example, I would like to highlight only the latest government achievements, state reform II, the bureaucracy reduction programme, and the public debt reduction programme, which is also aimed at reducing endless spending, making efficient and rational use of available operating costs and capacities. [[11.30]] I fear that those who have drawn up this draft budget bill have not read any of the above statements, strategies and programmes. With the amendments I have tabled, I would like to draw attention to only a few things that are important to me and to the Jobbik Hungary Movement, which are beneficial to the Hungarian people. In recent years, we have done much for the healthy education and physical development of youth, within which the introduction of everyday physical education was one of the milestones. It is regrettable that the substantive conditions for the full practical implementation of this endeavour are only partially available. The gym and school building program is an extremely important goal, which, in my opinion, deserves much more than HUF 3 billion to be spent and cared for. In practice, there are schools where they learn theoretical physical education within the framework of everyday physical education, and from this there will be written accountability. There are institutions where there is a lack of a room, while one class actually plays sports, the other watches games and theoretical videos. However, the most common practice is that children jump up and down the halls of the school and run up and down the stairs during physical education, because there is no suitable place for them. I think these examples adequately show how a good idea at the level of daily practice becomes a laughing stock and, over time, unsuitable because of a lack of resources and a complete lack of adequate preparation. For this reason, we would like to increase the training room and the training facility with HUF 5 billion in the budget. The small source of expenditure proposed by me to redeploy could be the public service contribution. According to the draft, the government intended nearly HUF 70 billion for this purpose. Of this amount you can spend 191 million forints a day each day of the year. From a day's amount, two brand new, average fully equipped gymnasiums can be built, or at least four existing ones can be upgraded and renovated. With the reduction proposed by me, the sum of the daily lot amounts to nearly HUF 150 million. I assume that the so-called public media service tasks can be fully solved, in Hungarian: the 24-hour broadcast of the Fidesz-propaganda. Sport and movement, however, are not only important for school-age people, but also play a very important role in society as a whole, both at the level of individuals and at the level of smaller and larger communities. Achieving the various sports goals depends not only on physical facilities and investments, but also on people's attitudes, the social acceptance and support of sport. The importance and effects of sport and movement cannot be stressed enough, as positive physiological effects can be interpreted and assessed from a budgetary point of view, and in particular health expenditure cuts can be achieved in the medium term. The promotion of sport is therefore an objective that deserves significantly more than the planned small budget of HUF 22 million. Similar is the case with the development of sport strategy and sport sciences and innovations in this area. I would like to raise the additional resource proposed by me by HUF 200-200 million, which is an opportunity to achieve strategic planning and professional development in the field of sport based on real research and analysis, carried out at the highest possible professional level. The source of the proposed additional expenditure is partly the National Tobacco Trading Nonprofit Zrt. I wish to make it at the expense of its operating costs. If you have already said in the Tobacco Act that health preservation is the main goal for young people, then let us promote sport among young people, which is one of the best types of health preservation. National Tobacco Trading Nonprofit Zrt. I think it is outrageous in itself to support its operation from the central budget. For years, the tobacco market has been the scene of the rampage of government arbitrage, the operating costs of the artificially controlled tobacco trading system have been over HUF 440 million, according to the draft, which is excessive. In comparison, I would like to mention the Organised Crime Coordination Centre, which can count on a similar operating cost for 2016, although its tasks are significantly more important and of greater weight in my opinion. Although the fight against organised crime may not be the objective of the current government to explore concentrations at state level. In the draft budget, I would also like to talk about two other areas for which the draft has been undeservingly low resources. One is support for anti-doping activities and the other is support for non-Olympian sports. Combating doping and protecting the cleanliness of sport are areas which affect the social acceptance of sport as a whole. The reduction of doping is also significant from a health point of view, since unfortunately, the use of performance-enhancing agents is not only in top sports anymore. The various drugs are made with the most modern tools and significant financial costs, so fighting against them also requires considerable effort. Although support for non-Olympian sports in Hungary has increased in recent years, the number of people who cultivate these sports has also increased greatly. Due to the difference in the level of financial and other subsidies, the social gap between the Olympic and non-Olympian sports is increasing. Therefore, I think it would be necessary to start these sports on a developmental path, showing that Hungary considers it important to improve the conditions of athletes, coaches and leisure athletes who play sports in non-Olympian sports, and the importance of their positive role in social life. I would like to raise the additional expenses proposed by me from the consultation expenses planned by the Prime Minister's Office for HUF 600 million, because I do not know what, perhaps for conversations between us, we need that much money. Perhaps even the remaining amount, the source, should be enough to make the subject, content and outcome of these consultations known to those who are paying for this, i.e. to the Hungarian voters who are paying the tax. Thus, in the case of expenditure in the field of sport, it can be concluded that the HUF 2.9 billion appropriation for the gym construction programme will be dwarfed at HUF 45.8 billion for the construction of various stadiums, especially with a high Tao resources present in these associations. I would like you to accept my amendments. Allow me to talk about one more thing because of the shortness of time. If we compare that you spend nearly HUF 46 billion on stadiums, and we have tried to present a bill of amendment in every budget debate over the last five years, which you have rejected in each budget debate, namely, the amount spent in the IVF, the assisted reproduction programme, in the common language, to support those involved in the flask baby programme, we would have liked to bring before the House several times, but you have voted against it all the time. We are in the middle of a demographic crisis, and in some opinions, if we cannot stop population loss, this process will be unpredictable and irreversible. The miracle of life is the birth of a child, a new life. Children's blessing today is not available to many families in Hungary. This problem affects nearly 300,000 families, and it is not usually because of their own fault, nor because of a disease, they cannot have children, but often even doctors cannot answer why. It's possible, by the way, stress, improper nutrition, all the poisons that get into our system. This can all contribute to the failure to produce a child naturally. Anyone who doesn't have a similar problem doesn't know what this intervention means for these couples. I am just mentioning one big problem: these couples have to produce 300-400,000 forints on their own, and the first intervention is not usually successful. Therefore, we would like to give a HUF 3 billion grant to these couples, which we would separate for a purpose so that couples who do not have the right share can apply for this money, and we can give couples with this opportunity to have a great desire for their lives and have children who do not have enough money to do so. This should not prevent them from having children and raising them to the best of their knowledge. I ask you to support these amendments. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-29-36	I now give the floor to Congressman Dénes Pigeon, on behalf of Fidesz. [[11.40]]
u2015-05-29-37	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. In the general debate on the bill on Hungary's 2016 budget, before us, I would like to touch on three areas. One - and here I will also argue with my colleague Szilágyi - about how the reduction of bureaucracy will occur within the budget, the other being the tasks of the Committee on National Remembrance in 2016 and the third area: the objectives of the budget in the area of business development. Dear House, Debate and I will begin my debate with my colleague Szilágyi: this budget is a period of calm, calm work and balanced governance. It is a realistic, accurate, planned central budget, one of the most important questions of which is how much money remains in the population, in the people. In recent years, the income of a wide population has increased with the state on the one hand engaged in responsible management, the level of public debt has decreased and financial discipline in the public sector has increased. This is true of local governments and municipal systems, since a local government can no longer be indebted as it also requires a state permit to take out a loan. What I would like to talk about first of all is the reduction of bureaucracy in terms of central government. It is welcome and important that the government considers it necessary to reduce bureaucracy, which is in the same interest of the public and economic operators, which will be linked to the third element of my speech. I think that cutting red tape is absolutely necessary to further improve the country's economic competitiveness. Let us first look at how more efficient, faster, simpler public administration, public administration, and what additional services the state can use to reduce or ease the burden of everyday life. On 1 January 2011, 14 regional government administrations were integrated into the metropolitan and county government offices. At the same time, a number of regional government administrations continued to operate independently and the former fragmentation was maintained in part. Therefore, in order to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the government's territorial tasks, internal integration of the metropolitan and county government offices became necessary, I would add, which was also the basis for a unified government administration, which is of the utmost importance, since the previously defocused regional government administrations functioned either in a way that did not serve its effectiveness or in a double subordinate function. This could in no way be justified by economic, administrative or other means. Internal integration causes significant organisational changes, as the number of levels of management has also decreased significantly, and the integrated task-solving of independent administrative bodies and core office departments has also been highlighted for closer professional cooperation. Thus, the law adopted in the course of this year was also an opportunity to remove the duplication of tasks. In the process of cutting red tape, the work of the State Reform Committee, which was asked by the government - which my colleague György Szilágyi considered to be a flawed concept, was to draw up proposals that I would like to list only by example. From January 2015, the deadline for administration has been reduced from the current average 21 days to 15 days, which can be extended by up to 15 days; and by autumn 2015 - the positive impact of which will continue to prevail in 2016 - as a very important step as well as as as part of the state reform, there will be a further 200 government windows, so that a total of around 250 government windows will serve the interests of the population at that level, but also of businesses, my fellow Members who have not dealt with this issue in such depth, I regret that my fellow Member Szilágyi will not be able to put in a fast and very operational position in the use of EU funds, not to suffer long deadlines for administration. In particular, I would like to refer here to the fact that the system of construction management is also changing, and in view of this, construction legislation will also serve the purpose of achieving building permits with a real one-stop shop that would not lead to a delay in the evaluation of proposals. Returning to the government windows, it is also a targeted task of this system, i.e. a system transformed from integrated customer service offices to government windows, to assist in the effective transmission, processing and reception of documents in the new financial system and in the new national utility service system. I would also like to add to this the introduction of new public procurement rules in relation to the activities of the State Reform Committee, which are also linked to what I will mention, i.e. using EU funds effectively. This is accompanied by - and here again I am arguing with my fellow Member György Szilágyi - the reduction in public debt from 2016 to 2018; the continuous discharge and reduction of individual court fees will take place as part of the reform of the judicial system. The public service career model will be launched from 1 July 2016, confirmed by the submitted central budget proposal for 2016. I think that this is a very important moment for the 2016 budget, because we know very well, and this has also come to light in the previous debate that this career model allows us to... [[A small child's voice is heard from the gallery. Foreman Novak, the child is crying! Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] What? [[The child weeps, too.]] I'd like to continue, Mr Novak. It's probably not for him. It's for you. Getting to the public service career model, this is an important issue, and I think that we should not go, so I would like to come back with a sentence. One important step in the whole line of thought is that the public service career model - and you can laugh at it, but I think that we do not laugh at it on our side, but we take it seriously - is to move forward with regard to the salary fund that has been frozen since 2008, and I think that the most affected and in the first front line, we say that the colleagues working on the front office line will feel the first effect of this at the district offices. I think it is very right that, even now, at the time of the adoption of the central budget, we should indicate that those who do most of the work and who are definitely worth supporting in catching up and raising salaries will be employees of the district offices. But, of course, the career model is not only about them, but also about those... - and I am going back to the idea that, also in the context of the decline in leadership levels during the decentralisation of government offices this year, it is obvious that colleagues who are given the opportunity to strengthen their activities in recognition of their work in the framework of the career model also serve this. And I think that it is not enough to talk about it, but that it must be emphasised. The next important element, which has been discussed several times today, and which our faction welcomes, is that by 2018 all Hungarian households will have broadband internet, and let us make it possible for businesses to access broadband electronic administration even more. The other area I would like to talk about is the National Remembrance Committee, which plays a very important role. In this respect, the aim was to better understand the details of the Soviet takeover in 1944-45. In 2016, the Committee would like to further expand the physical and personal conditions of effective work and high-level professional activity. In 2016 the committee considered the commemoration of the 60th anniversary of the 1956 Hungarian Revolution and War of Independence as a special professional task. The anniversary of the revolution also justifies the joint research with the Polish joint office on the effects and consequences of 1956, the exploration and release of Russian resources in Polish and Hungarian society and the revolution, in cooperation with the Hungarian Archives Institute of Moscow and the Russian State Archives. [[11.50]] Finally, the third area, which I would like to touch briefly, but unfortunately not deep enough - I would have the opportunity in terms of time, but I will give my fellow Members the opportunity to comment on this - is the area of business development. I think it can be stated that the scale of EU funds is an outstanding source for Hungarian citizens and Hungarian businesses, which must be used effectively, and I agree with my colleague Kristóf Szatmáry, who was the first to speak in today's debate. In the budget, in the 2016 budget, it is to be welcomed that the domestic co-financing part of the funds is also reflected. As my fellow Member has pointed out, more than 60 percent of the EU's total seven-year resources serve economic development purposes. This is the most important of the eight operational programmes, within the framework of the GINOP, and I think that the effective use of this - to which my fellow Member has also referred - is our primary task to ensure this. I think it is important that these resources, this resource system, which is also visible in the budget, are reflected both in micro-crediting and in the SME sector, as well as in the expansion of the occupation or in R &amp; D. We encourage the government to think of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, incubator houses, which we have forgotten recently, when developing specific credit and support products, as well as programmes and plans related to the expansion of employment. I think that the 2016 budget, when it indicates in 2016 that we receive HUF 1,400 billion of funds from the European Union with direct funding for HUF 862 billion in Brussels, will appear in the budget, which should be added, is HUF 538 billion, and I would like to highlight again the amount for GINOP, which is HUF 308 billion, of which the EU will fund HUF 294.5 billion. I think that these figures alone represent meaningful content only if the institutional system, which I have just mentioned, combined with this, allows businesses to improve their opportunities for licensing and access to tender resources. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-29-38	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, on behalf of the LMP.
u2015-05-29-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, We've been debating the government's budget proposal for several days. In the debate, there were many questions in which the LMP fundamentally thinks differently about the situation in Hungary, where we should go from the present situation of misery for many people. The positions were not close, but at least it became clear that the LMP and the Fidesz-KDNP thought differently about the tasks ahead and the tasks for 2016. I think it is important to point out that according to the LMP, the government is not increasing predictability by pushing the 2016 budget through Parliament already in spring. Predictability would be increased if we could adopt a budget that does not need to be amended gradually in the reference year, but we do not know a number of factors yet, which can fundamentally affect next year's budget. For example, we do not know how the situation of the Ukrainian economy is developing and how it affects the yield of Hungarian bonds, and we do not know, for example, how the exchange rate of the forint will develop. It is therefore feared that by early adoption we will simply have to rewrite the budget to a greater and more frequent extent than before. We believe that greater predictability, for example, would need to be based on much deeper analyses, background calculations and background studies, but the government withdrew from the previous year. For example, we do not know what we are spending 113 billion forints on the Paks investment. But let's look at the facts. Once again, the government has demonstrated that its economic and social policies follow neoliberal principles. Everyone is worth as much as they have, social security is an unnecessary waste of money, quality education and health is the privilege of the rich, instead of small businesses, it is the mammoth companies that are important, and the aim of the labour force is to be cheap and not well-trained. This is what Fidesz represents, and in the week behind us, they have repeatedly put faith in this worldview. According to the government, this is a budget for tax cuts. In old commercial law, there was a known offence of giddy praise, which was punished with a prison of up to 3 years and a fine of up to 500 thousand crowns. That statement is abundantly exhausting. This budget has a lot of characteristics, but it's not about tax cuts. They reduce the sapa by one percent, and only those who earn hundreds of thousands of forints can feel something. You can see, as it is so often, that government is once again tailored to communication, and not the other way around, as it should be, and they only decided to reduce the tax rate by 1% so that you could at least say something positive about this budget. However, this tax reduction is just another small step on your wrong path. Most of the 120 billion-dollar release will land again at the richest. They do so by making more than half of the workers today, some 2.2 million people earn under the minimum living. The budget concept of the LMP is as far away as possible. As we have said many times, many work in vain and much if they are paid only for their work. Hungary's most serious problem is that prices are already Western in a range of areas, but salaries are only worth a fraction of Western wages, even though raising the net minimum wage to the minimum level of living would serve our productivity and thus the wage catch-up, thus serving real competitiveness. Ensuring their everyday existence is also a major challenge for those living under the minimum wage, and even from the above wage, from month to month. Their time balance, budgets, and efforts reflect this. They do not have the opportunity to improve their own individual competitiveness, but they do not receive external, state aid, they are closed to a low-wage vicious circle. Mass worker poverty is also a barrier to domestic capital formation and the strengthening of the SME sector, and this leads to the cementation of our lag, even though the Hungarian workforce's education is not yet lagging behind the Western European average. The ability to do higher added value jobs depends on raising wages. According to Fidesz, maybe it's okay for the country to be torn apart into a handful of super-rich and poorer masses. According to the government, it may be possible to feed well with propaganda, even with empty horse-zung, to lure hundreds of thousands of immigrants home. However, we believe that both human decency and economic calculations dictate the need for immediate, large-scale, national wage development. How can this be accomplished? - a lot of people can ask and ask. The LMP employee poverty eradication package clearly shows. As every year, we have clearly indicated where we can see the cover of the steps. We are convinced that it is relatively easy to raise the necessary amount by cutting off other pointless expenses. We wouldn't increase the budget deficit by a single forint. We received it from the government a few days ago, if the problem bothers us, we should submit amendments. We have, and we are eager to see how our proposals will be voted on. We would raise the salary of the least earners above the minimum of living. With the conversion of today's unfair tax system, the average wage would increase by HUF 38,000 per month and the minimum wage by HUF 21,000. In our concept, there is no room for unfair, one-key taxes, the same thing as the bank manager, the doorman who lets him into the building in the morning. [[12.00]] Mr. Secretary of State Tallai has accused us of taking the side of the tax increase. I would remind you that they have been campaigning for a general 1 percent tax reduction for weeks, which leaves 120 billion forints to people, which is also unfairly distributed. On the other hand, we would achieve a tax relief of HUF 950 billion for average and low income workers, i.e. more than five times that. Our other proposal would increase wages frozen in the public sector for the seventh year. Today, the public sector is a third of the workforce's poverty, with nearly 200,000 earning minimum wage or guaranteed minimum wage, i.e. the minimum wage. According to payroll pay classes, today a quarter of the employees, 150,000 civil servants, would earn less than the minimum wage. We would therefore create a new pay table in which the guaranteed salary could not be less than the minimum wage in any step. Today's demonstration of workers in the social sector gives this proposal a special topicality. There is something morbid about the fact that a large number of social crisis professionals themselves are looking for a minimum of living. Their wages have not been raised for many years - we would also change that. There is nothing to wait for in health care - we spend hundreds of billions of people in wage management, we increase the support of specialised care by another 60 billion, so that emigration stops, and the debt of hospitals does not regenerate every year. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] We would reduce the burden on families with children with a family allowance and tax reduction for young people up to 24 years of age. We would increase the family allowance frozen since 2008 by 25 percent. A 30% increase is recommended in the case of a long-term patient or disabled child or in the case of a child with disabilities. Families would also be greatly helped by our rent-apartment programme, which has been in vain for years, as well as the insulation and heating modernisation programme covered by the green investment fund. We would also reduce VAT on basic foods from 27 percent to 5 percent, and not just pork. This would not only save every shopping, but also give the local agriculture and food industry a great boost, creating jobs. And if we were to create jobs: we would set up a Community economic development fund by gradually deleveraging the failed public work that created a trap situation, which would create a real meaningful job out of 70 billion forints next year, while creating value and keeping the profits in place, which would make great progress in small settlements in the first place. We would also make everyday life of small towns and villages easier by renovating the lower roads. The government will spend 160 billion forints on motorways next year, while we have more motorways than the much larger Poland; 160 billion and not EU, but Hungarian budget money. Why? - we're asking. If it isn't the successors of the Public Machine and Lajos Simicska holding hands for assignments. Many could spend this money more usefully to create jobs and growth for the countryside. It is necessary to spend a lot more on refurbishing inferior roads in a shameful state. Thank you for your attention. [[Gábor Fodor applauds.]]
u2015-05-29-40	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next pre-notified speaker was Mr Gábor Fodor, an independent Member. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-29-41	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you for the floor. Allow me to express the Liberal Party's position on the budget in the relatively modest time frame at my disposal. I would like to start by asking ourselves why we have this budget here. After all, this time is unusual in budgetary negotiations because this is not the time to negotiate a budget. It is also strange that last year, for example, the Fidesz government waited for the municipal elections and then held a budgetary debate. We have seen one in a previous cycle when it introduced a two-year budget. The fact that we are discussing the budget now in May, when, in essence, we are aware of about four months of data on public finances, and the issues that Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck referred to before me, that there is such a non-calculable - right, she mentioned the example of the forint exchange rate and other factors - factors and elements that have a significant impact on economic processes that we cannot yet and cannot accurately calculate, these certainly predict that, of course, this budget will also have to be built on as we go, then touched, and then supplemented in such a way. What's the point? What is the reason why the budget is in front of us at this time? There's obviously a political reason, and I don't know that, because we didn't get an answer to that. But if I have brought up the example of a two-year budget, which came after the adoption of a two-year budget with the Little Farmers' Party, there is obviously a political reason, I suppose, for example, for a fall Fidesz convention such a political reason that there might be calculations, expectations that there would be a better budget already adopted. One thing is certain, and I would stress that I would pair it up with last year's debate, which took place after the municipal elections, it is not acceptable in a country that, for example, a budgetary debate is not predictable, it is not properly prepared, it is not the availability of data, but it is essentially being dragged here and there in the system of national cooperation for political reasons. Where we start in October, where we start in May - I think it is unacceptable and unpredictable in itself. My other important general comment on the issue of the budget debate and the budget itself is that we also need to be aware that this budget has, by the way, been brought before Parliament in a law-breaking manner. After all, the Fidesz itself forced a completely meaningless rule through Parliament in 2011, which is about so-called economic stability, and which I would not go into the specific details of now due to a lack of time, but we know that by establishing a link, this rule, in order to deal with deficit and debt in a certain correlation, imposed certain legal conditions, and if we take these legal conditions seriously, this budget should have a deficit of 140 billion, instead it was presented with a deficit of 760 billion. So it doesn't meet the basic legal requirements, nor does it meet the legal requirements set by you. The Fiscal Council gently drew attention to this; otherwise, I think it should or should have been more intensive, because it is a violation of the law. Either this rule, this otherwise pointless and stupid rule, should be changed, or, if you have taken this rule seriously at the time and submitted it, you should comply with the law. If they wanted to comply with the law, they would have to put a austerity package of nearly 600 billion in front of Parliament, or they would be in constant violation of the law, because the stability rules you set up do not comply with this budget. Well, in addition to the general remarks, let me continue with the fact that, of course, what is coming out of the budget in substance is a budget mix corresponding to the philosophy of an authoritarian, illiberal state, in which we can see that the oversized state will continue to be oversized and even further increased, of course, and with all its features - bureaucracy, corruption, which is generally characterised by oversized states - it is likely that it will appear politically in this budget, which bears its autorite marks, as I have said, on its own. It should also be borne in mind that this authoritarian character is reflected, for example, in the fact that it is well known that encryption will also surround the budget in the coming time, as the government intends to encrypt strategic data related to the financing of public finances. What the point is is that no one has ever said this again, but it is a spooky reminder of what is happening in Russia, and what is peculiar to the Russian state of Putin: they have already come to the point that there are items in the budget, significant items that are not even known to Members. [[12.10]] We know why this should be encrypted, of course: the expansion of the public is not in line with the illiberal philosophy, because the public always means that for a wide range of citizens what the government really wants is known. I also think that this is a completely wrong and unacceptable trend, of course it goes against the European Union principles, it goes against Western civilisation. Obviously, it can be inserted nicely and completely into the system of national cooperation, but we should not build on it, but on our own values, which we chose at the time, including in referendums. Well, with the promise of the cheap state - which the Fidesz once said before 2010 - of course the oversized state, as I said, will go against it, but not only philosophically, but also expressable in forints. Between 2010 and 2016, the cost of public operations increased by HUF 2000 billion. We are talking about the period under the government of Fidesz; 2000 billion. This means a large, inhumane state, meaningless, unnecessaryly, as we know, with Sundays closed, it means a state that also covers the private sector, in which, of course, the aim of an authoritarian state is to make as many people dependent on the state as possible, the more people they receive from the state, the more they can be influenced, the more they can be put in a vulnerable position, of course, with the state's dependence. On the other hand, what is unfolding - as I said - in contrast to the illiberal and authoritarian state philosophy - is that we liberals naturally place the liberal states of freedom in front of it, and we want Hungary to continue on the path it started at the time of the change of regime. As opposed to the work-based society that has never been defined, we are setting up a knowledge-based society, a knowledge-based society that István Hiller spoke about in this debate, for example, in relation to higher education, but which we ourselves would like to underline is that rather than oversized public costs, we need to spend money on education, rather than on environmental protection, on improving the quality of life, so on health, but rather on promoting civilization. This budget is not in the context of these ideas, thanks to these principles. The fact that the age of compulsory education in Europe has been reduced to 16 years, the Paks II expansion, the faulty reduction that encourages waste and not environmental awareness, they all go against the ideas and ideas that Hungarian society has said 'yes' for a long time after the change of regime and defined as 'value' for themselves. We, on behalf of the Liberal Party, will present amendments to some symbolic issues, starting with public television, counter-terrorism, which are important in the system of national cooperation, with a budget of zero, and we will transfer the funds that will be released here to both education, environmental protection and the promotion of civilization. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-05-29-42	Thank you very much, Congressman Gábor Fodor. The next announced speaker was Mr István Horváth, Member Fidesz.
u2015-05-29-43	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, The fight against the black economy has recently received particular attention in the whole agricultural area. The black economy damages the national economy in many different ways. Companies that partially or completely hide their activities reduce the revenues of the central budget from several different sides. Trade without an invoice reduces the revenue from the budget, hidden revenues and incomes reduce the amount of corporate tax paid. Taxes and contributions on partly or wholly illegally employed workers also result in this effect. The company's differences in competitiveness are unrealistically shifted, given that with the cost and price advantage achieved by VAT fraud, fair businesses cannot compete in the long term, resulting in either being illegal or simply being destroyed. Taxes and contributions paid by companies thus excluded are also a deficit in the budget. There is also a significant risk of food safety in the supply system for products produced by the hidden economy, since it is impossible to track these products, and therefore their origin, quality and vote are uncertain. The most important step to reduce the black economy in the pig sector was that, from 1 January 2014, the VAT rate for live and half pigs fell from 27 per cent to 5 per cent. The basic goal was to protect domestic jobs and to reduce the large scale black economy. In addition to the increase in the number of animals and the reduction of the competitive disadvantage of fair market players, both the Ministry of Agriculture and the operators in the sector expected the demand for domestic raw materials and the purchase of domestic raw materials to increase. On the basis of a questionnaire survey carried out by the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy, the majority of market participants have a positive view of VAT reductions, some of the operators have already experienced positive changes in terms of willingness to cooperate and payment deadlines. Today it is more worthwhile to buy domestic raw materials, with low demand generally at the beginning of the year, and producers reported an increase in turnover. According to KSH data, the purchase of slaughter pigs increased by 8.2 percent in number and 9.5 percent in weight in the first half of 2014. The imports of live pigs decreased by 11.4 percent in the first half of 2014 compared to the same period in 2013 and by 13.72 percent in August. The turnover of breeding animals has also been boosted, due to the fact that the purchase of breeding animals is also included in the 5 per cent VAT base from 1 January 2014. According to KSH data, the pig population continues to grow. The number of pig farmers increased, on 1 June 2014 the number of pig holdings was 17 percent higher and the number of individual holdings was 5 percent higher than in the previous year. Over a year, the number of enterprises holding the anchovies increased by 12 percent. The assessment of the VAT-based data of the NAV, the monthly and quarterly VAT return data of the first half of 2014, supports the following positive processes. The balance of trade in live animals has improved significantly, as a result of an increase in domestic sales, a decline in exports and imports of live animals. Domestic sales increased by more than HUF 23.2 billion compared to the first half of 2013, with 74 percent of the increase being made by the pig farming, meat processing and livestock wholesale sector. In the first half of 2014, the total VAT reduction in the sector increased by HUF 3 billion compared to a similar period in 2013. In conclusion, the measures so far have confirmed the positive expectations of the wallet and the operators in the sector, but based on information from processors and slaughterhouses, it can be said that the black economy has shifted to a level below the level of meat cuts for pigmeat. Therefore, in view of the fact that despite the positive experience of reducing VAT at the beginning of the supply chain, the pig sector has not been fully cleansed, it is necessary to add other instruments to the fight against the black economy. In order to ensure that the said positive effects of the tax reduction are reflected throughout the whole course of the product, the sale of pig meat should also be subject to a reduced rate of 5% from 1 January 2016. In addition to political courage, such a significant reduction in consumer VAT requires economic strength. The measure leaves some HUF 25-26 billion in the family register of Hungarian families, and it is expected that the consumption of pork will increase, which has been reduced by half in Hungary over the past 30 years; we currently consume 25-26 kg/person/year of pork, with a European average of 42-44 kg/person/year. In my opinion, the supposed 40% black trade in pigmeat will be reduced, the competitiveness of domestic, transparent meat processors and slaughterhouses will increase. [[12.20]] The proportion of domestic meat in retail is increasing significantly compared to imports, and the number of domestic pigs is increasing as a result. New jobs can be created, and we can also preserve and protect old jobs throughout the whole range of products. I think it is important that the reduction of VAT also reaches the customers, which is expected to result in a 17-18 percent reduction in retail prices in shelf prices. I also think it is important that the effects of reducing VAT on pigmeat are continuously analysed and that, in proportion to the performance of the national economy, we introduce the reduced VAT rate at additional production routes, thus keeping more money for families and significantly reducing the level of the black economy in agriculture, the food industry and the food trade. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support the budget ahead of us, which will bring about a growing national economy and a higher income for families. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-05-29-44	Thank you very much, Congressman István Horváth. I give the floor to Secretary of State László Palkovics.
u2015-05-29-45	Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I would like to briefly reflect on Mr Hiller's comments on higher education. First of all, I thank you for your comments and for the new support that you have provided for the higher education strategy adopted last year. I think that this strategy is the result of a process that was not only the round table of higher education, which was re-established and expanded before last year, but was the result of a much wider social consultation. In this strategy, we have summarised the elements that we believe are necessary in order to steer Hungarian higher education, after the continuous changes of the last 25 years, in a direction that will make it a truly sustainable, truly high-quality institution network and institution. I don't want to get into a number-type debate. The Member mentioned that direct support for higher education was reduced by 123 billion in 2013. Here we always mix or compare the wrong numbers. The appropriations were 123 billion. In fact, in 2013 the completion of the higher education chapter was HUF 164 billion, in 2010 the same figure was 190 billion, so the decrease was not the 40 billion, but only 16 billion. The figures also show that in 2014 the performance went up to 176 billion. We do not yet know the 2015 performance, but in our opinion it will approach the actual performance in 2010. This is what concerns the numbers of the higher education chapter. Of course, a few other things need to be added to the evolution of the budget. One thing is that, unfortunately, during this period - this decline has been constantly visible since 2005, Hungarian higher education is characterised by a decline in the number of students. The strategy contains many elements as to how we can compensate for this, how we can compensate for this in terms of the number of diplomas obtained. If we put this together, I think there is a reduction in tasks, and there is obviously a reduction in support. The 2015 budget, compared to the 14th, I think it contained visible growth, and the same is true of the 2016 budget, and the 3.4 percent budget increase for the entire chapter, which you mentioned, is actually HUF 6.5 billion. Obviously, his numbers are based on a complicated algorithm. This HUF 6.5 billion contains only a very small amount of so-called determinations for training schools operated by higher education institutions, so that this is made up of a teaching career model and something else. A significant part of this budget growth relates to the basic tasks of higher education. Just a few examples to understand what that means. One of these increases, and this is what is included in the budget, is only part of it, is the increase of higher education institutions in the creation of a PPP scheme. A large part of PPP schemes, nearly half of them are not fortunate. In part, it is unfortunate because they are bound by conditions that cannot be accepted, but that would be even the least of the problems, as it is only money. The bigger problem is that these PPP schemes are burdened mainly by the institutions, which at this moment is borne by this budget. We have a rural institution where the total budget, more than half of the total costs in real life, means paying for PPPs, otherwise, while the number of students in these institutions is falling significantly, so they cannot really finance it. In any event, the start of these triggers is a very important element in the next year's budget. So much so that if we read the budget law carefully, this amount will not only be available from January, but this appropriation will be open from above. So, as we are progressing with the negotiations on the replacements, the budget will be able to provide the necessary resources and the scale of the resources needed will be significantly higher. The redeployments between the budget lines also obviously do not appear when the law is adopted, they will also be published. It contains a series of elements, such as the previous Higher Education Structure Change Fund, which - I think - has properly carried out the task. In a significant part of the institutions, the kind of restructuring, the kind of restructuring that has resulted in a healthier functioning of the institutions, has occurred. In this sense, this would not be necessary in the future. So we will transform this fund and use it in the direction that applies to the institution's core function. It is already part of the next year's budget plans to finance research and basic research activities, which the institutions will be able to use on the basis of a model of excellence, i.e. a model of excellence for individuals. I would now like to talk about higher education wages, where we stand with that. We are consistently talking about wages in higher education, although this is not entirely correct, because the higher education institution system is one of the systems where income and actually wage guaranteed in the pay table are separated. Just to say a few numbers - and I would deliberately say these figures only for the period 2010-2014 - in 2010, the total cost of income, i.e. the income paid, and the public costs of this, amounted to HUF 205 billion for the entire Hungarian higher education. If you look at the main expenditures of higher education, this has been around HUF 500 billion since then. In 2014, this amount was HUF 224 billion, so the total cost of income increased to HUF 224 billion. This means that we have expected an increase of about 10 percent. If we look at the fact that during this period the number of students, the calculated number of students - I know that this is a difficult thing - is what represents the educational tasks of higher education institutions, this calculated number of students decreased by 13 percent during the same period. This was not followed by a decrease in the staff of instructors, researchers and employees, although there is also a certain fluctuation. This is about 6 percent, but this 6 percent is not necessarily linked to a reduction in the amount of tasks. If we take these figures as a basis and look at the average monthly income per capita in higher education in 2010, it is important to understand that we are talking about an average income, so the income of the porter and the rector is included in this, then this meant a monthly gross wage cost of HUF 285 thousand in 2010. In 2014, this amount went up to HUF 345 thousand, with an increase of roughly 19 percent. In this sense, although the higher education pay table has not changed since 2008, but income conditions have not remained constant, but rather at the expense of the higher education institutions' own income, which also derives significantly from Community revenue, from different projects, there is no constant. However, I think that it is the distribution of these incomes within the institutions, which is probably unfortunate, so that is something that we want to touch. There are two sources to this. One source is restructuring within the above mentioned higher education budget and the other is the institution's own income. We could say, because this revenue is still there for the institution today, they can solve it, yes, the problem is that the institution requires not only the professor, it also requires the lab assistant from the department, it also needs the staff from the Education Office. If we do not settle this in some form, so we do not settle the pay table or its income structure, then the distribution of these incomes will remain disproportionate. That's what we're working on right now. I can't and I don't want to say a specific number here. We're talking to EDDS about this. What I would like to add from this line of thought is that we are talking again about higher education institutions, where the ability of higher education institutions to earn income is not comparable to that of other areas. The government has already taken a number of measures, and the law will show us what other proposals we have to make to increase this kind of revenue from basic activity, partly from education, to a large extent from research and research. This includes, in this year's amendment of the tax law, the fact that companies can write down the aid, 50 percent of it, within the framework of a five-year contract, from the corporate income tax base, which is granted to higher education institutions. [[12.30]] It's support, it's purely a field trip, so you can't ask for anything. So this is not compensation for an activity. This includes proposing, and this will be seen in the law, that higher education institutions are within their own structure, i.e. the Aht. simplify the R &amp; D and innovation activities within the framework provided. At the moment, it's complicated, it's not even real, that a higher education institution would want to do research and development for a company, let's say. Why are these elements important? They are important because the current, effective start of the support period, which focuses on the innovation capacity of the Hungarian economy, has resources that cannot be used in practice without the intensive participation of higher education. What we are talking about here is that it is not enough to say that we support SMEs for the R &amp; D capacity of Hungarian companies, but to create systems. One element of these systems is the knowledge available in higher education institutions, which we can use in this sense. I think that if we put these together in the coming period, it will not have a negative impact on the functioning of the higher education system on the basis of income and the corresponding structure. The debate on the Higher Education Act begins next week, which contains a lot more elements, but now I wanted to respond briefly. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-29-46	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The next announced speaker was Ms Agnes Kunhalmi, MSZP.
u2015-05-29-47	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The budget not only shows what a country spends on, but also what people and decision-makers consider important at a given age, what they consider to be an investment. Because, in a good sense, a country must not only be run, run year after year, but also be developed and carried forward, because today's politician does not want to live up to what his predecessors left behind, but wants to add and leave something for future generations. He wants people in his country to have high added value in creative and innovative thinking, building smart and intelligent systems. Every rational person in the world knows that successful countries spend on their schools and knowledge to develop, enrich, and adapt to the challenges of a changing world. This budget, which is now ahead of us, is not, unfortunately, a budget for education; it has not been for years. And I do not just mean that there is no sufficient amount of resources in the Hungarian education system, because there is no. But unfortunately, even the little they turn on is spent poorly and foolishly. So this dual problem, the few resources and their stupid use, have now developed and continues to deepen the knowledge crisis in Hungary, which determines the future quality of life, wealth and income of Hungarian people by elemental force. The quantity and quality of knowledge in the country determines the state of the Hungarian economy and the Hungarian industry. There is no discussion that what is happening today in the school system will happen tomorrow in the Hungarian economy. The amount of knowledge and the quality of knowledge in the classroom today will be of the same quality tomorrow, the performance of the Hungarian industry, our economy. The aim would be to develop creative Hungarian industry and economy, create high added value jobs and products, base the market economy on internal Hungarian development and Hungarian innovation instead of vulnerability. This would all be possible if Hungarian education were to do the same. On the other hand, today and for years now, the public budget has been trying to redistribute less and less revenue year after year, the conditions for growth on the revenue side are unfounded year after year, unfortunately, we are in short supply, and we are trying to overcome this deficit with our reserves and with the resuscitation of the future. I deeply believe that there would be an outbreak of this unleading, self-sustaining, futureless world for Hungary, through the rethinking and proper funding of the education system. It is a fact that the 2008 global economic crisis did not spare us much of its efforts and of its achievements previously. But to get back on our feet, you can't save money from that school. There is no need to go too far, already in the neighbouring countries, Poland and the Czech Republic, the results of recent positive reforms in education and the smart spending of resources are and are already being achieved. It was recognised once again that the money spent on school is still the best investment, not only in the long term, but also in the medium term. In Hungary, the figures show that ten years ago, in terms of spending on educational expenditure, we were not at all ill- standing compared to the European average. Including the most critical years of the crisis, the real big cut and withdrawal started in 2010, unfortunately. The previous GDP-to-GDP ratio of around 6 per cent fell close to 5 per cent by 2013. The reduction of nearly 1 percentage point of GDP means hundreds of billions of HUF withdrawal, and this can be done in the moment of nationalisation of the school system. At that moment, 200 billion was taken from public education. So we're surprised there's no chalk and paper at school today? This is extremely harsh and drastic withdrawal, which is not without consequences, unfortunately. In our opinion, this should not remain this way, and this money should be returned to Hungarian public education. So today it is not only about building a very closed, inflexible, inadvisable school system that develops low competences, but it has also taken away the resources that could make the education system better, and even significantly because of the withdrawal. We are now at the point of filling the holes, which is what we see in this budget, because public education is in a state of collapse, see the condition of the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Center. Teacher wages, despite the fact that left-wing and now right-wing governments have been raising them in the last 12 years, are still very low. But what's worse and ominous is that they're taking money from other areas of education for wage development, regrouping, not raising the base. Ladies and gentlemen, Although, despite the serious system problems that we have discussed many times and we have said to you here in this House, a significant part of our amendments to the budget are aimed at making smarter use of resources so that the system does not collapse. First of all, we provide the opportunity for KLIK to make up for the shortcomings already felt in 2015, so that the wage increase of the teachers' staff for the years 2015 and 16 is fully fulfilled by law, twice the ten percent promised wage increase, compensation for the high wage of qualified teachers, and the costs of the compulsory three-year advances required by the Public Education Act for teachers. There is also an urgent need to supplement the salaries of the specialist teachers, to immediately renovate the digital boards and to ensure the source of school textbooks and equipment supplies. We should also not forget that so-called passersby teachers need, for example, the rightful, but mostly unpaid, transport expenses for their work to be carried out smoothly. [[12.40]] In fact, we want to secure the purchase of chalk, photocopying paper and countless other tools that are essential for teaching, and we propose HUF 20 billion a year. Please allow me to ask for or ask for money for chalk in a budget, or to make an amendment to this, before the change of regime, but not even in those often difficult post-convertation states, honourable Members. For the smooth teaching-educational work in schools, it is essential that the government finally realizes that the heads of institutions should be entrusted with a monthly framework of things, which allows the acquisition and replacement of basic material assets of schools that are essential for day-to-day operation. We'd like to spend 50,000 forints a month per institution for the ten months of the school year. In addition, we propose the creation of 40 vocational training centres in an amending proposal, with an average of seven people and HUF 3 million/person per year. The government has already decided on the restructuring of vocational training, the right of operators of vocational training institutions to the Ministry of National Economy, and the law also provides for the establishment of 40 vocational training centres. However, the budget planners did not think that these institutions should be operated on a daily basis. As a result of the transfer of vocational training institutions, KLIK's budget has been reduced already this year, since the institutions to be transferred must be staffed. We also did this work, which the budget designers seem to have forgotten for a moment, sought cover and found for the operation of vocational training centres. Furthermore, the introduction of daily physical education is a clear goal, but the government does not provide the schools with the right place or the necessary sports equipment or sports equipment. The introduction of daily physical education was carried out too quickly, I must say, violently. The lack of minimum basic conditions is in vain indicated by professional organizations, teachers, parents, children. Nevertheless, five lessons per week were introduced in an emerging system, while there are hardly any schools in the country where this would have the minimum basic conditions: gymnasiums, sports fields or any sports space at all. In the ascending system, for the 2015/2016 school year, all the years join everyday physical education. At the same time, it is worth assigning financial resources so that children can play sports under appropriate conditions. Support for school sports equipment is an unavoidable issue when it comes to the introduction of daily physical education, not only the place, but also the existence and regular replacement of the tool. We also want to ensure this with our amending proposal. Our next amendment aims to encourage the construction of kindergartens by local authorities and the wage increase of non-tertiary educators. Non-tertiary workers have not received a wage increase since 2008; people who perform a very important task and the vast majority of whom are subject to the Labour Code and are not civil servants. In kindergartens, wage development also affected school educators, kindergarten educators and health professionals at different times and differentiated times in the field of public education. In recent years, the wage development of public service workers has basically affected public employees in public employment and only those with a higher education degree. However, partial wage development has resulted in significant internal tensions. Our amending proposal also seeks to remedy this. Finally, but not least, let me tell you about the complex system of the national talent programme. This brings together public, municipal and civil programs. The promotion and development of talent will serve to stimulate and promote innovation, creativity, create opportunities, combat disadvantage, steer careers in the right direction, career success, social mobility, growth of our economy, competitiveness of our economy and industry as well as the cohesion of communities and society as a whole. The budgetary resources should therefore not be reduced. Since we do not agree with these efforts of the Fidesz government, we will try to remedy the total amount of money allocated to the programme for at least the duration of previous years. This was also mentioned in our amendment proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that our requests can be heard, at least partially. Thank you for listening.
u2015-05-29-48	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi. The next announced speaker was Mr Béla Dankó, Member Fidesz.
u2015-05-29-49	Mr President, Dear House, In the course of the budgetary debate, my fellow Members have already addressed the issues of waste management, national park directorates, nature conservation proposals, concentration of small particulate matter, conservation of our genetic resources and energy, in addition to general budgetary issues. Now I would like to share some thoughts about preserving our natural values. The source of funding for the preservation of our natural values is a chapter-based appropriation for environmental protection targets. The 2016 framework allocation for the Ministry of Agriculture's budget heading on conservation compensation allocates HUF 1.2 billion to the financing of conservation, compensation and damage prevention measures, as well as to the health check of protected and protected natural areas, the establishment and implementation of conservation management measures and the purchase of land under the law on the restoration of the level of protection of protected natural areas. Ladies and gentlemen, Nature conservation compensation and damage prevention measures are intended to cover the costs of damage caused by management restrictions imposed on nature conservation interests and of measures necessary to prevent damage caused by animals of protected species. The funds are provided to nature conservation authorities, regional government offices and nature conservation managers, national park directors. Typically, compensations resulting from restrictions on animals and habitats of highly protected species are financed from this source among forest farmers and agriculture. Damage prevention measures are intended to finance an alert and capture of protected animals. Both legal institutions aim to make farmers interested in protecting protected values, thus preventing any illegal acts that might be committed against protected values and their possible destruction due to their injury. Ladies and gentlemen, The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. Health assessments of protected and protected natural values and areas, as well as the definition of conservation management measures, aim at fulfilling the obligations laid down in domestic, international and EU legislation. The data generated during the health check are used by the Ministry of Agriculture for domestic and international data and for the compilation of domestic, international and EU reports. The amount entered in the budget has been established on the basis of the legal obligations in the field of monitoring of the natural state and on the basis of the data rings to be provided in the report, following a multiannual preparation, with sufficient coverage of each species group, habitat and area concerned. In the case of conservation management measures, the Ministry assessed available conservation management plans, maintenance plans and other types of plans setting conservation measures. [[12.50]] On this basis, the areas for which the definition of nature conservation management standards is still necessary under the statutory obligation and the measures to be implemented immediately or in the short term in order to maintain a favourable conservation situation have been fixed. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. Ladies and gentlemen, The objectives outlined above indicate that the 2016 budget also pays attention to an area as important to our future as the preservation of natural values, which is why I call on my fellow Members to support it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-29-50	Thank you very much, Congressman Danko. The next pre-notified speaker is Mr Sebestyén Vágó, Member Jobbik.
u2015-05-29-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to begin with the first and most important thing, which is not included in the Budget Act in the way that opposition representatives, whether I or the people involved, wanted, and this is the wage arrangement of social workers. I would like to note here that what my fellow opposition Members have said before me is that this afternoon, because of this very reason, the negotiations have not come to fruition, and those working in the sphere do not see that the government is looking for a serious and determined solution to their hopeless situation, so a demonstration will be held, which will be held at half a half past five on the Kodály rounds, and the migration demonstration will start at 5:00, which will come along the Bajcsy-Zsilinszky road to this very point, close to Parliament. I encourage all those working in the sphere to participate in this, or who might see the difficulties of those working in the sphere, and who may even want to turn their own fate into a secure social network system in this country, please express your support by saying that he is involved in this, as the more people there are at such a demonstration, the greater the impact it can have on the government, the greater the pressure on the government. It is true that there is now a date on 1 July promised a partial wage compensation for long-term employees and higher-skilled workers in the sector, but there have been plenty of promises, and there have been concrete promises. I think that, given the number of promises that have not been implemented or how many promises there have been in the past, I think that 1 July is still far enough. I say that we praise the day with a receipt, but, as I said, even if this compensation were to be achieved, it would not be enough, but a much greater increase would be necessary. If we look at the budget numbers, we can see from the fact that it's only enough for a pretense measure that the government has planned for the next year. I think it would be appropriate to change this, and we also have amendments that concern this. I would ask you to consider this, because we are talking about a profession which, if we go in this direction - what I have already said many times in Parliament - will be depopulated, there will be no one left. No one is going to do this job for food, which requires a full man, and compared to what the wage situation is now, a fraction of the work that a person who works in this area does is not paid. So this profession will be depopulated, of course it will be depopulated. My good-looking colleague before me has already spoken about emigration, the emigration of young people, and I would like to mention the emigration of those working in the social sphere. During the 12-13 years that I have spent in the profession, I have experienced many times that we have had to say good-bye to colleagues quite often and to colleagues who we thought were essential members of the collective at the time. I am talking about social professionals with a degree who have been working in the field for years. Their hearts, their brains, their skills, their abilities were also in place, their diligence was in place, only when they had to consider that they were currently looking for the very low amount they received each month with a degree in their degree, against the fact that either Germany or England or Switzerland - because a lot of people are going there - would go out with a disabled, sick child or an elderly person to do care, daily nursing work, they would earn multiples of what they are looking for here in Hungary with their supposedly recognised degrees. It is clear that if a young person has to think about and ensure that he can start his life, that sooner or later he can provide himself with housing and housing, so that he can sooner or later think about starting a family, because his existential circumstances are so assured, if we think about it, it is understandable that he would not want to solve this from that 80 to 100 thousand forints, but that if he has the opportunity, he will go out and do a few years, even if he does not do the work he has done, but he can create the right financial basis for himself. I've had colleagues and colleagues close to retirement, who went out because it was simply their only chance to help their children even to help their granddaughter and provide them with the right basis for a normal and secure start in life. So this is untenable and unsatisfying, and I think it is unworthy of those working in the sphere, that they have been having fun with them for the first time in a year and a half, and they have always made promises about wage planning, the social career model, and the other is that when something is given, either in the form of a bonus or not in the form of a bonus, they give you enough to hurt the employees in the sector and not help them with their wage-setting issues. If we keep looking at the budget, we're experiencing some pretty strange things. We are experiencing trends that, I think, are not good, that in certain areas there are fewer and fewer budgetings. I would just like to mention one example: when I think of the amount that helps people with disabilities to catch up, or even the amount that a person with disabilities can use to transform their living environment in a changed life situation, we have seen in recent years that this is constantly decreasing; compared to what the government is constantly communicating, that he is spending more and more money in this area and is increasingly concerned about equal opportunities and social well-being for people with disabilities. On the other hand, we see a decrease in these amounts, and what has also shown a downward trend for years is to support programmes and benefits for the employment of people with disabilities. This is also contrary to what we are constantly hearing from the government either in terms of promises or in terms of passwords. What is a very important and serious issue, and we have been saying it for years, and even a few years ago it was included in the government's programme, is a question of school social work. We know very well that public education is an area in which the state can see the everyday life of a child either through professionals or through educational institutions. This is the area where, when you meet the child, certain careers that are going to go wrong can be reversed, certain injuries of children can be discovered, certain child abuse, physical or mental child abuse can be discovered, children's crisis can be reached at the very beginning of the crisis, it can be stopped and the process can be reversed, but this requires a professional. It does require social work at school. We find that this obligation has been eliminated in law, by a fine amendment to the law, by slinging it on child welfare services and family support services, while we find that these funding would not increase but decrease. And while I am at child welfare services and family services, there was talk of differentiation, it was said that in more difficult areas than the town of Ozd with the better mayor, where the worker of the child welfare service is much more difficult and has much more to do than a colleague in Sopron or even a colleague in Sopron, this problem has already been raised. We have heard from the Secretary of State that there is a solution to this and that there is greater support for this, whether in budgetary terms or in state terms, and that it is already being developed, compared to the 2016 budget, there is a much smaller amount for these tasks than in previous years. [[13.00]] I'd like to take a few more examples to make the difference between the government's words and actions. One of these is the financing of support services in 2016. We're experiencing a decrease. Compared to this, we have heard from Secretary of State Károly Czibere that, contrary to the bad processes so far, support services will be transformed, they will receive greater support, and thus the system in the country will be more developed. Compared to this, support services have a smaller budget line, including social institutions maintained by civilians. Although a compensation was made years ago to increase their support, we find that this is still not enough. If we look at what is being done either in caring for people with autism, in maintaining homes for people with disabilities, or in running and continuing professional programmes, we think it is unworthy that they, these civil society organisations - they are quoted as having daily livelihood problems and simply become unsustainable in the essential benefits they operate. And I would like to talk to you about two more important issues. One of the things that we started collecting signatures at national level a few months ago - it's coming to an end - and I can tell you that hundreds of thousands of signatures have already come together, and that is the possibility for men to retire after 40 years of employment. Why is this important? On the one hand, it is important - as is the case with the ladies - because it is to be appreciated that someone has worked 40 years. Secondly, the trend that socialist governments have started either by raising the retirement age or by abolishing certain benefits has continued, and the Fidesz government has continued to do so either by abolishing the disability pension or even by abolishing reasonable early retirement pensions. If this trend is taken into account, I believe that men also need the possibility of retirement after 40 years of service. There's always a problem with how we want to solve this. Our amendment will answer that. In particular, we listed this HUF 150 billion, which would be about necessary to implement this, what other sources or other costs could be achieved. What we have not been able to put into our amendment and I think it is important to note is that, apart from the fact that this amount can be produced with today's budget figures, it can also have positive benefits, because in the place of many retired 40-year-old men with employment ties, either a job-seeker or a career-starting unemployed person, or even a middle-aged man who has been looking for work for years, can find a place where he can spend the rest of his working life. This, on the one hand, reduces expenditure, even in relation to the provision of active-age people, when this is taken into account as I am talking about saving from the various forms of support for the unemployed. On the other hand, if a person is transferred to such a status and thus begins to pursue a job, his consumption is likely to be higher, and so what goes back to the state register, which can be re-used, is a larger and higher amount that can be calculated. Think about who would be affected by this question. This question would concern people who, from the age of 14-16-18 years, have been engaged in continuous and generally hard physical work. I think that after 40 years of work in these circumstances, there is a calm old age, and there is a time that you can spend with your grandchildren, especially when you consider that the most recent statistical results show that men have a life expectancy of 62 years. If we take this into account, we calculate that, in today's circumstances - if we only take statistical data into account - a middle - aged man may be prepared not to live to the age of retirement. That is why, and since we have been able to confirm by numbers that this is feasible, the possibility for men to retire after 40 years of employment would be justified. There's one more question I'd like to discuss, that's the question of VAT. This is outrageous, that if we look at the basic food and the tools for raising children in Hungary, I could give you more examples in Europe, we are very high in VAT. I would like to mention one example, and this is not about any other basic food, but about the essential part of life, drinking water. If you look at drinking water, the VAT on drinking water in Hungary is 27 percent, as for all other products, but in Malta and the UK it is zero percent. I guess there's a difference. And then I didn't talk about milk, sugar, meat, or diapers, or baby clothes, or other tools that are essential to raising children. I think that this needs to be changed. If we want to improve the financial situation of Hungary and the people living in Hungary, we should not reduce the tax by 1 percent, which is about an average household, or there may be households where this amount will not even reach 1-2 thousand forints, but let us think about this, so that the price of basic food and tools and products for raising children is reduced to the minimum possible, we say 2 percent. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-29-52	Thank you very much, Congressman Sebestyén Cutter. I give the floor to the following pre-notified speaker: Mr Sándor Bodó, representative of Fidesz.
u2015-05-29-53	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It is difficult to list new things at the very first hour of a budget debate, and so far no arguments have been made. The representatives of all political families presented their views, and we could hear both supportive and critical voices. In this situation, I held an impromptu public opinion poll among the people in my constituency, whether they, who are in this debate about their life and their daily lives, are what they think about these processes. We must honestly admit that, as important and decisive as the subject is, large masses are not moved by the search for connections. Yet some opinions are important, which makes our decision easier and easier. The questioners were moved by the time. It seems comforting that already in the middle of the previous year, i.e. now there are economic conditions in the country that the next year's budget can be drawn up without any particular risk. It is clearly predictable for smaller and larger communities if they have information on the future as early as possible, and the financial and financial future is also important in this respect. This will make it easier to set a family budget, and I think we can set an example from countless aspects of life. This is also a great help even if we naturally have to count on later, justified amendments. Understandably, families are most interested in tax incentives that affect them. The budget and the tax system must show a kind of social responsibility expressed by family tax relief. This increases further in families with two children from 2016 to support 350 thousand families with two children. In a family with two children, where only one parent is looking for you, who is employed at, say, minimum wage, there will be 72 600 HUF more next year. In a single search, but let's say average-wage, two-children family, this savings are HUF 88 200. For two parents with minimum wage, the extra money is 85 thousand forints, for two average earners it can reach 116 thousand forints. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that every forint has a place in a family budget and that these amounts should also be estimated. Everyone's counting on personal income tax changes. We know that from January 2016 personal income tax decreases from 16% to 15%. [[13.10]] Of course, according to the rules of mathematics, this could mean varying growth per family, but the fact is that the 170 billion per year savings, which remain with families, amount to 120 billion forints. The reduction of the VAT on pig meat occupies a spot of interest. This also significantly reduces the cost of living, saving HUF 25 billion for Hungarians. In this area, the development of the economic environment is not just a matter of decision, it is a very important factor. Many people, many families, are helped by increased support for children's meals and free textbook provision for children in lower school. People also appreciate the continuation of the Women 40, as well as the introduction of career models. Of course, in this area, as has been said, there is a serious need to continue, but a responsible decision is a condition for the stability of the whole system. So far, I have essentially considered the budget from the point of view of the individual, the family, but one important part of it is also the decision to continue the specific financing and support of municipalities not benefiting from debt consolidation. After all, this decision will help the population. Overall, the 2016 budget proposal is family-friendly, predictable and feasible. I propose that the Members of this House be accepted. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-05-29-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Mr István Józsa, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2015-05-29-55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, This debate is quite exhausting, but let me get back to the beginning. You claim that this economic policy you are pursuing is good, and I would like to show you why it is wrong. You've made a campaign to scare people with the Bokros package, while Matolcsy's two packs have three Bokros packages of austerity, and since then there's a base in health care, and it's no coincidence that there's more than a hundred billion hospital debt a year. They took off the funding for education. Here is the Secretary of State, when we met ten years ago, as director of research at Bosch, he was not happy about the conditions prevailing in technical higher education, because he was directly involved as a transport engineer. By the way, they showed me excellent things about truck braking stability software, that the truck could stay on its feet if the brake control software worked. This is what we need here, not just software, but a little money for this higher education. As three years ago, perhaps four of them had already struck back at the time, say, about 180 billion dollars in funding to some 120 billion, that 60 billion remains lacking in higher education. So all in all, you're spending 300 billion on buying E.ON-NG storage. It also includes the capital supplement, Mr. Secretary, so I'm not inaccurate, I know that it was 270 billion, but then I had to give a good 90 billion to the MVM to make it work. They have spent 500 billion on the purchase of MOL-Pakets, which has been worth how much, but at least 150 billion less, and there is no effect on the world at all in the possession of the twenty-some percent MOL-Paket on the price of petrol and gas oil, so it is not really a profitable and not a target among the declared tasks of the state and which justifies such sacrifice. Which would justify the sacrifice, as I said, the government should have money for health care, the wage development of nurses, not for the social sphere, as last year's budget and the budget ahead of us show, but what they say is that this government wants to serve prosperity. He doesn't want prosperity for the small, narrow layer that represents the top 5 percent of society and the Fidesz clientele, but much more widely and in the longer term. There is a mention of the great merit of improving the balance of public finances, but let it be said among ourselves, it is quite apparent. When the government was taken over in 2010, the government's debt was below HUF 20 000 billion, currently over 25 000 billion. So there's a nominally 5,000 billion, so there's a 25 percent increase. But let's take a look at the HUF 3000 billion private pension savings that have been used since then, and something has gone wrong with it. So, if you look at this 5000 billion, which is a nominal increase in government debt, and this 3000 billion, together with 8000 billion, you see that you have managed to achieve a 40 percent deterioration in the financial balance of national assets. You shouldn't be so proud of that. The Hungarian economy compared to the stagnation of previous years, and there was even a year when it was a recession, and compared to that, it seemed to expand and expand a little. But not nearly as much, compared to the Bokros package, in the following three years there was more than 4 percent annual economic growth. I think that if you are thinking about economic growth, you should use active tools, even in the area of employment, not just passive tools, as set out in the EU Recommendation, but not spend most of the expenditure over 300 billion in employment policy on the public work programme, but also on active employment policy tools to help create real and sustainable market-based jobs by market players. The government expects economic growth to continue to be pushed upwards by the inflow of EU funds. This is a good idea in general, but it is expected to increase employment, to talk about one million new jobs, to talk about increasing consumer consumption in recent years with very moderate optimism. You expect to see an increase in the inflow of working capital, resulting in an increase in investment. Well, unfortunately, that is not true either, the working capital for Hungary has decreased radically and has fallen. What you guys can show is money flows and non-performing capital inflows. What has been an increase in investment over the past year and a half has been almost exclusively a beneficial result of EU funds. The 2016 budget also contains significant constraints in addition to optimistic macroeconomic assumptions. Once again, they will not talk about this and will project another year of social conflict, because public spending in 2016 is not changing in the right direction. Why do I say that public spending is changing in the wrong direction in 2016? The bill shows that the state's operating costs continue to increase. Welfare spending is stagnating and economic spending is falling significantly. The total revenue and expenditure of the 2016 budget has fallen below 2015 and will rise below inflation, i.e. pension and social expenditure will be reduced in real terms. That's not what they say, but it's real. The economic costs of public finances are falling almost all the way down, as EU funds are temporarily falling in 2016, say it is legal, from road construction to environmental protection, in recent years almost exclusively from Brussels funds, and the M4 project that you are trying to pin on the Union, although the EU has never provided any resources for it, you just assumed that. [[13.20]] Of course, there are also expenditure items in next year's budget that have increased significantly. Among these, the government spends on itself: the state organization spends 100 billion more on itself, the defence spends 45 - let's say, appropriate - and the police spend 106 billion. These last two areas were very far behind, but why the state organization spends another 100 billion on itself, considering that from 2010 you have announced an absolute purchasing stop, and in addition to this purchasing stop, in three years you have bought 100 billion assets and spent on yourself, we say, I know that in fact, every semester I asked all ministries in the form of a question of representatives, what expenses they had, and it was shown that they were ignoring the purchasing stop. I'm telling you, in three years, it's worth 106 billion forints. I would also like to talk about the issue of SMEs. The 2016 budget revenue for the simplified business tax is HUF 83.8 billion - this revenue is HUF 8.6 billion, i.e. more than 10 percent less than this year. That's got something to show you. The government has virtually failed in terms of the specific tax on small companies and the small company tax; previously it has been said that the number of voters of new business taxes will reach 500 000, but this has not happened nearly. In the case of the - word - kata, the budget is HUF 70 billion in 2016 compared to the HUF 56 billion in 2015, with only 13.8 billion for the same kiva compared to 16 billion, so it does not bring the expectations. The biggest problem is uncertainty in economic policy, the result of which is a wave of bankruptcy that has never been seen. In the last three years, an amazing number of companies have been destroyed, much less than newly formed. [[The First of Novak: That's good!]] The European Commission's recommendations are far from being taken into account, but if, unlike Jobbik, Hungary is to remain a member of the European Union, it would be good... [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: That's not what we said! That's not what we said. Don't lie.]] Isn't that what you said? Good. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Yes, I know that I do not want to distort Jobbik's position, and I would not use such terms as my fellow Member has allowed you here. He said exactly that you want to be part of a highly reformed Europe, but you have not defined what a highly reformed Europe is. Maybe there's no such thing. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Only the Union can be reformed!]] That's right. That's right, that's right. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the government will redistribute budgetary resources for the public works programme, as I have just said, for the benefit of active labour market programmes. On the other hand, we see that this year's HUF 270 billion public service budget will increase to 340 billion and that public employment will be increased by another 40,000. It would not be a problem if they could give real work if they could provide real training and a much higher proportion of people currently employed in public work could be transferred to real productive jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that if the economy is doing so well, then let the working people see something of it, which is why the MSZP proposes to start the national wage increase programme, instead of your remote career models, a wage development that will really help the break-ups, the people who are struggling with the burden of labour poverty. If the economy is really doing better, don't spend money on stadiums, energy prestige purchases, but on what it is for: for the country to grow, for the economy to grow and for the welfare of people. Thank you for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-05-29-56	Thank you very much, Congressman Józsa. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Törő, Fidesz.
u2015-05-29-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, For my part, I wanted to comment on the chapter on public education, but in response to what my colleague Zoltán Gőgös said, I can say that there has been an accusation that we have nationalised, and now the accusation is that there is less public wealth than in 2010, which was smiled by my better fellow Members, because I think that the state's wealth has increased well by several thousand billion forints. Just think of MOL or the expansion of the national utility development company with the involvement of other sources, all in order to increase public wealth and have a greater say in the development of overhead costs. Returning to the national public education system, I can say that in order to continue and complete our development processes that have begun in recent years, there is a greater emphasis on the appropriations of the institutions under the control of the portfolio, as well as on the tasks and grants that run hand in hand with the new objectives. This concerns the Klebelsberg Institutional Support Centre, the Education Office, the Institute for Education and Development. On this basis, a number of tasks should be carried out in 2016 to ensure greater public participation in the maintenance of public education institutions, to ensure full implementation of the teacher's promotion and salary system, to help extend faith and ethics education to higher grades, to solve the expansion of free textbooks in the lower classes. The HUF 11 billion HUF 10 million surplus for public education institutions, HUF 2 billion HUF 682 million surplus for non-state public education institutions, HUF 8 billion HUF 600 million surplus for public education institutions and HUF 1 billion HUF 701 million surplus for non-state education institutions would be approved by the budget for the scheduled introduction of the teaching career. The budget approves 1 billion HUF 800 million for the additional demand for average wage and textbook support for faith and moral education organised in public schools due to the up-to-date introduction. Increasing the teaching of faith and ethics and textbook support for years 1-4 and 5-8 as a result of the upcoming introduction to 2016/2017. It will be completed for a school year. The Minister of Education can also provide HUF 400 million in support of the budget chapter appropriations in the small-scale groups. In order to expand the range of beneficiaries of free children's and students' meals in public and non-state circles, the budget provides a surplus of HUF 2 billion in the 2016 chapter. The definition of the allowance for work in difficult circumstances has been clarified based on the experience of the last year and a half. The proposals for the further development of the bonus have been developed taking into account the government's social policy ambitions, the objective of differentiated public service organisation and the recommendations to reduce the rate of early school leaving. A territorial extension of the allowance for work in difficult circumstances will take place from January 2016, and from that date teachers of public education institutions in settlements affected by significant unemployment will also be entitled to the allowance in addition to socio-economically backward settlements. The allowances for staff in public education institutions and their rates are set out in the Annex to the National Public Education Act as a percentage of the salary base. The budget provides a surplus of HUF 2 billion 207 million for the state and non-state sector in 2016 to extend the range of teachers who receive the allowance for work under difficult conditions. [[13.30]] As a result of the negotiations with NGM in connection with the up-front provision of free textbooks, KLIK's budget for 2016 includes HUF 1 billion HUF 500 million in surplus, making free textbook provision available to the entire 1-4th grade. Dear House, Some thoughts on changes to the budget of public education background institutions in the draft law on the central budget for next year. The budget of the Education Office will increase by HUF 1 billion 608 million in 2016 on the basis of the bill. According to the National Public Education Act, the Education Office will provide pedagogical professional services in the framework of public education tasks from 1 April 2015 and contribute to the national single management of pedagogical professional services. Within the OH organisation, pedagogical education centres will be set up to ensure the organisation, coordination of the provision of pedagogical professional services in their supply areas, the operation of the network of consultants and teachers. The aim of the transformation of the provision of public pedagogical professional services is to ensure uniform access to services throughout the country, transparency, efficiency and sustainability of the organisational framework for pedagogical professional services, professional support to meet the needs and needs of public education actors. The OH shall also keep the national list of professional advisors as from 1 January 2015. The resources needed to carry out these additional tasks have been planned in the 2016 budget proposal. The estimate of the CLIK will increase by nearly HUF 17 billion in next year's budget proposal. The main reasons for the increase are: the additional resources of the teacher's salary progression system in 2016, the provision of the resources necessary for the transfer of teachers to the first category, directly assisting teachers in educational work and educators. Overall, the current rate of introduction of the pedagogical career is an average of 3.8 per cent per year, with an additional 13 per cent wage increase for the qualified teachers. Expenditure related to the top-up provision of free textbooks, which will provide free textbooks for the entire 1-4th grade. A source for extending the range of teachers receiving a supplement for work under difficult conditions. An additional resource to strengthen pedagogical services to increase the effectiveness of early childhood intervention. So I stress that all this increases by an extra HUF 17 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, The appropriation of the Institute for Education Research and Development has been reduced on the basis of the 2016 budget proposal, so OFI does not perform pedagogical professional service tasks, and the professional tasks for implementing the national talent programme have been avoided partly to the Ministry of Human Resources and partly to the Human Resources Support Manager. In order to fulfil the data registration and service obligations imposed on primary schools, secondary schools and vocational schools, colleges, as well as educational and educational institutions in medicine, the central support for the provision and operation of a single IT system capable of carrying out day-to-day institutional administrative tasks was submitted for HUF 440 million in 2016. Overall, I think we are on the right track, and this budget can only be supported. I ask you to do the same, and I ask you to vote in favour of the adoption of the budget. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-29-58	Thank you very much, Congressman Gábor Törő. The next scheduled speaker is Mr President Novak, Mr Jobbik.
u2015-05-29-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Unfortunately, once again, a so-called XX. We have a 100th-century budget that refuses to face the challenges of the age. At Jobbik, however, we had the courage to say what the biggest problem was, and we are our solution package. However, before I get to this, I would also like to draw attention to our increased proposal before we face national death, as next year will be the 60th anniversary of the 1956 Revolution and War of Independence. And if it was a Holocaust Memorial Year last year, they considered it necessary to celebrate a similar anniversary, I think that if they do not wish to apply double standards in this area, then this triumph of Hungarianism must be remembered. Therefore, we propose a target, for which we have also taken into account the resources spent on the Hungarian Holocaust Memorial Year, which you have spent. For reasons, let me point out that this would not only be a tribute to the courage of our ancestors, but a memento for all Hungarian people living today. The Hungarian revolution of 60 years ago was about the independence of our country, and thousands of people paid for it with their lives, and a quarter of a million of our Hungarian brothers had to flee from here, from their own country, because retaliation was cruel and bloody. The Hungarian freedom commemorative year, as we would call it, I quote that he wants to do something against forgetting and indifference by naming the unforgivable and irreparable sins and sinners, before the martyrdom of innocent victims. Before you say that these are harsh words, that say, we call a sin unforgivable, before you use such hasty, bold adjectives, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this comes from the official justification of the so-called Holocaust Memorial Year on the government's website. In fact, it's already been moved over as a reason, and I think that 1956 deserves a commemorative year, too, and I trust that next year we will be able to commemorate the 60th anniversary as worthy. Now let's talk about what is the biggest problem of Hungarians, which is also revealed in the budget between the lines, because in one of its explanations we can see the government's demographic forecast for fifty years, obviously based on the data of the KSH, and we can see that the ratio of pensionables above the working age was below 32 per cent in 2010, and by 2060 it will be close to 55 per cent. Thus, the ratio of over-retired persons to working age increases from 32% to 55 percent. It will not be sustainable, let alone a pension system, for which this is actually projected to be used to the idea that this pension system will not be sustainable, but the social security itself, the collapse of public finances is expected if they do not face the fact that although on paper the fertility rate of 1.4 is actually quite low compared to paper, it is in fact around 1 or below 1.4 if we look not only at Hungarian citizens, but specifically Hungarian people. The number of children per woman is indeed an important question, but against this 1.4 official indicator, the Hungarian reality is that the number of children per Hungarian woman is below 1. After all, if minorities officially registered as 13 nationalities, especially Gypsies, are excluded, then we can see that the Hungarian fertility rate is estimated, since unfortunately there are no official statements, you do not want to face this problem, but it is below 1. The population explosion of Gypsy is not only threatening us, but it is also threatening that Hungarians will disappear, and there will be a minority in their own country. As the Constitutional Judge Béla Hell said in his book The End Days of Europe, Gypsyism doubles from generation to generation, while, to add, Hungarianism is halved. In addition, this year it may be possible that more immigrants will arrive, let's say 100 thousand than the number of Hungarian citizens will be born. [[13.40]] Meanwhile, as an economic refugee, nearly one million Hungarians of active age went to the West, which further undermines the proportion of people who are dependent on them. Of course, many other issues, such as the issue of gypsyism, remain behind the harsh increase in the proportion of dependants, but let us now rather stick to the proposals for solutions. Let me talk about this, because unfortunately, it seems that the government does not show receptiveness. However, I have said it many times, for example, my fellow Member, Dániel Z. Carpathian, our proposals for radical VAT reductions, which would be justified, for example, in the articles needed to raise children. State Secretary András Tállai submitted a separate motion from the opposition, a bill, a reduction in VAT on child rearing and basic food to 5%, and he argued very well for it several times, but Péter Szijjártó tends to forget about it in government. The MSZ is talking about it now, and the one who voted the same thing off the wheel. That's why it's time for the Jobbik to come and do it. In fact, here is the state-supported home- and rental-building and purchase programme. The family home-building discount that they want to spot the eyes of Hungarian people is not enough, not only in my opinion, but even according to a population round table. We should also face the fact that not only the pension system should be followed up by inflation, but indeed the family support system. All the more so, because we are taking on a child not for a year or two, but actually for a generation or decades, and so we should be able to plan. That is why we should not only see it for a year or two, but also guarantee that real values will be maintained following inflation. On the other hand, you do not keep your real value, but in some areas you are even reduced. For example, since 2008, the whole of the family support system has been frozen, for example, and I think that it is incomprehensible and totally outrageous that the government intends to reduce the amount of maternity support again in line with previous years' practice. We are therefore proposing an amendment to this, as we are, of course, to the social housing programme, with my fellow Member, Dániel Z. Kárpát, but we also consider it necessary to preserve the real value. We have to face this. In addition, according to this proposal, we want to support the increase in the amount of maternity support, at least in real terms, from the more than 7.5 billion-dollar edition of the Prime Minister's Office, thus reminding the Prime Minister's Office that the livelihood of Hungarian families and the Hungarian childbearing are more important than the acquisition of assets and all kinds of conveniences of their office. Moreover, even considering our proposal to promote the birth of the first child to a greater extent, it would be best to promote birth to the greatest extent possible. After all, the fact that the three children are subject to a undoubtedly serious tax relief on Fidesz's proposal since 2011 is undoubtedly a nice thing. But how many people are affected by this? Very few, because first you have to move from one to two or even one, and this would require up to a million forints of support if you do so in the most desirable life period, say, between 20 and 30 years of age. I would also ask you to think about this proposal; and what else can be done to halt catastrophic demographic processes. For example, the introduction of a social card, which would eliminate the commitment of a living child, so that the amount of family support actually translates into, and not, the passions of, some parents. The second child's discount should also be introduced in a number of areas such as public transport, camping and catering, which today is cheaper for large families only. In fact, family tax relief or family benefit should be extended to a number of other taxes and levies, so that people with lower incomes can make full use of the envelopes with which you often throw, but which cannot yet be used by everyone for low wages and salaries. It would also be justified to abolish the nursery care fee, which was introduced by you during the previous Fidesz administration. Since a nursery presence alone costs money even without food, many do not use it. I think that it would be justified to increase the number and space of nurserys and shelters, but this should not be resolved in such a way as to reduce demand by making crèches pay. My fellow Member, György Szilágyi, has already spoken about the support for the flask baby programme, who has two lovely girls who could have had both children from such a programme. I think that it would finally be justified that, if it had been voted down so far, they should finally support the fact that those who really want to have children can do so, because this is also economically rewarding, which is why they should, for example, face up to our proposal for parental benefits to support parents from the child's income tax if they raise them, especially if they raise their children to work at home. We ask that at least a fraction of these proposals be considered and not voted off unread, as they did, because then we will really get there that Hungarians will become minorities in their own country. That's what we're trying to avoid, and that's what Jobbik is asking for. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-29-60	Thank you, Congressman President Novak. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Czomba.
u2015-05-29-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reflect on some of the earlier speeches. We have heard from the LMP representative that there is a need for immediate and large-scale wage development and wage growth in Hungary, and that the minimum wage should reach the minimum wage. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, of course, the attempt to increase wages in Hungary in parallel with the growth of the economy and in parallel with the increase in performance, as fortunately has been shown in recent years, is a valuable initiative, but if we want to do so now in one step, it would mean that the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage should be increased by 30%, which obviously has a pushing effect on the segments above, and the fact is that it can certainly be enveloped that it could endanger tens of thousands of jobs in Hungary at the moment. So in the coming years, we will have to implement wage development in such a way that the reduction in the number of employees, especially in the competitive sector, is done without endangering employment. Ms Agnes Kunhalmi drew attention to a lot of things about education. I would like to draw attention to one thing - what percentage of GDP is spent in what year - this is also, in part, a demographic issue, on which I would like to say two figures: while in the '90s 180 thousand were finished in the 8th grade, the same figure was 120 thousand in the last year, and the number of admissions was 50 thousand. Another serious figure: now there are 140,000 seats in middle school, high school, vocational school and vocational school, and 90,000 have applied because there are actually so many. So the problem here is not whether or not it gets in, there are capacity problems - quote - there are fewer of us, there are significantly fewer of us, and obviously this will also have very serious effects on the active workforce and pension system and pension provision, which can already be covered. With regard to vocational training centres, he indicated that a small amount of money had been earmarked for this. Thank you very much for your attention, but I would like to point out that the Hungarian Government will not create 40, but 44 centres, and the resources necessary not only for its creation but also for its operation are, of course, available in the budget. Mr Józsa has indicated here that we should pay attention not to public employment but to active employment policy instruments in the coming years. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we have spent hundreds of billions of HUF on active assets in recent years, 2010-2014. It is no coincidence that the increase in employment in the competitive sector is more than 200 000 over the last four years. I could list here from the first job guarantee scheme, the young people becoming entrepreneurs, I don't care, I don't want to burden the people here. I have the good news that in the period between 14-20 there is a large amount of HUF 700 billion available, specifically for job creation, wage subsidies, young people's entrepreneurial activities, i.e. the so-called active instruments that he has missed from the budget. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[13.50]]
u2015-05-29-62	Thank you very much. I'll give the floor to Mr. President Novak for two minutes.
u2015-05-29-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am very pleased that Minister of State Sándor Czomba - he too - drew attention to the demographic problems, and we are talking not only about the problem of immigration, that more immigrants are coming to Hungary, as is the case, than the number of Hungarian children are born, but emigration is also a serious problem, and on the emigration debate day that we were able to keep here in Parliament at the initiative of my fellow Member Gergely Farkas, Mr. When I specifically asked you this at the presidential hearing or here on an oral question, we've only seen a misconception here from everyone else, I'm very glad you dared to say that. Otherwise, it is not alone, because according to this year's representative survey of the Institute of Directions, 59 percent of society believes that population loss is the root of the greatest problems of Hungarians. But I'll tell you something more painful, Mr. Secretary of State, the Compass Institute has also asked you: do you think that the current family policy of the government is liberating to deal with the Hungarian population crisis? How many people do you think thought it was enough? 15 percent. 78 percent say that it is not enough, that it is not enough, so it is insufficient, so we can say that 78 percent of society says that the government's family policy has failed. Moreover, we are not talking about any field of expertise, we are talking about the biggest problem, which you are also the biggest problem because, despite your own bias, we can say, to take on the one with the hat off. But if we say that the government's family policy has failed here, in the most important area, then, please, let us talk about when they are willing to consider the proposals that I have listed now, but we have not yet found a meaningful answer as to whether, for example, they are willing to make the family support system, like the pension system, as well as the predictability of it, to stop talking about its correctness. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-29-64	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman László Kiss for two minutes, MSZP.
u2015-05-29-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In order not to hang these numbers, you have reduced the school commitment from 18 to 16 years of age in an unprecedented manner, which had immediate effect: although the population figures show that the age group was about 3.5 percent lower than the previous age group - citing the data of the KSH - compared with a 9 percent reduction in the number of schooling figures in the vocational schools, it dropped immediately by 4 percent in the secondary schools. So you've driven children out of school, to a much greater extent, who, by the way, would have gone to school under school. If we were to talk about how many children who were not enrolled in high school, vocational school, vocational school, and high school, who would otherwise have been enrolled under the obligation to study until the age of 18, this weight loss would have been even greater. So quite simply the fact that the Secretary of State has said is not a fact that demographic data is due to weight loss in schools, that is not true. On the other hand, this weight loss is due to the unprecedented reduction in your education obligation. It is not that the age limit of compulsory education, the 16 years, is unprecedented, but the unprecedented in Europe, and even in the world, that you have done such a process. These data come from the data of the HCSO this year, and I think that perhaps there is no more exact data. It follows, therefore, that if schools are to be filled with children, they need a good school system and, for example, what the MSZP has previously stated and says is to increase the school's obligation to 18 years of age. Thank you for listening.
u2015-05-29-66	Thank you, Congressman. The next announced speaker was Mr Ferenc Hirt, Member Fidesz.
u2015-05-29-67	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, We have before us the bill on Hungary's central budget for 2016, and I must say that I do not want to find any better words than that of the opposition, why we brought this budget in so early, and I am glad that we were able to bring it in so quickly. Because Hungary's public finances are predictable, revenue is fine, spending can be planned, and we can do that we can really safely bring forward the budget in May so that it will be adopted in June, and there is no need to rush here at the end of the year, unlike the socialists, that they didn't even know how to try to hide the numbers that simply didn't match - but I will come to that later. Moreover, I am very pleased that the debate on the 2016 budget in Parliament takes place as a nationality item, which is also a unique and extremely forward-looking thing. The opposition does not like it, but I must also confirm that next year's budget is, among other things, a budget for tax cuts, yes. Indeed, the draft budget for 2016 contains a significant reduction in the tax burden both in the area of personal income tax, and in the case of VAT reductions, a very serious simplification and reduction in levies will also occur, and we must not forget the special tax on financial institutions, where the reduction and reduction of the tax burden can be regarded as a significant reduction and reduction. This year's general government deficit, calculated and planned according to the EU methodology in 2015, is 2.4 percent, it is a very excellent figure, and we hope that it can be easily maintained with a little attention thanks to the very good economic performance that exists this year, which must be emphasized that Hungary and the Hungarian people have earned this performance. Then, for 2016, next year, the planned general government deficit is planned to be around 2 percent, which - let's just say proudly! - a lot of people in the European Union are envious of us. The most beautiful of all, in terms of the functioning of the second and the third civilian government, with regard to the general government deficits, is that the preliminary plans were, in general, and even calmly, achieved without exception, and even at a lower level than planned. This wasn't the case long ago, and when I spoke István Józsa, I looked at the ceiling here to see if it was moving and if it wanted to break down, but it was well built by the old people, our predecessors. He very much praised the Bokros package and tried to draw a parallel to what a catastrophic situation is now. I want the MSZP - and we're not even talking about SZDSZ anymore - to remind you of what they've been doing for the last eight years, which they don't like, that we mention and bring up very much, but I bring it up. We know that the heritage in 2010 is a broken country and a ruined country, but let's look at how 33 European countries, ranging from Portugal to Turkey, have developed decisive figures for 33 European countries, and where our country stood in this regard. In 2001 the general government deficit was 4 percent, in 2002 the socialists produced 9 percent, in the 33 European countries we were the second among the worst, so we were silver medalists on the podium - so now pull yourselves out! In 2003 the third worst was the Hungarian government deficit for European countries: 7.2 percent. In 2004, they also produced the second worst data, and at that time the economy was a major economic activity, there was plenty of money in the financial markets, in 2004, they managed to produce 6.4 percent. 2005 - listen carefully! "We were the first, the Gyurcsány government had the worst budget deficit of 7.9 percent of the 33 countries," bravo, you are proud of that. Then in 2006 - watch the chronological order! - on May 26, the autumn speech, the grooming, and then on September 17 came out, in 2006, we became the first, we had the worst budget deficit of 9.4 percent, all by telling the Prime Minister in May what they were doing, and the end of it. 9.4 percent after the fall speech - bravo, bravo! In 2007, it was already apparent that something was happening, where only the second worst data was produced by the Socialist-Free Democratic Government by 5.1 percent. Then, in 2008, they really tried to pull themselves together, and from 33 countries we were the ninth worst of 3.7 percent, and it might hurt, but I'll tell you this: in 2009 it was 4.6 percent, in 2010 it was 4.5 percent. [[14.00]] Let's look at GDP, which you are so proud of. In 2002, it was 4.4 percent. That's still acceptable. In the 2003-2004s they were able to produce over 4 percent; in 2005, 3.5 percent, in 2006, 4 percent and in 2007, when they went, I say, the world economy was able to produce 1 percent. Bravo! In 2008, the economic crisis came in at the end of October -7.7 percent in 2009. Let's look at the evolution of unemployment. In 2002, the steering column was taken over by 239 thousand from the first Orbán government, and in 2010 we took over by taking over 475 thousand instead of 239 thousand. You are proud of this, and you say that public employment is just shovel support. Why don't you come to Tamási and I'll show you what public employment is? They're gonna be ashamed of what work they're doing. We opened a small regional product store, and at all available competitive market prices, products that have been worn out long before they can be bought on the markets. So come on, I'll invite you. Then see what public employment is. Check it out in Belecske, where there's 3 percent unemployment, because there's practically people without jobs who don't want to work, maybe they're working gray and black. Look at Osora and these places, come and look at it, and you'll be scolding public employment. I'm telling you, a man's face breaks down what they can say and what kind of people get punched in the mouth. It's scary what's going on. But let's also look at the development of public finances, for that matter, in the budget. In 2001, the general government deficit was 53.1 percent. You guys, when you took over in 2002, you were up to 55.9 percent. In 2003, the general government deficit was raised to 58,6 percent, 59.5 percent in 2004, 61.7 percent in 2005, 65.9 percent in 2006, 67 percent in 2007, 73 percent in 2008, 79.8 percent in 2009 and 82.2 percent in 2010. Compared to this, we're hoping to get it down to 70 percent in the cycle. And then István Józsa stands up and tells us how much debt we have accumulated. Well, please, impertinence, I'm serious. But on top of next year's budget, I'd say LMP and DK in particular about the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. I am very pleased that Paks II will present 113 billion forints in my constituency. for expenditure in connection with the expansion of the nuclear power plant. They claim the nuclear power plant is a crazy idea. Here's the thing... - everyone is supporting green energy, it's very, very important for the sun, wind, geothermals, and I could tell you more about the expansion of other renewable energy sources. It's very, very important. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] But tell me, since there are more than 8600 hours a year, the sun is shining for 2 thousand hours, the wind is blowing 1500-2000 hours, from October to March there is virtually no sun to produce electricity in photovoltaic solar panels - what do they want to generate electricity? Who do you support? I'll tell you what, the gas lobby. Even if they build power-generating green power plants when they have no power, they have to do it either with gas or coal. So double power plants must be created if there is no atom. What are you talking about? Somebody's got to think about what you're talking about. Now you want to make the nuclear power plant impossible, but believe me, there's going to be a problem here when the lignite and black coal plants in Europe, especially in Eastern Europe, stop. Unfortunately, my time is up. I could have said a lot of things. Thank you so much for listening. I wish you good budgetary negotiations. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-29-68	I now give the floor to Congressman László Kiss, on behalf of the MSZP.
u2015-05-29-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, In fact, it is a pity to have my fellow Member's comment, in his speech, to spend about 9 minutes on this subjective history lesson, in which, by the way, I would like to express my appreciation for the blahlahs produced by Fidesz communication and Cubatov, which we have heard here. If you'll allow my criticism of this, there's only one thing left out that Gyurcsány is to blame, so I could only give you a B-plus, but I think there's still room for improvement. However, I think that even knowing myself, who often goes to the peace market, people are about as interested in this blah-blah as a cat on Sunday in the fifth year of the Orbán government. I think it would have been better if, in this speech, my fellow Member had spent the nine minutes not on solving the communication problem above 4 and on defending Paks, but on doing it the other way around. I think everyone would have preferred that, even the Paks. On the other hand, I would like to talk about the national political part. Allow me to begin my speech with a positive expression. During the previous year's budget, I proposed an increase in the envelope for the cross-border reconstruction programme, an increase in the amount of support for cross-border agricultural and environmental tasks, and an increase in the remuneration of ecclesiasticals serving abroad. This proposal, the proposals of the MSZP at the time, was not supported by you, but it is included in this budget. I can say that this time I thank you for the goals that I consider to be good, although a year late, but you have certainly been praised for your support. This is certainly an advantage of this budget from a national political point of view. What is at its disadvantage is said in virtually every national political proposal. If you are looking for a national policy as an independent budget, you can see that you can't find it, because there are many places where these budget points are scattered. This makes it very difficult to carry out a transparent examination of this budget subsystem and the transparency of this system. We always say that it would be more necessary to have a more uniform regulation, a more uniform administrative framework for this area. They never appreciate that. Some of my suggestions, some of the proposals of the MSZP, let me talk to you about this plenum. We definitely consider it important to increase the support of the Prime Minister's national political activity. It is proposed to increase appropriations reduced from HUF 1.2 billion to HUF 1 billion, and the burden of this is the National Strategy Research Institute. The National Strategy Research Institute, I think, is becoming a part of political humor. The bill on him According to him, the research institute's tasks are: to analyse, research, coordinate and develop social and economic space and to strengthen cross-border national cohesion, research, analysis and coordination of our Hungarian national resources, with a view to the outstanding intellectual, cultural and scientific achievements, traditions and social and economic situation of Hungary. Well, that's what the research institute isn't about. He doesn't do this kind of work, unlike organizing a Székely ball, supporting a mangalicafestive and organizing Romanian education. Mangalicafestival was very important to organize, because here, Director Jenő Szász justified the support of the festival by saying that, as an entity, I don't know, perhaps the Romanian state wanted to put their hands on it, and now we have well prevented it by organizing the Mangalica Festival. I don't think there's any need for that here. When we asked where the research that the research institute is doing is, we got the answer that they're classified, because the enemy's hand wants to set foot in here, and he wants to read them. In fact, it can be said that these researches are not readily available to mortal humans. If someone takes the trouble to register on the institution's website, they can get the title of the research, but not the research themselves. There's no need for that. We propose that this money be spent on truly national political activity, and that the Secretary of State, which is supposed to decide on them, should be distributed as he wishes. We think this is not a malicious proposal, because we are giving the government the opportunity to manage its own resources correctly. [[14.10]] Support for cross-border public education and support for the development of ecclesiastical public education institutions across borders are also decreasing. We propose to amend these appropriations. The issue of education and training grants has still not been resolved. For the third year now, families across the border will receive a reduced amount, while, for example, Ráhel Orbán's favorite cooking competition is supported by the government with more than HUF 614 million. I think we can leave the past eight years in this matter, because after the entry into force of the discount law in 2002, we are actually talking about a HUF 22 400 grant, and the Fidesz government reduced it to HUF 17 200. He did so quickly that practically no changes could be made to the invitation to tender until the last year, and the call included a HUF 22 400 grant, but the applicants received only HUF 17 200. In our system, this support was an open form of tender, in which the budget provided the applicants with HUF 22 400 in funding to the extent necessary. We also recommend that the system be open from above and that, if there are enough candidates, the total amount be paid to them. The government said and keeps covering it up to transform the system. For a year now, the government has been talking about changing the system of education and training grants. I would like to point out that the MSZP is constantly a partner in talking about this transformation. The State Secretariat has also promised this, but we have practically neither seen the concept nor had such prior communication taken place. This is the second year that they talk about transforming the system of education and education grants, but this is not happening, but the money is not being paid. Technically, in my written questions, I kept asking when these amounts, with which the government is indebted, were paid back to applicants for more than HUF 22 000, and compared to that, HUF 17 200 was paid back. The answer to this is never, since they are not obliged to give this money to the applicants. Last but not least, I would like to talk about the Unlimited Programme, a programme that is extremely close to my heart. The aim of this is to increase the knowledge of Hungarians across borders by providing an opportunity to develop links between young people from Hungary and abroad to go on a class trip to foreign areas from Hungarian schools. In 2014 there was 1.5 billion forints, and this year the support for this program will be reduced to 1.2 billion forints, when we can see that there is currently not enough money for everyone who wants to visit the countryside abroad. The MSZP proposes that this amount increase. Overall, some progress has been made in the area of national policy, in many cases by incorporating your previous proposals from the MSZP, but at the same time we are talking about an opaque, very fragmented institutional system, where there is virtually no way of looking at spending resources. Thank you for listening.
u2015-05-29-70	I now give the floor to Congressman Pál Völner, on behalf of Fidesz.
u2015-05-29-71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In the EU budget period between 2014 and 2020, compared with some projects launched by previous governments, the Hungarian transport development is about to change, since only sustainable transport investments will be made that can contribute to the long-term competitiveness of the Hungarian economy. Transport development in Hungary has not been experienced since the reform. The period since 2010 has led to the long-awaited development of road networks and related infrastructure in Hungary. The national transport infrastructure development strategy adopted by the Government and the new EU financial cycle 2014-2020 have an extraordinary potential for transport development. Between 2014 and 2020, significant amounts are available from the Integrated Transport Development Operational Programme and the European Network Development Facility for Hungarian transport development, which will be complemented by additional resources. The concept of national development and territorial development defines Hungary as a regional bridge, the features of which represent serious future development opportunities. Using the benefits of our country's geographical location, it can be a link between the northern and southern, eastern and western parts of the continent, and on a transcontinental scale it can gain an unavoidable intermediary role for Asian goods traffic. The economic transformation of the last few decades has led to the development of two major industrial axes in our country. One of them is the automotive axis along the western part, which shows the impact of the European automotive industry, which has been transformed into Eastern Central Europe in the last decade. Following the Nagyszombat-Pozsony line, Győr and the Szentgotthárd-Szombathely-Zalaegerszeg-Nagykanizsa region play a strong role. The region also has a strong link with Adriatic ports. The other major axis is the heavy industrial axis in the eastern part of the country, which continues the Košice-Kazincbarcika-Miskolc-Tiszaújváros line to the economic innovation area of Nyíregyháza-Deberecen-Nagyvárad. In order to improve the further competitiveness of the Hungarian economy, transport investments that strengthen regional relations will therefore be of particular importance in the coming years. The government is committed to making all county seats available twice on two lanes by 2018, while our motorways reach the border in all directions. During the planned road projects, 600 kilometres of new road network will be built in the country with HUF 1500 billion in expenditure, of which 1100 billion will be spent on motorway and expressway development. In order to ensure the sustainability of inter-urban public transport, both for the operation of railway infrastructure, which represents HUF 74.1 billion, and for the provision of rail and bus transport services, the budget bill contains HUF 195.5 billion in reimbursement funding over the year 2015. Together, expenditure appropriations shall provide adequate cover for the operation of transport companies. In addition, 60.2 billion HUF is available for the proper maintenance and operation of the national road network, which is nearly HUF 4 billion more than this year. In addition, next year we can spend 160 billion forints on key road developments from the budget. The development of transport in the EU financial cycle 2014-2020 is intended to boost the economy, increase competitiveness and increase employment, while one of the major winners of the period could be rail. The government has given priority to investments in the development of the domestic railway, which is demonstrated by the nearly HUF 800 billion spent on railway development in recent years. The government sees the MÁV as a strategic partner and is committed to the development of the railway company. The MÁV had previously operated at a loss and was more of a mandatory burden on the state, but today the right steps have been taken to reverse the process, and the railway has become a competitive means of travel and transport. This is no more illustrated than the constant increase in passenger numbers on passenger lines since 2010 and an increase of 3 million tonnes in freight transport by rail. In order to further strengthen the competitiveness of the railway, projects such as the renovation of the section between the Bishop's Council and Debrecen to enable a speed of 160 km per hour can be launched shortly. In recent years, we have made significant progress in the development of domestic infrastructure, but we still have a number of tasks ahead of us to make up for decades of failures. It is therefore particularly important how effectively we can use the resources available in the budget cycle that is now beginning. The 2016 budget will start on this path with a number of investments that can make us all more comfortable on our weekdays. That is why I propose that the budget be adopted. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-29-72	I now give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt of Jobbik. [[14.20]]
u2015-05-29-73	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, We've heard a lot about the budget here, and I'm going to highlight a few areas that I would find particularly sensitive, particularly supportive, or, in some cases, I'm going to tell you what you shouldn't spend on, and it's in the budget. First of all, I have to say that what has been said to me many times is that the presentation of the budget is rather strange and difficult to explain, or in my opinion it can only be explained by political reasons, and the fact that the Parliament has been negotiating other laws since the previous years - or the year when the budget may have been presented earlier - is also realising this. This makes it very difficult to operate. For example, in the morning we had to be in the Ministry of the Interior at a five-party meeting, while the budget debate is taking place here, and the submission of proposals for amendments, and the discussion of very serious topics with a budget, this is not necessarily elegant. But I also have to say that the government asks Parliament for the mandate for next year's budget, which means that it has not received the same discharge from the last year, in Hungarian: we could not see the implementation of the closing account and Parliament could not vote on it. However, not only do we say this, but it is also in the opinion of the Budget Council, I would like to read these few sentences to you if someone had missed it. The Budget Council, contrary to the opinion of the budgets of previous years, could not take into account the provisions of the Final Account Bill, as it would be submitted to Parliament later than the submission of the Budget Bill. In addition, this year the Fiscal Council was much less able to build on the budget revenue and expenditure reference period data, which means that we do not see the previous year being completed, nor do we see how this year is going or what we see is just a few months. So, in this form, it is difficult to give a real, real opinion on the budget, and, by the way, the format of the presentation, as you are pouring the figures for next year into this budget, and you do not add - this was also the case last year - how this is going in the reference year, or what the figures of the previous years have been, makes it very difficult to compare. Turning to some of the budget figures, citing the Budget Council, the Fiscal Council also considered it necessary to raise awareness - this happened last year, too - that the HUF 93 billion, which is under the range of other sales and exploitation revenues, and we do not know exactly what the government intends to sell, or what kind of recovery revenues it would like to raise this HUF 93 billion, which is a big issue and a serious amount, raises concerns for nearly HUF 100 billion. But going forward, and turning to the facts, here are some thoughts about court, prosecutor's office, justice. We are pleased that, as a continuous trend, the costs for courts and prosecutors have increased, but still the salaries of judges - also for prosecutors, but even more so - are far from the European average, rather than at least being an army driver in Europe. If you think that there are others better standing for sure here in the Eastern bloc, it is that in Hungary the salary of a starting judge is EUR 17.5 thousand, and now the same in Germany, which is a medium value, is EUR 41 thousand, but if we compare it to the Croatians, there is also EUR 29 thousand, with the Czechs EUR 26 thousand, with the Slovaks EUR 29 thousand, and we can have a party with the Serbs or other Balkan states. This must be resolved, and, by the way, I do not consider it a good thing that, in all cases, the salaries of prosecutors and judges should move together. I believe that judges have greater weight, greater burden, and that the judges have independence and the administration of judges, and their judgment also justifies a higher salary. We would very much like a series of increases to be made so that we can get closer to the European average, and, by the way, the situation for court administrators may be even worse. We will find a line that programs aimed at raising the level of legal education, 500 million HUF. It's very good that there is such a thing, we just don't know what it is, what it is and how it's going to be spent. By the way, we also tabled an amendment on the subject of justice, the point is that if someone is judged as a victim of, say, a crime and cannot recover it from the perpetrator, the state should at least advance it to him, and then the state will try to recover it from the perpetrator. We've had countless proposals, proposals to amend the law, to change the order. If the unsub has seized property, then first the victim or the victim's relatives - if he is, say, deceased - can receive the compensations they receive, and then the state will try to collect the criminal costs, even for several decades, if he succeeds, but does not push in front of the victims. This has always been voted out, so here we are making a proposal that at least 100 million forints in the first round, but otherwise this cost can be increased - much more important than supporting legal training. There are legal universities, they can provide this training, but the fact that someone is awarded a grant, a compensation, and they cannot obtain it is a much more important question. Due to the time constraints, we are pleased, of course, that the funds spent on defence are increasing in volume, but the direct payment of HUF 115 million to support the Afghan national security forces is excessive. If the mission to Afghanistan went as well as you and our foreign allies say, then we don't have to pay 115 million forints, even if it doesn't seem like much, but pay directly to make it work. Then we contribute to the EU budget: I would like to say this only because it should be clear that we are paying more than 313 million forints a year out of each of our pockets to the EU. Of course, it can be said that there are items that the British, directly towards Austria, Denmark, the Netherlands, Sweden, I would not explain in short notice, but the point is that when we talk about incoming money or the money that we are looking for through applications, let us also talk about the fact that it is about HUF 2200 billion that we are paying out of all our taxes to the EU in seven years, and of course we can say that 12 000 billion forints are theoretically coming in. Of course, we can only draw a part of that, and what we can draw is not always what we need, and what we get is also a lot of it with corruption. So if these were to be deducted, the real economic benefit might be a fraction of this HUF 12,000 billion and be against our direct payments. Of course, in the future, the government promises to spend 60% of EU applications on economic development and job support. We are happy about this, but if this is going to happen, we will be even happier, because for the time being, these are just the plans, but at least here you can say that determination is at least on the basis of numbers at the level of words. Then I would like to draw attention to some interesting budget lines. I found in the browsing of the budget that, for those items, the appropriations that could be changed without any further decision, so that they could be disjoined, of course, there are reasonable items, the payment of various compensations for the State, and I also understand that this is not necessarily possible to be determined in advance, but the various payments under the heading of a provision classified under the Prime Minister's Office are also covered by this category, which is an unlimited amount of HUF 6 billion, which can therefore be passed over, without even a government decision. I can't determine that the various payments... are probably meant to fit into anything, but I can put this in a circle that can be modified virtually without any problems, I think it's a little cynical and unconfirmed. [[14.30]] In the end, I would also like to say that it is possible to talk about the fact that the budget of the hardworking small people has been put before us, but in addition to the exultation on the macro numbers, we also have to look at the fact that GDP per capita in Hungary still means that we are permanently last among the Visegrád states, although this has not always been the case. So the joy is limited in this circle, too, and the surrounding countries have gone by our side. Unfortunately, the wages of Hungarian workers do not even account for a quarter of the Austrian or German workers, but the number of State Secretarys and Deputy State Secretarys has increased to an unprecedented extent, with more than 50 State Secretarys and more than 100 Deputy State Secretarys. This, for example, we believe, is not justified, and the government should start cutting back on itself. So I think that these starting numbers should certainly be thoughtful for you, and this budget should now be withdrawn, and it should be brought back in the autumn more thoughtfully, in agreement with the opposition in an appropriate manner, because believe me, we are interested in Hungary being successful, we are interested in ensuring that income is distributed properly. We're not against it. Of course, you can help Jobbik to get on the government as soon as possible, and so this can be seen as a goal, but since I think that is not what you want, it would also be better to consider our proposals. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-29-74	State Secretary Robert Répássy has applied for a statement. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-05-29-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Congressman Staudt, I was originally prepared to speak in a longer speech about the budget for justice, but since the Member has just touched on this subject, I think it is right that we should talk about it now, at least then there are those who are interested in this issue. The budgetary support of the courts in 2010 was HUF 64 billion 915 million, which was defined on the basis of the Budget Act adopted in 2009. This is HUF 90 billion 529 million in the 2016 budget. So in five years, the court budget has increased by nearly one third. This year, too, the budget support of the courts is HUF 87 billion in the current budget year. In 2010, HUF 46 billion was spent on personal benefits, which in 2016 was HUF 53 billion, so personal benefits were also increased in the court chapter budget, probably in parallel to the increase in the number of people. There is also a very significant difference in real estate expenditure. In 2010, there was still HUF 10 billion in the real edition of the court chapter, among which investments were obviously included; I think because some of the investments will be shown separately this year. Compared to the 10 billion, in the draft budget law of 2016, more than HUF 15 billion is the real edition of the court chapter. It is also worth comparing the budget numbers of the prosecution chapter. In 2010, the public prosecutor's budget was HUF 28 billion 448 million. This is HUF 39 billion 779 million in 2016, i.e. almost HUF 10 billion more in support of the prosecution; here, the increase in funding is higher than a third over the five-year horizon. Here, too, there is a significant increase in personal benefits, as well as in real-time expenses. So I have to say that the fact that you're telling me, otherwise, is real facts that characterize the wage situation of those working in the judiciary, doesn't necessarily come from the budget of the court budget and the whole justice system. So I would rather say that, as the court and prosecutor's staff increased, the income of those working in the judiciary did not increase to that extent. I would add that right now there is a bill in front of the Parliament, which will increase the salary of judicial staff from 1 July - primarily the writing and secretary's wages - by 10%; this is what we remember, because we discussed this bill together. So I believe that the Parliament is spending more and more on justice, and that, in addition to increasing money for justice, the amount of investment in justice has, of course, increased. Several court buildings are being renovated and even new court buildings are being built. This was not typical before 2010. For at least 4-5 years before 2010, the judiciary suffered by the fact that they were able to renovate only very small courts because of the amount of renovation for small court buildings, and now the budget provides funds for the renovation of large courts with thousands or even tens of thousands of citizens. So what I'm asking you to do is assess the budget for justice. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-29-76	I now give the floor to Secretary of State, Miklós Soltész, on behalf of KDNP.
u2015-05-29-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The presence of churches, on the one hand, and the presence and functioning of civil society organisations, on the other hand, is of great importance to the Hungarian nation, our country, not least, to the work of nationalities either here in the National Assembly or throughout the country. Therefore, the Hungarian government and the budget, and I add, the Fidesz and KDNP fractions have decided in recent years to continuously increase and support the work, opportunities and activities of these areas. This is also the case for the 2015 budget, when, if we only look at the fact that civil society organisations could manage more than HUF 2 billion this year than in the previous year, if we consider that nationalities received more than HUF 2 billion as a subsidy this year, and that our churches could count on billions of HUF plus budget support for the continuation and completion of their large investments, then this was certainly a positive process in recent years and this year's budget. This process will not be modified, hanged or even continue to increase the aid next year. Looking at the 12 percent increase in the area's budget, it's definitely a huge achievement. I'd like to highlight two areas here anyway. I would like to highlight both the lives of churches and the support of nationalities. It is important and necessary to highlight the churches because beyond what they do with their religious activities, they hand over to hundreds of thousands or millions of people as part of their faith-life activities, and they take on an extra social task throughout the country that is desperately needed, and I add, they also provide a huge opportunity for the needy and caregivers with their presence. This is the case in the educational area, in the social area, including in the elderly, in disability care or in any other area of activity, in the protection of children, the activities of churches. I think that these are the tasks that will certainly serve the whole of society, which will help society as a whole, which is why our churches will receive the support they have already received, to the same extent or to a greater extent, in the future. Let me highlight a few things here. In addition to the continuation of the great church investments that affect the Catholic, Reformed, Greek Catholic Church, a separate item has been included in the budget, this is the development of the Evangelical Church of Győr insula Lutherana. [[14.40]] Unique support, huge, big investment, it's been replacing development for decades. I would like to highlight the increase in subsidies, which, I think, concerns every small settlement in Hungary, the increase in the income of church personnel serving in settlements of less than 5 000 inhabitants. Anyone who knows this area a little, knows that there was very little support for this area before 2010, over the last few years the second Orbán government has supported and increased the opportunities here, but next year there will be a further increase in support, with a 34-percent increase in income. This means that the budget will increase, support or support church activities in smaller settlements by HUF 500 million. I must also add that when we talk about churches, the national political tasks of the churches, and the strength of the Hungarians, must also be monitored and supported and helped. This is why it is important for the Hungarian budget to double the support of priests and clergymen serving abroad for the previous income substitute. This will double from next year onwards, which will help them stay in the country even more, will help in the fight that will take place for the Hungarians to survive. This is certainly important, especially in sporadic settlements, especially where fewer Hungarians live together, but still struggle to survive. It is absolutely important to point out that support for the church-built heritage conservation, which has been very successful so far, from which many churches, has been renewed, will also increase in the following year. Dear Parliament, Let me also highlight the role, role and support of nationalities among the changes here. I would like to thank your parliamentary advocates as well as national minority authorities, because with their work, the result of joint cooperation is that their support will continue to increase by HUF 2 billion in the next year. This means that, in fact, national support has doubled in two years. This is also important for the country, because we all live among nationalities or between ourselves, we have nationalities in our kinship, and in order to save and survive their language, their culture, it is important that they receive this support, which can be used in part by national authorities in the area of local and regional authorities, they can mostly use it in the area of built heritage, which is very important, and it is essential that they can use it to organise their various programmes, whether for camping or for the organisation of cultural programmes. I think that Hungary is an example in this area of support for neighbouring countries, we are setting an example within our nationalism policy, and this also affects our national policy, because there are a lot of national governments who, taking up contact with their mother countries, are much more helpful in helping the Hungarians to stay there by getting the message to them, being positive to them, and often being positively attached to it. Thank you, on the one hand, for the work of all those who have given us this opportunity in the budget, even within the Ministry of National Economy. I also thank nationalities, churches and civil society organisations for their work this year, and once again I can assure them that the 12 percent increase that will serve this area will strengthen their lives even more. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-29-78	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Bernadett Wind, on behalf of the LMP.
u2015-05-29-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Before I turn to the specific budget, I would like to recall a little something that Prime Minister said just over a year ago before the Hungarian-Arab Economic Forum. The Prime Minister said that it is worth investing in Hungary because the Hungarian labour force is surprisingly cheap compared to its quality, and the Hungarian labour code is extremely flexible. In Hungarian, the country's prime minister was selling to Arab businessmen during the eastern opening, selling Hungarian workers by not costing much, and we are even vulnerable. Orbán said that we are making less money than we are worth. This is the real conception of Viktor Orbán's statement at the time. And the fact that he called it a surprise is interesting in two ways. On the one hand, because common sense, I think, dictates that if you work well, you should be paid a decent wage. And the second thing Prime Minister might have thought about in this forum was the message that we are in the fifth worst position of the 28 EU Member States if we look at the wage level. Moreover, Prime Minister did not exercise restraint and did not reverse his thinking on this, as he said at the Chamber of Industry event that Hungary's most important competitiveness factor will be the cheap labour force, among other things, in the coming period. So Hungary's Prime Minister set the country on a course five years ago, which is about working cheaply and preferably well in this country. We can clearly see that this budget, which is now being negotiated by this House, is roughly the continuation of this policy. In this respect, I could also say that it is a budget of change. Technically, you, my honourable pro-government colleagues, believe in a cheap labour society, that people are slaving, that they cannot make a living from their work. This does not bother you, because Viktor Orbán has stated that there will be full employment here, and somehow he does not add to the fact that there will be a famine of millions of people behind this. Mr. Secretary of State Czomba is also here, and he is quite normally saying, from statistics, the reading that is so to say favourable to the governing parties. The latest figures of the HCSO talk about employment above four million, but Secretary of State Czomba never, never adds that behind this there are a lot of public workers working for a hunger pay, more than four million people who live on income below a minimum of living, does not add that half of the taxpayers, about two million people, are below the minimum of living, and does not add how many people leave abroad because they do not see a perspective at home. But why would he stay home, I ask, in the country of cheap wages, if we are in the fifth worst place among the EU Member States? In Hungarian: here, in Hungary, you will receive much less money for the work you do in the West of Hungary, we know that food costs little more on average than in Hungary. This is the most important problem, and I think that this budget, if it should be about something, would be how we can raise wages in this country, how we can give Hungarian people, the working people, the opportunity to pay everything, the bills, the education, everything they need to dress up, so that they can buy medicine for themselves, so that they can sometimes go on vacation or to the theatre or live decently in this country. And you know, when I talk about these things, I quote exactly the people I meet every day, and they say that over the last five years, what's changed is that they can't afford them anymore. Okay, well, there's no acquittal for the previous governments either, because technically, you're doing nothing but what your predecessors did. Over the past 25 years, we have been constantly watching the movies of trying to attract foreign working capital to this country, and it is possible to work for cheap wages in various factories, in various assembly plants. Let me add that the atmosphere below you has also heightened in terms of the fact that every number and criticism of the government is about the fact that there are no jobs on which to build in this country. There are no fixed-term, no full-payment jobs, announced to make a person feel that there is a sense of stability and tranquillity in his life. I think that as long as you remain in government, the Hungarian people will not have the good feeling that they will finally get some air and start to deal with things that are important to them, because they live in a constant fear, because in addition to the fact that you do not mate employment with livelihoods, I also have to say that you have a special talent to keep this country dependent. However, the system of community service and the kind of virtuosity and centralization fever that you have achieved, and what you are continuing in this budget... - and even though we are putting in any number of modifications, I very much hope that you will at least read them and consider them. Because this is the latest feudalism in this country. I don't suppose you are, but maybe someone will look at the OECD report that is going through 350 pages of the situation that you should consider in order to be able to move forward. [[14.50]] Do not listen to me then, because I am an opposition representative, but listen then to those expert organisations, whether they are civilians or international organisations, or to the OECD in this respect, and note that the most serious problem is that in some countries there is an end to decent jobs; the jobs that make the future and planning predictable for people. In general, it is said in the report that one third of jobs are made up of jobs that are poorly paid, have a low number of hours and typically require low qualifications. This report also draws attention to the fact that if this phenomenon comes up in a country and this has happened in Hungary, social inequalities will increase. And this, in addition to being a sociological workword, and you do not look at me now and note on the paper that social inequalities are increasing in Hungary, I would very much like you to understand what I am saying, that this is a direct way to break down and reduce our competitiveness. It is also the OECD's proposal that governments do something to ensure that this does not happen. I can put it completely prosely that the rich are getting richer and the poor are getting poorer. For example, in this budget, I have a problem with you riding on this horse, and you will carry on with it. Let me give you an example: you are now making it possible to talk about, in principle, that you want to ease the tax burden, and that is why we are getting a 1% reduction. If someone makes 1 million forints in this country, he can keep about 10 thousand forints more in his pocket. But if you're registered at minimum wage, you can only keep a thousand. I can also point out that, for example, the secretary of state, who now have a lot of them, and the richer people, will have more money in their wallets. What's going to happen to people on minimum wage again? And I don't have to tell you that, but I'm gonna tell you this because maybe Fidesz-KDNP hasn't heard enough of the minimum wage for the minimum living. The problem is that you cannot assess that this line, which you have guaranteed to this country over the last five years, will turn into a tragedy in many respects over the next three years. In the statement of reasons for the budget, you indicated that the government's ambition is that everyone who wants to work can work, and that is why full employment is a goal, as one of Viktor Orbán's most important government slogans. You claim that, through the budget, everyone can take a step forward in 2016. Now, please, you can, of course, go to community service, because I would like to draw attention to the fact that next year there will be 240,000 public workers in this country. We've just uncovered a scandal about bleeding sectors employing public workers because they can't afford anyone else. I think that you should take responsibility for this too, I can say that half the government is involved in this, because many ministers have watched for years, without any meaningful action, that people are being kicked out of their jobs - civil servants, civil servants - and that public workers are coming instead. That wasn't it, please. You have justified the public work system by trying to help people who do not have jobs in the primary labour market to find their way back there. That's out of the question. What we're seeing now is that everyone in this country is saving where they can because you've completely voted in favour of giving it to someone who already has, who doesn't have it, to keep it the way it was before, or worse. Let's take a look at these community service spendings because they're very instructive. You're throwing 25 percent into last year's budget, so this program will cost HUF 340 billion, and I can see that in a few years this project will last up to HUF 500 billion. This means that about half a million people will be working in community service. There are two problems with that. Let me add that, in parallel, you are taking the money from the active labour market instruments, i.e. the instruments that have proven to be effective in creating the opportunity for the labour force to find a job and find a job. Only a third of the aid amounts for 2010 are spent on active labour market instruments, i.e. they have practically been reduced in recent years and only half of the funds are allocated to adult education; while public work expenditure will be increased by 25 percent by last year and, by the way, by 5 times compared to 2010. So this is precisely the employment policy, which is the way to nothing, but I cannot call it an employment policy; it is a public worker policy, in which you are not interested in anything but to provide statistics with results that can be boasted. Because Viktor Orbán likes to boast: if he is in Strasbourg, he boasts, if anyone is coming to visit him, he boasts at press conferences, and behind these numbers there are people's misery, nobody adds. Well, I'm gonna add it from here, from the opposition, and then I really hope I can change this completely flawed concept from government sooner or later. For 25 years, this country has been watching the cinema that we cannot get out of the employment crisis. And to the great disappointment of many people - my esteemed fellow Members of the KDNP, Fidesz - you are the government who also does not do this, despite what you have promised. And here's another chance. A budget is about how to rephrase the goals a little bit. Well, no! I don't know, these are the kind of times that triggers full employment, and I can see behind the numbers that you're practically completely unscrupulous about how much taxpayer money you're pumping into it. And I have given you two reasons why I would like to tell you, and I want you to understand that this kind of pumping up the community service system is problematic for two reasons. One is that a strong Hungary cannot be built on public work. That takes jobs. You don't have a job creation programme, you haven't had one in the last five years. They have a community service programme, they have a constantly expanding public service programme over the past five years, and you do not mind that this obvious scandal has started, which is about the fact that people have to work for almost 50,000 forints instead of getting their wages previously received on the primary labour market. And there are certain other employee rights attached to that, although they are not very strong because of your new Labour Code, but they are certainly better than the potential of a public worker. In this budget, we would give you HUF 1 billion to check it with precisely targeted labour inspections to see exactly what is going on under the heading of community service. The May Other Politics says that we have put in a bill that would close all the loopholes, and that would help people who are afraid of slipping from employee status to public worker status, and I would add that there should be a control system for the implementation of the law to be controlled, and we would give you HUF 1 billion; in addition to creating jobs, I will talk about this. The other reason why this constantly expanding public work programme is an opportunity for Fidesz to look in the mirror is that only the government is investing so much in a public work programme that does not believe that these people will ever be able to return to the open labour market. Technically, the strategy that comes back in this budget is that you have given up ever having a place for these people in the open labour market. You are interested in one thing, so that you can deliver for the statistics. I think it's infinitely sad on one side and outrageous on the other. I think that they should also consider, since they are thinking so much about public works, to understand that every year public wages account for a smaller proportion of the minimum wage, we are now at 70 percent. These people's livelihoods are getting worse, while their opportunities to, for example, find a job or start a business are all cut off. They're practically there in community service, completely invisible to companies, completely invisible to labour centers while they're working, then there's nothing waiting for them. I think that if you're so involved in the community service program, you should give these people rights, the May Other Politics is constantly putting this down in the bill, but you're not interested in it, you're just interested in numbers. But then let's look at the numbers, because we're talking about a budget. Once again, I would like to cast Sándor Czomba, because in recent times, you have also constantly boasted that the minimum wage has been increased. Mr. Czomba always says I don't see him in the room now, but I would like you to respond to this, when you will finish saying that you say that you have raised the minimum wage by HUF 27,000. Look, it's a gross sum. What people can hold in their pockets with this is 8,000 forints. Be honest with me. Respect the Hungarian people enough not to talk about the fact that in a country where the state takes a lot of money and we can keep very little in our pockets, you should not talk about gross amounts. Tell me the truth, let's talk net. There's 8,000 forints left in the pockets. The other thing I would very much like the government to think about is that - and Mr Czomba also used to say that - wages have been raised by 10.8 percent at the national economy level in recent years. I may be the first to give the bad news to the Fidesz-KDNP, but I will take the criticism of this, but I would like to tell you that wage recommendations are not being followed. The biggest problem is that you can lie again and slide about how successful the wage recommendation system is, but what we see is that only companies with strong trade unions can achieve these increases. [[15.00]] Now, you obviously don't like strong unions, or you wouldn't have broken your rights. But the good news is that Fidesz-KDNP has the opportunity to strengthen the rights, because we can see that only those sectors or companies where there are strong trade unions can deliver the wage recommendation, that employees' representation is active and that it is strong at sectoral level. So these are the two slips that I really wanted to correct, and I don't have to say that in our amendments, according to the wage increases, according to the demands, and according to the country's strength, not out of credit, as you like to say, but from our own strength, which we have for Hungary, we give the wage increases that we can for the people who are constantly working for the wages that we deserve in this country. So, we've been through a number of government errors here. The single-key tax is constantly criticized by the May Other Politics, an infinitely unfair system, the taxation of low-wagers was also a fatal mistake, and the increase in contributions was also a fatal mistake, and these three reasons are in any case why net wages cannot grow in this country. By the way, with the pull that they have taken and implemented a 1% tax reduction, but I say that those who are State Secretary or earning well can keep 10,000 in their pockets, and those who have a minimum wage will remain a thousand, so that at this level, the budget will fall from HUF 120 billion, while, for example, the public sector's wage increase programme would be urgently needed in this country. Employee interest representatives are asking the government to do so, and I would quote the Health Action Alliance, for example, to treat the human resources crisis in health rather than a 1% tax reduction. So, if that's the way you stand for health care and social workers, then what can this country hope for, what can the Hungarian people who get sick, who pay for health care, what will they get? Health care is collapsing over our heads, social workers are leaving the streets today, and you are submitting a budget to the National Assembly that completely forgets about these people, even though they are asking openly for what they are asking for and even demanding on the streets. Public sector: they haven't received a wage increase in seven years. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, How long do we have to watch this? And don't give up to me again the government panels that we are constantly hearing, but tell me with decency when the wages will be reached so that the Hungarian people will feel it, and we should not finally be the fifth worst-performing country at EU level, and we should not have to watch more and more people from Hungary go abroad to support themselves and their families. Our conviction is that we need a complete change of direction in this country, and we cannot continue with the policy and the attitude we have seen over the last 25 years. Viktor Orbán used great words in his five-year evaluation today, and I can only say that one thing is great in this country and that is the poverty of workers. And this government has done the same thing as its predecessors have done in the last 25 years: they sell cheap Hungarian labour to foreign investors, and they wonder if we will remain the assembly base of multinational companies. You have done nothing but turn this into a turbo, despite all your promises, and you have added the community service programme, and we are practically looking at it and we are constantly experiencing this shame that the Prime Minister of the country is practically peddling the fact that, compared to how well-trained we are, how cheap we are working for. This is the respect for the Hungarians! What's the matter with you? This is what they thought when they told the Hungarian people that Viktor Orbán was fighting for more respect, to say how cheap we are, and that we work so well, come here? Shame, I'm serious. This economic paradigm, as it is, has completely failed. We need a complete change of model here, and we also try to put down not ideas, but concepts and concrete proposals in our amending proposals, from which if we consider a few, we can take a small step forward. Obviously, a complete paradigm shift is required, and I'm sorry, but based on the experience of the last five years, I don't necessarily see you doing this right now, but I'm asking you to at least look at the corrective intentions of each proposal and see the people behind it. I'm talking about the people who are behind the money that we're going to get you to. See that health worker, see that social worker, see the farm program I'm talking about, see the people who may have been out of work for decades, but they could finally walk the Hungarian countryside, insulate the Hungarian houses, in which the elderly people cool down in winter, because we put practically such lifelike suggestions on your table. The other question is, there'd be a lot of things we wouldn't spend a penny on. It is certain that we would not give a penny to Paks II to raise the capital, otherwise to this day I do not know why you want to give it, János Lázár could not answer the question, and I hope that in the written question you can justify that HUF 113 billion. We wouldn't give a penny to build motorways when it's specifically about building small access roads between villages. We wouldn't give a penny for Eximbank's capital increase. But not building a stadium in this country for a while, that's for sure. All I have to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, from the price of a stadium, we can provide shelter for 10,000 Hungarian families. Now, consider these and put them down, because this is a moment of truth, a moment of budget, a moment of truth. [[Dr. István Józsa: That's right!]] We have the green investment fund, we have the community economic development fund, we could provide hundreds of thousands of people with jobs where they live, we shouldn't go abroad, but we shouldn't even come to Budapest, where they live, where they like to be, where their families are, where they're used to, where they can do meaningful work for decent wages. Next to him is our employee poverty programme, which has been voted off, but what we do in the budget amendments is we smuggle it in in case something happens to you in the meantime and they say that we should not only deal with large companies, but also with the poorer Hungarian people who carry the country on their shoulders. Allow me to look at the budget in two respects, on the one hand, at family policy. There's a lot to hear about you guys saying you'd be a family-friendly government. Please prove this is your chance. The May Other Politics has submitted that family allowances and family tax benefits should be extended to include children up to the age of 24 if they are studying in higher education, because I would like to make it clear that it is not realistic today that 18-year-olds, when they finish their high school education and, let's say, start higher education, can immediately move away from home. No, a lot of young people stay at home, and these people need help, they need help to learn, and they need help to help their family to help their children. Raise the family allowance. We would also raise the child and the family allowance by 25 percent, and in addition, if someone is permanently ill or raised a disabled child, we would raise even more. Raise it, please, and, as I said, extend the family allowance and the family tax allowance, finally give the young people something. I think that this is a worthy goal where you should not watch the opposition say or say the party of government, but look at the goal and see these families. Then that's where family daycare is. We've been fighting for years to raise the norm and extend it to those family daycare centers that don't now benefit from normatives because they came about on their own. So, it's also a shame that we don't have enough crèches and the distribution is inadequate, and in many settlements, children can only go to institutions if family daycares are formed. These family daycare centers would create work locally, both for the one who operates it and for the parents who entrust their children to family day care professionals, and they could work until then. I ask you not to see the archenemy in the family daycare center, but to give them the support they need to make the Hungarian children better. I'm telling you, don't see the opposition representative, see the children who will have a place. The other is a question of free food. I have appreciated it, and here we have also talked with Secretary of State Czibere about the fact that progress has finally been made in this area, but there is no way to sit back here. Here are the long summer holidays, here are the weekends, and I'm asking you, and we put in the budget amendment, vote it, let it pass, let the children eat in winter and summer, on holidays, on weekends, on weekdays, always. The minimum is that a XXI. In Hungary, no child can starve. We want to contribute to this with our humble means, but we need you, my fellow members of the government, to achieve this. And I would like to mention one more aspect here. The budget, I believe, must also be looked at from a woman's perspective and from a gender perspective. Unfortunately, this budget does not contain any measures to promote equal opportunities for women. According to the LMP, it is a very unfair and I could say that it is outrageous that the pay gap between men and women is increasing in this country. I remember when Minister Varga came to his ministerial hearing, and I asked him what he wanted to do in his chair in order to reduce the pay gap between women and men, then your Minister, the responsible Minister of Hungary, said that this was a part of the market economy. Now, that's the attitude that should be forgotten, because that's exactly the approach that has led to the rise in the pay gap between women and men since you've been on the government. We say that money and opportunity should be given to the Equal Treatment Authority, and also wages should be raised, wages should be raised in the professions where women are over-represented, nursery workers, child protection workers, social workers, health workers, civil servants, educators. [[15.10]] They need sectoral wage programmes; wages need to be raised. The other is the balance between work and family, which I would like to draw your attention to. Look, in order for women in this country to be able to work even if they are having children and do not break their careers by having children, it is necessary to have high quality and accessible institutions that can receive our children in a dignified way. I think that we all, who work here in Parliament, have heard it, or even have our own experience that, while we are working, it is comforting to see that our children are well cared for, well developed, in the right place. I cannot ask you to listen to what daycare workers are asking for and finally to hear what Hungarian parents are asking, to have nursery places, to have family daycare places, and to give financial appreciation to all daycare workers. And I would like to mention one more point. I think it is finally off-limits to talk about the fact that there is and there is domestic violence in Hungary, and we must finally say that we can stop this horror only if you spend money on it and we have to ratify the Istanbul Convention. With regard to the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, you had a promise. You promised to ratify it during this session. Compared to this, in this budget you put on the table, I don't see a penny here. I consider 8 billion forints necessary, and our experts have calculated this. It takes 8 billion forints to fight domestic violence properly in Hungary. You give a lot of money here and there, I mentioned here, starting from the Paks expansion to the increase of Eximbank to motorways and stadiums there is a lot in this budget, which is either unnecessary or luxurious, but still: how do you think that what is happening in Hungary will happen, and if we do nothing, it will happen, and you do not want to stop domestic violence? 'Cause if they wanted to stop him, there'd be funding in this budget. Or have you forgotten that? Then I'd like to remind you. There is the amendment proposal, and we included it, we counted 8 billion forints. Let this proposal be approved, let it pass, and we can finally start ratification, so that we can finally launch a programme that will bring a completely different life situation for many people in this country. On the one hand, with regard to victims and, on the other hand, with a view to ensuring that prevention is done and effective, that is, people who become victims should not become victims. So we could prevent trouble if it happened, like helping the police and a lot of people to handle it properly. The ratification of the Istanbul Convention is an essential condition for Hungary's ability to fight effectively in relation to domestic violence. If the Hungarian Government thinks that at such a strange time, I would like to ask you to be reasonable enough that, after what is happening in this country - and there are terrible cases of domestic violence - you will not leave this alone and say that, yes, it is time for Hungary to ratify the Istanbul Convention. There's the LMP proposal, and I'm asking you to let this go, and I'm going to say it again, so don't look at it as being submitted by an opposition representative, forget, if any, that it is an opposition proposal. See those women and see the children involved in this issue, and when they look at this situation and look at these people, then listen to their hearts and let this proposal pass. I think that if it is a matter of parties, and if there is to be a political consensus in this country, it is precisely a matter of domestic violence. Not long ago, I was at a forum, talking to pro-government representatives about this situation, and they said it was only a matter of time. You can't say that! It's something that can't be delayed. I think that child hunger, violence against women and children - any action that can remedy such a life situation must be taken immediately. And this is your chance. It's May 2015, we're discussing the budget a little sooner than we expected. Use this unusual time to allow a few months ahead of the proposals to make progress in matters of at least such parties in the country. I'm asking for your support in this. Thank you.
u2015-05-29-80	State Secretary Péter Benő Banai indicated his intention to comment. You have the floor.
u2015-05-29-81	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Allow me to quote Mrs Bernadett Szél, who said about the government's economic policy since 2010: you see only the numbers. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Not even that. Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] He asked us to see people, and he asked for a full paradigm shift. Then he also said that we should listen to international organisations. Then let me pay tribute to the fact that, after 2010, the government has conducted an economic policy in which it has often not listened to international organisations. Why? Because, Madam Congresswoman, in addition to the statistics you mentioned, it is important to look at the situation that the government was in in 2010 when it chose its economic policy, which is now recognised by numbers. I do not want to go back to macroeconomic indicators, you know exactly how we stood in terms of growth potential, employment, public debt, government deficit, external balance sheet. In this situation, I have personally heard proposals from international organisations that were among the first steps to reduce public sector wages. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: I said the opposite!]] Congresswoman! I personally heard such a proposal from a known international organisation. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: That's not what we were talking about! The OECD report. Intercoms. The president's ringing the bell.]] Congresswoman! I ask you to look at what the European Union's countries have done in the crisis, in which Europe and the world have been in place, and indeed Hungary has been very seriously. I have said it myself yesterday, too, and I am obliged to say again that, after 2010, the majority of EU countries either reduced public sector wages or reduced their numbers, or together. Congresswoman, please take a look at this. In this environment, the government has actually chosen an economic policy that has been attacked by many people, families and jobs. In this context, the tax system has been transformed and wage increases have been made. The congresswoman said that there hasn't been a wage increase in the public sector in seven years. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: That's right!]] Once again, let me say in fact that there has been a wage increase in the health care area since 2012, in the 12th and 13th period, there has also been a very significant increase in wages for teachers, in the social field and in the law enforcement area. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett intervenes.]] This year, we are talking about a 30% wage increase for workers in armed bodies, an average 30 percent wage increase, and indeed next year's budget bill includes wage increases in several areas of the public sector. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Everyone in Szijjártó's State Secretary received a bloody raise!]] In addition, let us not go away from changes in the personal income tax system, including the introduction of a family discount. Here, I would like to stress that, if we look at the latest figures, there has been a real increase in wages due to low inflation and wage increases in all categories of earnings. To mention only the minimum wage, Congresswoman, these are the facts I'm saying. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Says the minimum.]] At the minimum wage, there was an increase of HUF 3500, and inflation was close to zero. So I have to report that the minimum wage workers, the lowest earners, experienced a substantial real wage increase in 2015. [[Intercoms from the benches of Jobbik and MSZP.]] With regard to the number of jobs, it is again possible to argue whether the government considers job creation important or not, whether or not it considers work to be valuable. But please, let's not argue with the statistics, the facts. Yes, you are right that not only has there been substantial job growth in the competitive sector, but the value of public work has also increased, and the number of people involved in public work has also increased. I think it is worth asking people who work in public work whether it is better to receive 20,000 forints as aid or to earn wages with value-creating work. You are right, Congresswoman, that the ideal condition would be to have the broadest possible levels of competition in the primary labour market. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Sweep the main square three times a day.]] But that is not the case in today's Europe and today's world. Congresswoman! I agree with you that this is a problem, but look at it - and again I quote statistics - that employment in Europe has declined in many countries in recent years. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: How many of the poorest regions are there in Hungary? Four!]] Unemployment in several European countries is above 20 percent. Compared to this, there has been a substantial increase in employment in the competition sector from the initial situation where we were, and indeed for those who cannot find a place in the competition sector, the public work programme offers a chance for a better life. [[15.20]] As regards active labour market policies: Madam Member, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a significant proportion of EU funds are spent by the government both for the period 2007-13 and for active labour market policy purposes for the period 2014-20. I can't even understand that. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: I'll help you.]] that the government does not have any job-creating measures outside the public works programme. I'm asking you to take a job security action on our [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Well, that's a good question. Intervention from the opposition benches: Spectacular bakery! Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] when employers receive a contribution allowance, if they take action to employ different groups, they hire people. Please, this is a success, again, please look at the numbers, or if the numbers are not accepted, talk to businesses that have been able to employ extra people thanks to the benefits of the job protection action. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: They were fired and then taken back! Mrs. Loránt Violinist intervenes.]] Ask people who have been able to work under this program and ask whether they are happy about this extra job opportunity or not. [[There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks.]] The congresswoman said that the goal was to make it better for Hungarian children, and no one should starve. Congresswoman, this cannot be argued, this is the government's goal. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Then they ask for money!]] That is why he has taken steps to increase the amount of food for children to multiple over the last five years. [[Miklós Soltész: That's right! Mrs. Loránt Violin: That is not true in this form!]] The figures have been repeated in this area, and I can only trust that the extension of the programme contained in the 2015 Budget Act will be accepted by you, so that more resources will be available for children's meals in 2016. Finally, just a few words about the equality between women and men. Forgive me, but once again I cannot understand the fact that the government is making wage increases in the public sector, or the state is putting women in a favourable position. Men and women receive the same wage, all wage increases apply in the same way [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Statistics, Mr. State Secretary! Dr. Wind Bernadett: I'll be right back to you.]] men and women who do the same work. As regards other programmes that put women in a position, I would like to remind you of the 40 programme of women, or I would like to remind you of the job protection action I have just mentioned, under which women returning to work after having children can be placed with a discount, with the benefit of the employer. I believe that the government has taken steps to increase the appreciation of women, and this - you are right, Madam Congresswoman - is also being protected by the 2016 Budget Bill. In this respect, I accept from the congresswoman that there is no paradigm change in the budget bill for next year, which is why it does not include a paradigm change, because these statistics have been successful either in terms of real wages or in terms of job creation, and the government intends to continue on this path. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-29-82	Ladies and gentlemen, Now it will be possible to reply to the Secretary of State in two minutes, but so that he can answer, so I announce that the KDNP faction has handed over 40 minutes of time to the Fidesz group. [[Moraj and intervention in opposition benches. Mrs. Loránt Violin: They want more! Dr. Répássy Róbert: Thank you very much. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Which Deputy Group Leader is here, who gave it to you? Intercoms from the opposition benches: Who gave it to you?!]] Then it is now possible to speak for two minutes. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs, from Jobbik.
u2015-05-29-83	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, You said that the Orbán government would never, under any circumstances, give in to external pressure and would not accept the dictatorships of foreign organizations. Since 2008 since the Gyurcsány government concluded its contract with the IMF, the civil servant's salary base has not increased by a penny, and it will now be the eighth year since it continues to be HUF 38 650. This means that in the last six to seven years, the real value of civil servants' salaries has been reduced by about 30 to 40 percent overall. So much for how you do not accept the dictatorships of foreign organisations, and after the Orbán government has even fought the war of freedom with the IMF, let us add. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary therefore proposes, in the context of the 2016 budget, to raise the civil servant's salary to a significant extent, to some HUF 45 thousand, and to tell you what would cover this, I will tell you: if only 10 percent of the government gifts given to Andy Vajna would be spent on this. [[László Teleki: That's right!]] It could be resolved by now, Mr. Secretary of State. Let me add one more thing. Minister Lázár announced with a great chandelier that they would launch the government civil servant programme, which means that the civil servants who had been taken over from the municipalities, who had become government officials, have significantly reduced their salaries - they have reduced their salaries once again: that is how much they do not accept the dictatorship of foreign organisations - this has now been reduced by 30-40-50 percent, and this will be increased from next July. So anyone who survives won't starve to death this year will deserve to be raised next year. Shame, Mr. Secretary. It's a shame, that's all we can say, and all in addition to you saying that you want to create a good state, let's just say, a paradise on earth. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-29-84	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Bernadett Wind.
u2015-05-29-85	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, You said you couldn't understand more - I'd like to help you with that. On the one hand, what he could not interpret, like Minister Mihály Varga, is, in fact, the concept of the pay gap between women and men. This is now 18.4 percent in Hungary, and this has increased under your governance - perhaps also because government members cannot interpret this phenomenon. This is about women and men making less money in certain professions, so she earns less for the same job as a man, so that's what it is, that's what it is. That's why we filed equal pay! For example, one of the measures that you voted against would be to have full transparency in terms of the comparability of wages, to obtain effective data, because this is a problem worldwide, and it is also a problem in Hungary that we do not know the exact data. The other is that there are certain professions in which many women work, and these are very underpaid professions. For example, health professionals, social workers, the social sphere, or daycare workers. That is why I urge this increase in wages, because they can help at the same time, so to speak, two things: one is that this pay gap would be particularly reduced, and otherwise the prestige of these professions would be expressed in financial form. These people, Mr. Secretary of State, that's why they protested on the street, so don't tell me that you can't interpret my statistics when people protested on the street. How do these two work out? And the other is that since 2010, whether you believe it or not, whatever statistics you're looking at, there have been 40,000 jobs in this country that are about to be announced, fixed-term, full-payment, so to speak, stable work that can be built on; now, compared to what you've shown here today at the level of macro data, I have said that this is the problem, and there can be no debate between us, that people who are starving do not appear. When you say that there are over 4 million people in employment, you do not add how much these people have made in this country. I wouldn't brag so much about the job protection plan. Still, look at why it was used by a lot less people. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] as much as you expected! I'm afraid I won't have more time to explain this to you. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and MSZP.]]
u2015-05-29-86	We will return to the normal speeches, and in this context I will give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, on behalf of Fidesz.
u2015-05-29-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, [[Dr. István Józsa: Free! You're free to say it. Dr. László Kács: Just without paper!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address two parts of the judicial chapter, the courts and the prosecutors. According to Article 25 (1) of the Fundamental Law of Hungary, justice is the fundamental task of the courts. At the end of 2014, the President of the National Court of Justice and the Curia reported to the Judicial Committee their activities in the previous year. According to the report, the National Court Office carried out its work in the previous year on the basis of the strategic objectives previously set, and has made significant progress in a number of areas. Their main results are: the number of cases pending over one year has decreased, thus the timeliness of the case has improved, and the Metropolitan Court can have particularly spectacular results as the number of cases over two years and over five years has decreased and the number of cases completed has exceeded the number of cases received. [[15.30]] The main task of the courts is the administration of justice within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. At the end of 2014, the President of the National Court of Justice and the Curia reported to the Judicial Committee their activities in the previous year. According to the report, the National Court Office carried out its work in the previous year on the basis of the strategic objectives previously set, and has made significant progress in a number of areas. Their main results are: the number of cases pending over one year has decreased, thus the timeliness of the case has improved, and the Metropolitan Court can have particularly spectacular results as the number of cases over two years and over five years has decreased and the number of cases completed has exceeded the number of cases received.(15.30) The National Court of Justice has successfully participated in several European Union applications, and in this connection the targeted organisation development programme of the courts has been launched, and the development of judicial IT systems has also been ongoing. The previously launched national programmes, which strengthen the customer-centred nature of the courts, are becoming increasingly popular among lawyers and counsellors involved in the administration of justice, as well as with law-seeking citizens. One of the main objectives of the National Court Office is to ensure that all the countries are covered by Article XXI. Customer-centred courts meeting the needs of the century. The budget bill submitted significantly increased the amount that could be used to invest in justice in the appropriations entered in the Court's chapter. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. A number of judicial investments have started and are ongoing in previous years. The internal renovation of the Metropolitan Court in several phases, the pace of the investment started in 2014 with the establishment of the customer centre, is the third stage planned for 2016, which is covered by an estimated HUF 150 million coverage in the bill. As I mentioned earlier, the National Court Office has successfully applied for EU funds, the purpose of which is to renew judicial processes, to bring institutional processes into line with the use of IT opportunities, to improve quality of service and efficiency, and to ensure the further training of judges and judicial staff. The chapter of the Finance Act on the Public Prosecutor's Office did not change compared to the 2015 budget, because last year, the budget allocation for the public prosecutor's investment increased by HUF 1.6 billion compared to the previous year. A number of recent amendments to the law have caused significant additional burdens to the prosecutor, such as the 2011 CLXXV on the right of association, public benefit status and the functioning and support of civil society organisations. In the light of the provisions of Law 21, the Public Prosecutor's Office shall carry out additional tasks in view of the failure to deposit the accounts of civil society organisations and their public utility annexes. The operational programme, which includes the justice chapters of the 2014-2020 period, is under preparation, is expected to be open at the end of 2015 and in the first half of 2016, to EU proposals, which could also benefit the prosecutor's organisation. The own resources necessary to participate in any project may be provided from the budget of the Public Prosecutor's Office. Overall, we can conclude that the courts and prosecutors form a separate chapter in the central budget of Hungary, which includes the appropriations necessary for the performance of their statutory duties. In view of this, I would ask my fellow Members to vote in favour of the adoption of the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-29-88	State Secretary Péter Benő Banai asked for the floor. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-05-29-89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will be very brief, but I think that I must respond to the suggestions made by Mrs Bernadett Wind. The three representative women mentioned in the three sectors, the social sphere, health care and daycare workers as sectors where many women work. I must say that it has either been achieved or that a gross wage increase will take place in all three areas in the future. The issue of the pay gap cannot be interpreted here, because in the public sector, both men and women earn the same wage. In parentheses, I would like to ask whether this pay gap in the competitive sector exists in other countries of Europe or in other countries of the world. And what can be done to reduce this? [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély constantly intervenes.]] Let me mention one more thing, which concerns not only the three sectors mentioned, but everyone. If the Honourable Parliament accepts the Government's proposal, I would remind it that the government's personal income tax rate will be reduced by 1 percentage point on the basis of the government's proposal, not only in the three sectors mentioned, but in all sectors, it will result in a net wage increase. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-29-90	I now give the floor to Congressman László Szakács, on behalf of the MSZP.
u2015-05-29-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Allow me to respond to your last remark, and I can imagine that there is a statistic that says that to you. But believe me, that's not the way people who are involved in this. Social workers are protesting in this town today. They will come from Andrássy Road through Bajcsy-Zsilinszky Road to the Constitutional Street. This protest starts at five o'clock. I would not suggest to the Secretary of State that you go out there and reassure them with these thoughts. After all, they're asking for social services to pay their wages to health workers. However, we are not really satisfied with the wages of healthcare workers; neither are you, as 15 billion forints have been set for the wage increase. But you've also invited yourself to raise wages in the health care sector. Minister Mihály Varga also said this in the conversational programme of one of the popular commercial channels: HUF 15 billion, that's all there is. By the way, there are 85 thousand people working in health care. Now, if we divide this well or do only that, and perhaps we can even agree in numbers that we will project this 15 billion HUF increase to the health sector, then this is a not exactly a 3 percent increase in wages for 2016. I didn't mean to start with that, but I thought I'd react to that. This procession starts at five o'clock, but I don't recommend Mr. Secretary of State to go out there and calm this crowd down, because I think it'll be a cover story tomorrow. Let me also respond a little bit to what Secretary of State Banai says, what the statistics show is that Hungary is a smiling, treasured-flowered country, a country where you really rarely see people who are almost burdened by the burden of the whole world to fight for their daily livelihood. But one more thing bothers me more, which is a professional problem. You, as well as the other authors [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély constantly intervenes.]] He talks about this year's numbers like they're fact numbers. This year, but not even from last year. This year's numbers are also spoken of as fact numbers. And if it isn't? My question is, based on a quarterly number of facts, how can they even say that it will be next year? I said this yesterday that there are a lot of things here that could affect the Hungarian budget, the situation of Greece, the situation of the German economy, the situation of inflation, or the situation of the euro exchange rate, which you are thinking of now is 303 forints. Please, if inflation or the forint/euro exchange rate is only 1-1 percent worse than you think on average in a year, the huge increase that you consider to be at least a European record at EU level will be lost. That's 0.6 percent compared to last quarter. I told you yesterday, but I'll tell you today, because it's important: it's not something to be proud of, it's something to be ashamed of. In the countries around us, in Slovakia it is 0.8, in Poland it is 1 percent, in Romania 1.6 and in the Czech Republic 2.8. The economies as huge as the Czech economy are doing so much better. [[15.40]] That is not what I wanted to talk about, but I had to mention this at the beginning of my speech and at the beginning of my speech. [[Dr. Répássy, Róbert: Was that just the beginning?]] You always say that we should support this budget and that there should be consensus in this and that we should find those points. I do not think that you will vote for one of our only amendments. Not a single one! You will not pass it in committee and we will hear a single sentence, as a justification, at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets: the government does not support it. Perhaps we can hear enough to vote on the unsupported line in one, because then we can save time. That's all we're gonna do. I once again submitted the amendment that I also submitted to the last year's budget amendment to give Baranya - which is now clearly coming out on the basis of statistical figures - one of the most backward regions in the European Union, not in Hungary, in the EU - HUF 1.5 billion for labour market development, improvements where they can create jobs. One and a half billion forints! This budget is in terms of buttons, pebbles category. I believe that if you can support this and support many other amendments, you can achieve the consensus you are asking for. But yet I think - to explain why it is so difficult for me to be a consensus between us - I would like to give you some data, and this is about the health sector and the operation of the EMMI, about the difference in world image between who supports what, who finances what. There is more than HUF 100 billion in the EMMI budget for sports support, and in the healthcare sector there is 15 billion forints for wage increases. We give 100 billion forints for sport, when the family-friendly government pays a little more, 120 billion in total a year. The advocacy organisations of people with disabilities receive HUF 83 million instead of HUF 149 million. Social organisations in health care receive HUF 51 million. The Red Cross receives 100 million forints, the Hungarian Red Cross manages from 100 million forints next year. Now, let's look at the sport: Fradi, Honvéd, BVSC, MTK, UTE and Vasas for the maintenance of their own facilities, HUF 3 billion 688 million, next to the 100 million of the Red Cross. The same associations receive 1.7 billion for operation, so we spend 5.4 billion forints on these football clubs, in addition to saying a similar number, this government is also spending 5.5 billion for the maintenance of health institutions. Where are the proportions? ! Where are the rates, Mr. Secretary? ! At a time when we spend 5.5 billion on maintaining health institutions only, 5.4 so that football teams can work better and, let's say, sports associations, academies, plus MLSZ's better operation, the Hungarian state spent 1.7 billion HUF last year, this year the Hungarian state will spend 7 billion HUF! This HUF 7 billion is almost half of what you intend to raise wages in health care. I believe that these are the differences in world vision that make this budget impossible to support. Secretary of State, if we reverse this ratio, if, say, the OMSZ, the National Rescue Service, if not more, but at least as much as the Hungarian Olympic Committee, but it gets 5 billion less because the Rescue Service is obliged or able to operate out of 32 billion, or forced to operate all year round, the Olympic Committee will operate from HUF 37 billion in the following year. I understand that sport is important, that we give heroes to all nations, but the only problem is that you give sinners because they do this to the detriment of something. You didn't hit your priorities, Mr. Secretary. That is why we cannot support this budget. In two more sentences, let me remember Minister Varga's fantastic statement, where he said that there is no need to spend more money on health next year, because there are fewer of us. [[Noise.]] That's what he said. Look back. There are fewer of us, there really are fewer of us, because we managed to create jobs only in London. Besides, the hospital directors are mismanaging. Minister of State, the government spends 4.4 percent of GDP on health care, and we Hungarians spend 2.9 percent of our own pockets. We are slowly reaching the amount invested in the budget, and when these figures were presented to Mihály Varga, he did not deny either of them. In contrast, in the last three or four years, you have purchased companies, companies that Hungarians do not need for nearly HUF 1000 billion. This is why we say it a thousand times: we do not have to buy the gas sector, we do not have to buy MOL, we do not have to buy the Antenna Hungária, we do not have to buy the Budapest Bank and Erste Bank last time, we do not have to acquire property in these. The Hungarian state must stand where no one else provides. This is health care, education, the social sphere. In these you are very behind, we must not build Hungary kft., we must not build a company portfolio, we must provide it where no one else provides. That is why we will not be able to support this budget, and you will support our amendments. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-05-29-92	I now give the floor to Attila Moring József from the KDNP Group.
u2015-05-29-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The government's three main objectives, namely strengthening families, job creation and economic growth, will be supported by next year's budget. Thanks to favourable real economic developments, we will have a cautious, moderate, conservative estimate of 2.5 percent economic growth by 2016, with a 2 percent deficit in disciplined fiscal policy and an increase in consumption with 1.6 percent inflation. The biggest winners of next year's budget will be families, as tax measures will leave a total of HUF 170 billion in Hungarian families. Of this, it amounts to HUF 120 billion that the personal income tax rate is reduced from 16 to 15 percent. In addition, the reduction of the VAT on pig meat amounts to HUF 25 billion, the increase in the tax relief of two children is HUF 1 billion, the reduction of the public service fee and the levy is HUF 10 billion. The family tax system, based on the appreciation of work and child rearing, will continue next year. One of Europe's lowest personal income tax rates and an increase in family tax relief also contribute to its effectiveness. From 2016 to four years, the family tax relief for families with two children will increase gradually from the current HUF 10 000 per month to HUF 12 500 next year and to HUF 20,000 in 2019. This represents progress in the lives of 1.4 million parents and children in 350,000 families. The ged extra will continue in 2016, as will the tax relief linked to the marriage. In addition, sufficient resources are available to increase families' home-building benefits. The government's decision to reduce the cost of living as of 1 January 2016, as I mentioned above, reduces the VAT rate for pig meat from the current 27 to 5 percent. After HUF 61 billion this year, we intend to spend more than HUF 71.7 billion on children's meals in 2016. Thanks to the extension of the free nursery and kindergarten meals, as early as autumn 2015, up to 230 thousand children can eat free of charge. From 2016 onwards, the textbooks will become free of charge in the entire lower school, and the textbooks will be provided in the upper grades, taking into account the need. Next year, pensions and individual income benefits will also preserve their real value, which will increase with inflation. In addition to a number of other measures for the elderly, the Women's 40 programme continues, which allows women with 40 years of work to retire. The burden on older people and families is also mitigated by the reduction of costs, the results of which the government intends to maintain and continue with a national utility service system. The National Defence Fund for the prevention of unforeseen risks contains HUF 100 billion, which is HUF 70 billion higher than this year. There is also a legal guarantee that this fund can only be used without compromising the deficit target. [[15.50]] The bill includes a further HUF 135 billion reserve, together with a chapter stability reserve and extraordinary government measures. The government has also set itself the goal of achieving full employment. The Cabinet expects an increase in the number of economically active people and workers in 2016, so that the unemployment rate can decrease to around 6 per cent. In the coming period, the structure of the Hungarian economy will also be increasingly balanced, while domestic demand will be further strengthened in addition to exports. Growth in household consumption could continue to accelerate both this year and next year. In addition to settling foreign currency loans, it is supported by rising real incomes, record employment and government measures to support families. After the strong growth last year, further expansion in investment is expected this year as well. In addition to the increased drawdown of EU funds, credit programmes to support small and medium-sized enterprises and a favourable return environment contribute to this. Instead of aid, according to the principle, the government wants everyone in Hungary to have a job and no one needs income support. The government, in cooperation with the competition sector, wants to achieve full employment, and therefore the employment incentive programmes will continue to be extended. The job protection action, which already helps to preserve the jobs of nearly 900 000 people, is also extended to those working in the agricultural sector. In 2016, the government will leave a total of HUF 131 billion for businesses employing disadvantaged workers, and the tax relief for part-time employment of parents with small children will continue to be enforced. Next year, public employment will be more accessible to 40,000 more people, so a total of 240,000 people will have the opportunity to participate in public employment programs, to which we intend to spend HUF 340 billion next year compared to HUF 270 billion. In the framework of the armed and police career model, from July this year, the salary of soldiers and law enforcement workers will increase by an average of 30 percent and then by 5-5 percent per year until 2019. In 2016, the budget will provide HUF 121.7 billion to cover a total increase of 35 percent. As set out in the career model, the wage increase of teachers continues, so the wages of employees in the sector increase every year until 2017. In the health sector, health professionals, doctors, in particular, are making progress in the area of mobile wages, while young specialists are making progress in improving the income situation. A HUF 15.3 billion source will be available for this. The introduction of a government civil servant career model will also start in July 2016, for which adequate collateral is available in the provision. In the next development cycle, Hungarian businesses will be able to apply more often. In Hungary, per capita support has never been as high as in the new EU financial cycle. In 2016, some HUF 1000 billion of EU funds could reach the beneficiaries, of which some HUF 500 billion could serve developments that directly support economic growth. This resource is complemented by the economic development programmes of counties and cities with county rights in the order of HUF 100 billion. Together with the last payments linked to the closure of these programmes, the total amount amounts to some HUF 1400 billion. In addition to the funds appearing in the central budget, nearly HUF 483 billion of agricultural subsidies will continue to arrive in Hungary. As regards municipal funding, it is important to know that next year the task-based support and distribution system should be maintained and further strengthened. Development support for non-debt-solidated settlements continues, with HUF 12.5 billion available for this purpose. In the following year, municipalities will be able to manage almost 2500 billion forints without a loan source, to which the central budget will provide more than 660 billion forints. The balance of the budget of the Pension Insurance Fund is also ensured in 2016, the revenue will cover fully the expenditure foreseen, and the government will also expect a balance between revenue and expenditure in the Health Insurance Fund. The amount that can be used for curative care will increase by HUF 33.7 billion compared to the previous year. In 2016, the health sector can count on an additional HUF 11 billion to expand the support system for specialist training, converting it, obtaining ambulances and operating the rescue management system, as well as other measures to improve the quality of life. Over the coming years, Hungary will receive more than €34 billion in funding, which, together with the necessary domestic co-financing, will bring about HUF 12 000 billion in development in the following year. The rate of per capita support has never been as high in Hungary as in the next cycle, with this indicator Hungary is second in Europe. The budget for next year leaves more money than working families. Next year's budget will support young married people who are about to start a family and will continue to give priority to families raising children. This budget will continue the practice of bringing people who want to work to work. Next year, there will be a reduction in the costs and tax incentives for children. We are reviewing the aid system, because the period of abuse of aid must end in Hungary. On the basis of the above, I would like to ask you to support the presentation of the 2016 budget. Mr. President, thank you for letting me know. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-29-94	I now give the floor to Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi from Jobbik.
u2015-05-29-95	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Although I was going to comment primarily on the External Action Chapter of the draft budget for 2016, I cannot help but make one or two general statements on the presentation and budget before us. The first question that may arise in the context of the budget debate in all of us is the timing of the budget submission. We do not understand, we do not know why the budget debate must take place here within the walls six months earlier than usual, six months earlier. What's the hurry? After all, from a professional point of view, it cannot be justified that this debate is taking place here in May, at the end of the first semester, instead of October-November-December. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] In order to achieve a normal budgetary debate and a normal budget, everyone who has mastered basic knowledge in the financial profession knows that it takes two feet. One is that the closure of the previous year, 2014 should take place, the accounting for the previous year should take place, and that, for this year, for the year 2015, the figures for the budget implementation are clear, which are currently unknown. So these two legs and these two conditions would have to be met in order to be able to negotiate the next annual budget in substance. Take the first one. The final accounts for 2014 for the 2014 budget are not yet complete, and the government's financial report is not submitted, which would include this, which, of course, is not audited by the State Audit Office. The government requests a financial mandate for 2015 without actually accounting for the financial year 2014. [[László Földi is replaced by Attila Móring József in the notary seat.]] This kind of procedure, which we know has become a common custom during the Orbán governments, is entirely contrary not only to international practice, but also to domestic traditions and established practices and traditions. The budget, as is known, is a financial plan based on base numbers, base data, and the base is basically the facts of the previous year, and the budget for the following year should be built. [[16.00]] This base is currently lacking, so we are facing a completely abnormal situation, and we are being forced into a situation in which there is no real debate. As regards the budgetary performance for 2015 and the performance figures, we do not see clearly at present either, as they are not known. It is not for nothing that this debate takes place in normal countries around October-November-December, because, towards the end of the year, the data of the first semester are already known as facts, so there are facts available, and perhaps even three quarters of years of data can be recorded and known as facts, and perhaps, for the whole year - the few months that are still to come - the exit of the budget can be predicted. Obviously, in mid-May, when this draft budget was placed on the House's table, even the first six months of data cannot be known, in this sense this draft budget cannot, in substance, be held in a normal debate. Of course, we know the position of the Orbán government on this, and they argue that, because of predictability and transparency, it is important that this budget is now decided early by this House and that it will continue this debate. Please, if you had spent a few years on the draft budget in the profession as well, if you had some practical insight into how a budget is being prepared, how it is appropriate to draw up a budget, then you would know that predictability doesn't fall from the sky to our heads, but it is based on trust, on trust that you don't necessarily have. Transparency in this particular case is a category of jokes, cynicism, impertinent cynicism, because this budget and what has become a practice in Hungary over the last few years and decades has become a practice, many things can be said, but the fact that it would be a transparent, transparent and consistent budget cannot be said with the greatest goodwill. After all, everyone who has seen a country's budget in his life, not that he has seen it, but, let's say, a company, a company, a simple kft., in order to be able to interpret numbers, has to have comparable figures for a given year in relation to the base and fact data of previous years, compared to the figures and figures of the current year. Three columns are generally known by one bookkeeping, in which different facts appear separately, making the figures meaningful and comparable. Minister Mihály Varga said at the time of the presentation of the budget that we are talking about a budget that is cost-effective. Compared to this, we see that wallets and ministries manage about the same amounts and money as in previous years, there is no transfer of any kind, which has only a message, that everything is working perfectly in this country, that every ministry is doing its work as efficiently and efficiently as possible, that no correction is needed in previous years' practices and budgets. And, of course, how could a kind of redeployment be carried out if the government, the government, still does not know the practice, which, by the way, is the basis of every budget from us to the West or even in other countries, is that there is a kind of analysis that measures the effectiveness of a ministry, how economical it is, how effective it is, how effective it is, how it manages the wealth that citizens, tax-paying citizens make available to the respected government and the state. With regard to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the management of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it is also very difficult to form an opinion in this regard, since the current Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which has been through three leadership exchanges in the last year and has taken a 180-degree turn, at least as far as foreign communication is concerned, still does not have an external strategy. There is no such document. We have seen some initiatives and certain to say that there are no drafts in this regard, but there is no foreign policy, despite the fact that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has continued its 25-year, one-sided Euroatlantic policy over the last 5-6 years, although rhetorically there has been a sort of shift, a 180-degree turn - only as far as communication and rhetoric are concerned - in which the Eastern opening and the southern opening policy has appeared, even if they have not yet been able to produce any results. At present, we cannot see what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs's strategy is, on the basis of which it asks the honourable voters and Parliament to authorise it to spend the allocated budget. In this sense, we cannot, in the absence of a strategy, interpret the multibillion forints capital increase and various subsidies granted to Eximbank; despite the fact that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is carrying out a kind of calamari mission, where GDP data, import-export numbers and all kinds of economic growth indicators are spewed around the world, in this sense it has strayed from the career of classical diplomacy in a sense, this has been completely blocked, despite the fact that the world is undergoing huge changes that are coming to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as a surprise. To highlight only a few crises of the last year, on which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been very keenly following the events: the Ukrainian crisis and its branching of all types, the changes in energy, the collapse of the South Stream project, the Hungarian Ministry of Foreign Affairs has no alternative and a strategy to ensure the energy supply of Hungary, at least as far as gas is concerned. There is also no foreign policy strategy for a western sanctions policy with Russia. In the same way, the Hungarian government responds to U.S. calls to the rise of the Islamic State, in a way that is organically sound, to an adventure that has absolutely no prospects. The disbarment scandal about the US is also a topic that caught Hungarian diplomacy and Hungarian foreign policy as a complete surprise, and of course it was not a surprise, because the Hungarian Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not even know the idea of analysing events in the world, it follows events in a completely ad hoc, spontaneous manner, there is no effective intelligence, there is no proper diplomatic direction and leadership, even the concept of controlled chaos cannot be used for the operation of the current Ministry of Foreign Affairs. At present, Hungarian diplomacy has no allies, the West considers Hungarian diplomacy to be a traitor, which, at rhetorical level, opposed our former Western allies, and in the East, receives a kind of mistrust of the Orbán government's egg dance on various matters, which it describes. In this sense and to sum it up: In the absence of an external strategy, government, diplomatic and foreign policy efforts led by expectations in Brussels and Washington cannot be supported and the relevant budget chapter cannot be supported, since, as long as the country does not have a sovereign national strategy, foreign affairs strategy, it is completely unnecessary to talk about the institutions, institutions, the diplomatic faculty of which the government distributes the money for the Foreign Affairs chapter. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[16.10]]
u2015-05-29-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members and immediately announce that, according to our agreed agenda, it was possible to submit amendments by 16:00 and now it is 16:00 and 10 minutes. Thank you very much. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. First, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian from the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2015-05-29-97	Mr President, Dear House, All due respect to the Minister of State of Banai who has so far been the only person who has been involved in the budget debate. That is what I continue to encourage, since I have to argue with him in a number of matters. Before you talk about improving the situation of minimum wage earners and others, I would like to point out to you the OECD study on average wage pressures that shows that Hungary is the fourth most charged average of OECD countries, and we see that, while this average is 36 percent, you are taking about 48% of the average wage of Hungarian people. You should tell me what they're used for or what kind of facilitations are made of them. Let's take a look at these. You claim that this is a budget for tax cuts, so let us look at it. If we add up the prices and consumer-type taxes, including expectations from a number of inevitable tax types, such as transaction fees, we see that they increase by HUF 215 billion compared to the previous period, so they do not stand the test of truth when you talk about tax reductions. But if you say that we are not just looking at the VAT, not just the type of consumption, we are looking at the expectations of personal income tax, where you have made a cosmetic, although supported by me, discount, how is it that the total income from personal income tax has been 1640 billion, and now, after your easing, 1658 billion, so a higher amount is among the expectations? At the same time, I would like to stress that the situation here in the OECD study shows that Hungary is the fourth most brutally charged in terms of the taxation of average wages, is the statistics that have been developed taking into account your 1 percent discount. So, after all your cosmetic facilitations, we have achieved the terrifying situation that a Hungarian average person still has to face such brutal withdrawals from his average Hungarian salary, while in Western Europe and the region it is not typical to take so much of the people's money so cruelly. Well, they'd cry out for answers. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-29-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. We'll continue with the proper debate. From the Fidesz Group, Mr Demeter Zoltán will take the floor. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-05-29-99	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, I would like to comment on two issues in the budgetary debate. Firstly, as in previous years, I consider it important, in the debate on the 2016 budget, to have a constructive debate and exchange of views on the government's policy of catching up to the future. It is important to highlight the progress that has been made in this area, the future plans and goals, as well as the message for disadvantaged sections of society, especially for young people, that there is hope, opportunity, a solution to their situation, and that the Christian civilian government will not let go of their hands. There are a number of goals to be achieved that, thanks to the government's aspirations and the parliamentary vote in favour, may give rise to confidence in the future. Here we can mention the conversion of vocational training, which will make the second vocational qualification free, from 21 to 25 years of participation in day school education, thus enabling anyone to acquire their first vocational qualification in daytime training, thus allowing for, for example, wider travel and student work allowances, scholarships or even easier placement in dorms. Furthermore, one of the most important changes should not be overlooked - and this has already been mentioned several times today - that the range of people entitled to a free nursery and kindergarten meal is significantly, in a large proportion, thus helping the healthy development of children of the smallest age. I would like to mention here that it is a mandatory municipal task to feed children, and that in settlements in my constituency, in kindergartens, schools or crèches, this law is fully respected by the mayors, and the children's meals are fully functioning. Dear fellow Members, I would then like to mention a number of programmes that have shown encouraging results this year, and we hope that in 2016 it will be no different. As a program to prevent drop-out and create opportunities, we can mention the Arany János talent program, the Arany János dormitory program and the Arany János dormitory-student program, whose target group includes the most vulnerable, the most vulnerable student groups at risk of drop-out, and nearly 4,500 students every year. The programmes will help students to make successful progress in school with complex pedagogical, social, cultural and health support. It is also important to highlight that social inclusion programmes, such as social, economic and territorial disadvantage settlement programmes, vocational schools, multifunctional, ethnic, Roma methodological, educational and cultural centres, can receive more resources in the coming year. As a sensation, while this year there were 523 million forints, next year there will be 603 million forints. But for example, we can also mention the Travelling Scholarship Programme, which provides for the possibility of a significant part of the program participants to go to high school for three academic years for the future, from 2015 to 2018. Based on the draft, nearly HUF 389 million more scholarship from Hungarian sources than in 2015. Finally, I would like to mention the Türr István Training and Research Institute, of which the number of 390 will now be increased to more than 470 from 2016 onwards, with a budget support of HUF 400 million. Ladies and gentlemen, A number of other programmes could be listed aimed at catching up and creating opportunities for disadvantaged children, young people, to break out of a difficult life situation in which they were almost without their own faults and to create opportunities with diligence and dedication to the country's growth and the achievement of future ambitious goals. I believe that, thanks only to the few elements I have just mentioned, we can look more positively at the resources of the 2016 budget for social inclusion of young people. Secondly, I would also like to speak as a member of the Judicial Committee, which is responsible for civil society, ethnicities and ecclesiastical affairs. [[16.20]] Therefore, as a reformed minister, I feel it is also my duty to address the issues relating to these issues here, in relation to the 2016 budget. Ladies and gentlemen, I strongly believe that the development of our country, the continuous growth of the Hungarian nation in the motherland and across borders, can only be unbroken if our Hungarian and state-making nationalities are strong and united in their identity, national identity and faith. The special objective of next year is therefore to strengthen the church's social role, to significantly increase the support of civil society organisations that build and serve communities, and to continuously assist national minorities that preserve their mother tongue and culture. In recent years, churches have played a very important role in education, education, the care of people with disabilities and the elderly, as well as in homelessness. And I think that the confidence in the churches and the increased social solidarity resulting from their work justify receiving support for their work. Because of their role and culture in Hungarian history, our country is stronger and more colourful. I believe that, therefore, the government will continue to assist in the care of their mother tongue, the preservation of their culture, the development of their faith and their mother tongue education, and the building of their communities. Our national governments are not only rooted in the Hungarian past, but also bridges to the peoples of the surrounding countries. Their support and political representation are also examples of countries in which indigenous Hungarian communities live. The construction of communities, their professional service, the preservation of national identity, the strengthening of solidarity and tolerance, as well as social and charitable tasks are social value creation, which is done more widely by civil society organisations with the involvement of tens of thousands of volunteers. The government's aim is to give this value-creating voluntary work priority support in the future. I believe that what has been said has been constantly taken into account by the government from 2010 onwards and validated every year in the planning of the budget. Therefore, I would like to highlight only a few things that are specific to 2016. The budget specifically mentions support for some large church investments. As has been said, Minister of State has also mentioned the development of the Evangelical Church of Győr insula Lutherana, but also the infrastructure development of the Reformed Education and Education Institutional System in Debrecen. I would also like to point out once again that from 2016 the income supplement for church persons serving in settlements of less than 5 000 inhabitants will increase by 34 percent, which means that this income supplement will increase from HUF 30 000 to HUF 40,000, while the income supplement for ecclesiastical persons serving abroad will increase by 100 percent. This is particularly important because the income substitute contributes to the preservation of small settlements, to the reduction of the assimilation of Hungarians across the border and to the preservation of Hungarians living in sporadics. Finally, allow my fellow Members to highlight the 500th anniversary of the Reformation. The government will provide HUF 550 million in 2016 to support the Reformation Memorial Committee's programmes. The activities and programmes related to the Reformation Memorial Year began, of course, as early as this year, 2015. The tasks planned for 2016 are, in fact, the continuation of the tasks initiated in 2015, including the dissemination of educational school programmes and exhibitions showing Protestantism in Hungary and showing the impact of the Reformation and its effects, the publication of thematic proposals, the launch or continuation of priority investments, the compilation of the Protestant scientific repository in the Carpathian Basin. It is also important to encourage rural programmes, and it is also important to focus on the 2017 jubilee, so that Hungarians across the border can continue to participate in commemoration of the Reformation, both from a scientific, artistic and a religious point of view. I believe that the budget before us is in the spirit of what has been said, and that is why I will ask my fellow Members for their support on the budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-29-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Péter Banai Benő asked for the floor.
u2015-05-29-101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Several Members criticised the process in which the government presented the draft budget bill to Parliament in spring, so allow me to give some thought to this. It is true that the proposal was submitted earlier. The arguments were also mentioned by opposition representatives, and I must highlight first of all predictability and earlier knowledge of the economic environment. However, I must say that this previous budget does not mean that the base on which we are building is not known. It has often been said that the 2014 closing date is not yet before the National Assembly, but this does not mean that we do not know the 2014 facts. The Hungarian government debt, the Hungarian government deficit, is also included on Eurostat's website, and it has often been said in this House how much economic growth was, so the figures for 2014 are known and public. We also know the processes of the first months from 2015; this was the base for which the budget was prepared. I have to say that, as a Member State of the European Union, Hungary, as well as all EU countries, in spring, must submit a so-called convergence programme or a stability programme to the European Commission, so that each Member State must prepare an economic programme for the years ahead. This is what the Hungarian Government did, and on the basis of this convergence programme it defined the 2016 budget figures. As far as the process is concerned, not everything can be accurately predicted: a possible change in the exchange rate of the forint has been said, inflation changes. They cannot be argued with, but every budget approved includes the possibility that processes can vary. The fact that the bill was submitted to the Parliament this spring does not mean that unforeseen processes are not protected. For this reason, the bill submitted contains a higher reserve amount compared to the previous one, so for unexpected processes, I think there will be sufficient funding in the 2016 budget. As regards Mr Márton Gyöngyösi's comment on the lack of an external strategy, I must say that I believe that the change in the name of the Ministry in itself also shows the strategy that the Government has adopted: the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade is called the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. [[16.30]] There is not only a strategy, but also concrete steps to open the East, open the South and strengthen economic relations. I am referring to the opening of trading houses, the opening of new foreign representations or the extended activities of Eximbank, also mentioned by the Member. I think we also needed these to report on the positive economic growth data for 2014. And finally, in the external strategy, I have to say that, of course, it is not only about strengthening economic relations, but also about maintaining traditional diplomatic relations that remain a priority for the government. With regard to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpat's ideas, I must say that statistics, numbers, cannot be debated. Mr President, you are right that there is still a high international comparison between the so-called tax wedge, i.e. the tax on labour and the net income received. But let's also look at the direction we're going and where we're moving from. Let us also look at the fact that in 2010 this tax wedge was substantially higher, since there was a different personal income tax system, there was no family discount system that leaves 260 billion forints for families next year, and there was no job protection action. So I think it is worth looking at the process, and I have to say again that the government has gone in a direction that is about reducing taxes on work, about making more money for people, about the benefits of economic policy for people and for families. And here I have to ask the socialist representatives, so that when they say that the government moves differently, whether before 2010, when the 13th month wage was taken away in the public sector, people were asked. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] So when such criticisms are being formulated, honourable Member, Members, we should also look at the measures that have been taken during your governance. I see exactly the opposite steps, and before 2010, there were factually opposite processes to wage measures. And in that, I repeat, I must agree with Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát that the reduction of taxes on work must be a goal. What I can tell you is that next year's budget bill contains steps in this direction, both by reducing the budget by 1 percentage point and by including the annual impact of the extension of the agricultural employment protection action in force as of 1 July. And I hope that, if favourable macroeconomic developments persist, if economic policy can continue in the coming years, further tax reductions will be possible after 2016, in line with the burden-bearing capacity of the economy, taking into account the principles of disciplined public finance management. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-29-102	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Anita Heringes, from the MSZP Group, will be followed by a proper speech. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-05-29-103	Thank you very much. It is good to see the honourable Members and honourable Members' speeches, as Mr Demeter Zoltán Fideszes has said over the past period, and I hope that there will be no problem that we can see from the opposition's side that you have been looking for the positives in this budget and that you have tried to find numbers and figures that will help people. It must have been hard, but it was a really decent speech. And it is far better to see such a speech than to see those who, in despair, point backwards after more than half a decade of government. Because a lot of people are doing that they're pointing backwards after five years, after five years of government, during which you were no longer pushed by the global economic crisis, and you should only have improved the country, and not only the pockets of your buddies, but also the pockets of your entire country, your little people. Minister of State Zsolt Szabó told us yesterday that the numbers we see in the budget are stable and that we need to look at the numbers. The difference between government representatives and opposition representatives seems to be that you're looking at the numbers, and we're looking at the people behind it. Because we meet the people behind the numbers. And that is the big difference, and we feel more and more that way as opposition representatives against the pro-government people, especially those of us who have debated here for the last three days, sat down and listened to most of the speeches, and we are not spending a day or just hours in Parliament. Every year, we listen to loud, lousy sentences from you about the type of budget you've just submitted. We have just heard that this year of tax cuts, in any of the last five years, has failed to comply with this lousy communication sentence. We are very, very far from him now, because this tax reduction, for example, is a reduction from 16 to 15 per cent, please, gentlemen, it looks like it will be about HUF 1000 to 1500 per month for an average person. Yesterday we heard from Secretary of State of Czomba that when I suggested how my age would be able to have children today, that he dared to start a child, because most young people today actually earn 70-80-90 thousand forints, Minister of State Sándor Czomba said that three of these 73,000 forints could be raised. That's when you're shocked that you really, what kind of world a fellow Member lives in, that he really just gets in his car from his apartment. And he comes into Parliament and he doesn't meet anyone. (László Tasó: Oh, my God!) We sat in deep shock and could no longer respond. The big difference is that as long as we think that the low earners should leave more money in their pockets, because then he will spend it on food and services, which will actually start the economy, the better earners of these wages, which will remain in their pockets, will spend it abroad, because he will no longer spend this money on extra food, buying meat, buying domestic vegetables, but will then go abroad to rest or buy foreign things. That's why they should finally accept that the money should be left in the pockets of the people who spend it at home and that they can finally buy another shoe for the child, or that the ladies could go to a hairdresser. And just think that they are one of the dreams of an average woman today, because the daily bills are so hard on them that they don't even dare to think about when they can do something that would really contribute to their good cheer. So what you're saying is that it's going to be better for people, they're somehow not feeling it, they're not feeling it any better. And the Fidesz propaganda that we've been listening to from you lately is really shocking. What I wanted to say in any case, as you pass on public service tasks to disaster management, is now slowly at every point. Only in 2016 will the government give HUF 0.9 billion more money to the Directorate-General for Disaster Protection. They received the waste management tasks: in the event that so far non-profit municipal companies can no longer carry out waste management, disaster management will then designate a waste management company, which, as we know, in most cases is the same company, and if it can't do it, then disaster protection will take over. Same thing with the chimney sweep. The only shocking thing is that if the disaster management budget increases by HUF 0.9 billion and he gets all the tasks slowly, we do not understand what the president of the Association of Chimney Sweepers said that it has cost HUF 6.5 billion a year. If it's $6.5 billion a year, how does a 0.9 raise just fit into a chimney sweep if you're just looking at the numbers? And then you'll be next to waste management. I really don't understand, then look at the numbers, only then the numbers will reflect the reality! We are absolutely appalled at the way we are listening to yelling from Members and from the State Secretarys to point back at us, but you should not point backwards, you should do it for the people. After five years, we would have expected a budget from you that would at last benefit not only your own friends, not just your own companies and not just the people who represent the top ten thousand, but also those who support this country and work to make it work at all. It's the civil servants whose wages you haven't raised in the last five years. They should be given a basis of respect, because they are slowly among the people who have to look at the daily cheques, when the final deadline is until the deposit. These are the people who run the state behind you; these are the people who work for you, by the way. Then perhaps they should be valued and raised a salary basis. They had five years, they didn't. I think that's the least they could do, if they're supposed to do the job, they should do the job for them. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-29-104	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mr Mihály Witzmann. Here you go, Congressman. [[16.40]]
u2015-05-29-105	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The global economic crisis that unfolded in 2008 clearly highlighted Hungary's vulnerability and, in particular, the Hungarian economy's vulnerability. In 2002, our country was considered the leader of the region, but after the socialists' governance, we had to face the fact that the country's economy was on the verge of bankruptcy. [[Anita Beringes: You've been steering for five years!]] I see you smiling in the socialist faction, but let us not turn away from historical realities. By 2010, Hungary became the victim of increasing public debt and was vulnerable to international financial processes; while Hungarian families were thrown into a foreign currency trap by the then irresponsible government and left quite simply to themselves without any help. And to respond a little bit to what Congresswoman Anita Heringes has done in front of me, to what she has done, to what she has done, to what she has said, to what is disturbing the past, my dear fellow socialists, and to what I believe is such a bad quality of life that, unfortunately, historical, political and economic events can only be evaluated and examined in their process, and that you cannot take a slice out. [[Anita Beringes: You do this all the time.]] We're not talking about episodes, we're talking about a whole process. And if we look at the process, my fellow Members, then in 2002 we saw that Hungary enjoyed recognition not only of the neighbouring countries, but also of Europe's economic rating agencies and economic opinion-forming forces, and in 2002 we really felt that something was moving forward in this country. On the other hand, after eight years of socialist governance, we did not see any evidence of this. We didn't see any sign of him when there were constant cuts, no sign of him when there were constant increases in wages, no sign of him when the 13th month pension was taken away, and we could list him; the cuts in public sector wages, one month's public sector wages, were taken from public sector workers. I think that by 2015 we have succeeded once again in talking about the fact that family support has widened again, the Hungarian economy is booming again, supporting the SME sector and employment, I think, has also made very positive progress over recent years. In terms of public debt, we are on a declining path as a percentage of GDP. I believe that these results are, in any case, meaningful, and in any case require at least the minimum respect that the socialists are not disturbed by their own past, but that they should at least acknowledge that they have made a mistake and that they should be constructive in order to continue working in the interests of the Hungarian people. And we also remember well that in 2010, our country was mentioned on another page with Greece, while we are talking about the past, because of high levels of indebtedness, low employment and economic decline, it was considered to be the most vulnerable country to the State Bank. And while Greece has continued to take on new and new loans and there are no signs of recovery, Hungary has been on the road to economic stabilisation and recovery since 2010. As a practical example, while the return on the three-year Greek government bond is currently around 20 percent, the similar Hungarian sovereign debt is around 2.1 percent. In fact, according to the ideas so far, Hungary does not intend to issue foreign exchange bonds on international markets this year. This was also the case in Hungary a very, very long time ago. In 2010, the Hungarian people gave a convincing majority the authority to establish a new civilian government, a new government that had broken off with the failing economic policy. New governance chose tax cuts rather than austerity and introduced new taxpayers into public burdens, which was almost unimaginable in the past. The ever-increasing budget deficits and the ever-increasing public debt have been replaced by a predictable, disciplined fiscal policy that has put the country on a sustainable growth path and we have finally been out of the excessive deficit procedure since 2004. Indeed, the 2016 budget opens up a new era and new opportunities for the country, as it is about tax cuts, wage increases and development. The reduction of personal income tax to 15%, the reduction of VAT on pigmeat from 27% to 5 percent, the increase in family tax relief for two children, the significant expansion of the children's feeding programme, the possibility of drawing on a record amount of EU development resources, public sector wage raising programmes, subsidies to general practitioners, as well as the reduction of public administrative costs through the elimination of a number of taxes and levies, are also expected to significantly help the economy to recover further, reduce the burden on families and thus increase the country. Five years after the civilian government took office, it is safe to say that the crisis management period is over, stabilisation has taken place, and growth has started. Economic growth is important in many ways, as a 3-percent economic growth in the country represents a budget surplus of around HUF 400-500 billion, and on the other hand, the higher the GDP increase, the faster we can overcome debt, i.e. lower our debt ratio. The stabilisation of the economy is no better demonstrated than the fact that the interest payments on the central budget are appearing as an ever smaller item of expenditure. Our public debt-to-GDP ratio is on a downward trend and the State is paying increasingly low interest rates to its customers. The interest payment of the budget decreased by nearly HUF 200 billion from 2012 to 2016, which could amount to an additional HUF 60 billion less interest expenditure from 2015 to 2016. It is also important to emphasise the fact that public participation in the financing of public debt is on an ever-increasing trend. In order to facilitate and facilitate access to sovereign debt, the Hungarian Treasury has opened a number of sales points in recent years, thereby significantly reducing the intermediary role of banks. Thus, people can buy government bonds directly from the State, and typically use the interest received domestically, budget interest expenditure does not flow out of the country anymore. The high reinvestment rate makes funding more predictable and predictable, which also strengthens the country's economic stability. Next year's budget accounts for a 2.5 percent economic growth, a 2 percent deficit in public finances and a 73.3 percent government debt-to-GDP ratio, so the planned reduction in public debt will also meet our obligations under the basic law. Hungary has come a long way over the last five years, the economy is stable, growth is sustainable, foreign debts have been drastically reduced, i.e. we have become more and more reliable debtors for the outside world. Therefore, it would be justified and we feel it is justified that, following the economic policy of the last five years, credit rating agencies classify Hungary as the category recommended for investment. Hopefully, this will take place by the end of the year, which could lead to a further reduction in sovereign debt market yields, as well as an improvement in borrowing conditions for businesses. As the Budget Council has also stated, next year's budget bill is well-founded and does not contain significant risks. In the event of unexpected economic developments, the HUF 100 billion framework of the National Defence Fund represents a sufficient guarantee reserve. This amount is about HUF 40 billion more than this year's agreed value. I believe that, as in the last five years, the government has already submitted a responsible draft budget, and the 2016 budget is expecting significant tax cuts and wage increases. It does so by keeping the budget deficit at a low level, by continuing to reduce public debt and economic growth, it intends to ensure the conditions for a successful management for the following year. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you with respect that, following a constructive debate, your votes support the adoption of next year's budget. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-29-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. A proper speech from the Jobbik Group will be followed by Mr Csaba Gyüre. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-05-29-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to continue somewhere where my colleague Gábor Staudt left off, and Mr Répássy, State Secretary, responded, and there was also a small debate about the funding of the courts and prosecutors. I'd like to do this from somewhere else. Mr Secretary of State said that, compared to 2009, the funding of the courts increased by around one third in the 2016 budget, to about the same extent as the expenditure in rem and the prosecutions. From 64 billion to 90 billion in figures, now 87 billion in 2016 for the court, from 46 billion to 53 billion in real expenditure and from 10 billion to 15 billion in 2016 and to the same extent from 28 billion to 39 billion in 2016 at the prosecutor's office. [[16.50]] The Secretary of State also mentioned that this increase was mainly due to the increase in the number of case files, the burden of judges, the change in the number of persons, but, continuing, as Gábor Staudt indicated, it would not only be necessary in this respect to increase personal expenses, but also to take wage, nominally, into account the increase in wages. In this connection, we have tabled budgetary amendments, which apply both to the budget of the courts and to the budget of the Curia and to the public prosecutors' offices, where this represents a growth in the chapter mainly in personal expenditure. Not that this is not necessary for the expenditure in rem, since the Secretary of State said that he has grown from 10 billion to 15 billion in six years, and I do not dispute that this has increased, but, moreover, there are still such problems in the courts - even from my experience as a lawyer - that it is not possible to put toilet paper in the toilet in a courtroom, so I think it is quite strange and precisely in a place like this. Returning to personal expenditure: Gábor Staudt, my fellow Member, said that a European Council survey was carried out on this issue, which looked at wages in Europe until 2014, which took Hungary to the last place in the European Union, both with regard to judges' and prosecutors' actions. I think it is very important that, in the case of judges, we are talking about an independent branch of power, which is also a depositary of democracy, the separation of powers and judicial independence, and they cannot be separated from the remuneration of judges or from the remuneration of prosecutors, which they have. Last time in this respect, wage development in this respect was in 2002, following the establishment of the Medgyessy government, when the government planned a 50 percent wage development in three steps, which was carried out over two years, since then there has been virtually no wage development in this area. At the last hearing, President Tünde Handó said in this respect that the judges had lost their salary in real terms by 43 percent since the last salary increase. 43 percent, that's an amazing number! When we are always discussing wages, the minimum wage, and the government is always saying that, in real terms, we are counting wage developments, in what way, if we look at it, a 43 percent real wage decline in the judicial sector is a shocking number, because, in practice, we have not been determined to develop wages since 2002, and this is how we have come to the conclusion that, according to the European Council's calculations, Hungary is currently the last place in the prosecution and the courts, there are 10 percent higher wages in the last country, Bulgaria, and if we look at it, the neighbouring Romania, for which we always say that we are in GDP growth, economic development and the rest, we are 60 percent higher wages. And then we are not talking about Austria, where we are talking about triple wages, not England, where we are talking about eight-fold wages, or Germany, where we are talking about six-fold wages, but we are talking about Poland, we are talking about Romania, Slovakia, Bulgaria, and in all of them they go far, in some cases they multiple times over Hungarian salaries. We have also calculated, and I have just said at the hearing to President Tünde Hando, and I have calculated that if the salaries of judges and prosecutors in Hungary were to increase by 30 percent - and in this case I have proposed such wage development with my fellow Member Staudt - then Hungary would enter the top-of-the-line on this list, so it would not be very high, then we would be ahead of Bulgaria in this ranking of payments, and with a Baltic State, Lithuania, we would be on the top-of-the-line pay list in the European Union. So, at this moment, we are about this much behind, and when we talk about wage developments in all sectors, I think we should also do so. I do not want to see the trend that can be noticed, by the way, that neither in the period 1998-2002, during the first Orbán government, nor in the formation of the second government, nor since then in the judicial sector there has been any wage development. I do not want to conclude that there may be a problem with this individual branch, this independent branch of power, I hope that I do not have to think about it, and that is not why they are deliberately permanently abandoned when it comes to improving their wages. But what problems are there other than nominally the least sought by judges or prosecutors in Hungary within the European Union? In particular, the following problems arise in courts: the law on the status of judges gives judges in several places more opportunities for extreme pre-randomisation and sets different wage supplements. For example, the extraordinary pre-arrangement, which is the Law 171. Article 174 of the Act provides a titled court or court title which can be donated for good work. Article 179 of the Treaty or Article 179 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union or Article 179 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union In the case of a second, third and fourth degree, which is otherwise applied to the court in the course of their judgment, the foreign language allowance, or the supplementary allowance and qualification supplement, provided that they have obtained a second, third and fourth degree. The problem is that they are very nicely included in the legislation, only the budget does not give them the opportunity to actually use them, and they can give judges foreign language replacements so that judges can be granted under the law according to their second and third degrees... - I stress that they are not compulsory allowances, they are some kind of bonus, but they can be given in such a way that they cannot be given, because there is no budgetary cover, so in vain an economic judge uses economic education related to the economy, which is still used in addition to legal qualifications, because they do not receive the coverage in this respect, and these allowances are virtually non-existent and cannot be granted, because they do not have the coverage. The cafeteria system in these places is the same metaphor. A little bit about why it is not possible to mention the court and the prosecutor's office at exactly the same level: because if we measure the court's personal expenses and the costs in rem in the court and prosecutor's section, we will not get the same. That is why we have made a very small difference in the chapters with the increase, as we have proposed 30 percent more than personal expenses for judges, 25 percent for the prosecutor's office, as we still have 30 percent wage development in the prosecutor's office. Why do we need more money in court? It is necessary because in the court this chapter is also charged with other expenses, not just the wages of those working there. What are these expenditures that can be classified here? The payment of expert fees will appear in court negotiations, the public defender fees, the sitting fee, the patronage fee, the guardianship fee, the interpreter fee, the translation fee. They may appear as well as appear in the prosecution procedure, but to a much lesser extent, and this will make a much smaller amount of money. This is why the prosecutor may have the reserves from which the non-existent 13th month's salary, which was taken from both the prosecutor's office and the court at the time, can be given as personal benefits, clothing money or other cafeteria, as 13th, 14th month's salary, while in the court where this personal framework is fully stretched, there is no possibility of doing so. That is why it would be necessary for both the prosecutor's office, the court and the Curia to provide these chapters to this extent, as we have calculated, and it is a very small percentage... - it should be granted. In this, I would ask for the support of the government and the Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-29-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches if someone wishes to participate. I don't see any contact... [[For signal:]] Yes, Mr. Répássy Róbert, Secretary of State. It's not two minutes, the representative of the government can speak at any time according to the house rules, unlimited to the end of the time frame. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-05-29-109	Thank you for the floor. I do not wish to take more than two minutes of the group's time and your patience. Honourable Congressman, There is no debate between us that the administration of justice could receive even more support from Parliament in the Finance Act, and I have only drawn attention - and I hold this position - to the fact that the budget for justice has increased significantly over the last five years, and it is true that with this, of course, its tasks and the number assigned to the task have also increased, so its staff has also increased. [[17.00]] Nevertheless, I believe that progress has been made in the area of justice. As I said in my previous speech, there is now money for investment, obviously the court organisation sets an appropriate priority as to the investments to be made. In this way local courts that have long to be renovated can receive support for renovation and investment. So there is a significant additional cost. As regards judicial wages and their comparison, the comparison recalled by the Member is undoubtedly true, comparing the judicial wages of certain Member States of the European Union, but it is advisable to compare the judicial wages with those of Hungary. It is appropriate to compare the salaries of lawyers working in the public administration and lawyers working in specific legal qualifications, not usually lawyers, but lawyers working in legal qualifications with judges' wages. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that when we came to government in 2010 and adopted the single-key tax system, it increased, among other things, the wages of those judges in net terms, so their net earnings have been significantly increased by the transition to a single-key tax system. So, while these numbers you recall compare gross wages in the European Union, or at least on the basis of gross wages, and look at judicial wages as if no progress has been made in recent years, I suggest that Members of Parliament take into account net wage increases in judicial wages. So, once again, I did not argue that we should not increase judicial wages, but that I wanted to set out reasons why the current budget contains, for example, more than HUF 90 billion in funding for the courts, why it contains more than HUF 38 billion in support for the prosecution, and how the costs and the country's expenditures are shared for justice. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[In the notary seat Mrs. Hegedűs Loránt will be replaced by Adam Mirkóczki.]]
u2015-05-29-110	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. For a proper speech from the Fidesz Group, Mr Károly Panczél applied. Here you go.
u2015-05-29-111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, For the second time, this is a submitted draft budget law on which a Parliament may debate and vote in the near future, which has been contributed not only by Hungarian votes in motherland but also across borders. So in any case, the emergence of votes across the border in Hungarian political life and the establishment of parliament is an honor, pride and a serious responsibility. As we look at the amounts that can be spent on national policy, we can safely say that the items of this draft budget on national policy serve this responsibility. The survival of the broken parts of a nation depends most on the commitment of the people living there to their culture, language, customs. However, it is also important that their physical and architectural memories also have a chance to survive, which are the defining, visible heritage of the particular community, and where Hungarians in the motherland can also be banished to get a broader picture of the history of the place. The predecessor of the cross-border renovation program was created in 98 to serve this purpose. The national heritage program was used to renovate decaying castles and churches, but by 2006 the then government had completely withdrawn the funds. Today, by restoring the original goal, the Prime Minister's Office supports the preservation of Hungarian built heritage across the border by HUF 200 million. It is a big step forward compared to the 2006 situation, but we can also say that last year, as compared to the 2015 budget, this amount increased in a large proportion. The amount intended to support cross-border agricultural and environmental tasks has also increased, thus rising from HUF 45.7 million to HUF 100 million. This appropriation is intended to help the professional programmes of Hungarian farmers' organisations across the border, including the operation of the villager's network, participation in exhibitions, training courses and professional conferences in Hungary and the organisation of agricultural development and environmental programmes in education, vocational training. Local intellectuals represent an indisputable resource for the survival of cross-border communities. The Ministry of Human Resources is in charge of supporting cross-border higher education tasks. The most important task is to maintain and increase the number of Hungarian intellectuals living in the minority and to promote their intellectual development. In the field of the development of cross-border Hungarian higher education, it is an outstanding task to carry out the scholarship of Hungarian students and teachers from across borders and to support Hungarian higher education institutions, vocational schools and student organisations. Our aim is to provide support to at least one training centre per region and to finance the participation of at least 25 Hungarian teachers in external trainings in the reference year, and to start at least two new placement courses. This appropriation is used by individual decision and tender, with support for cross-border higher education tasks increased by more than 14 percent in the 2016 budget, from 354 million to more than 400 million forints. The EMMI also provides for support for cultural tasks across borders. Next year it will rise to HUF 74,4 million. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the implementation of the professional programme of cross-border performing arts, theatres and dance groups, as well as the support for public and intellectual heritage-related tasks included in the minutes of intergovernmental minority committees operating with neighbouring countries and joint inter-ministerial committees and government decisions. This appropriation is also intended to finance programmes and community development tasks in cross-border public education institutions. In the 2016 budget, as in this year's 2015 budget, 1 billion HUF 227 million is allocated to the Unlimited Programme by the state. The Unlimited Programme is an operational programme of national cohesion, with the main aim of providing at least once in their life Hungarian schoolchildren with cross-border nationalities, with as many active connections as possible. Since the government's aim was to ensure, by the end of the cycle, that a full year's student would reach a territory inhabited by Hungarians across borders in a year, that support would be gradually increased until 2018. The current budget for the programme is the same as for this year, but it cannot, in my view, be achieved. I myself have made an amendment proposal that would raise this framework to HUF 2 billion, so by raising it to HUF 3 billion in 2017, we could make a contribution to the departure of an entire class of students in the future. Among the pillars of the foreign Hungarians, I have already highlighted the intellectuals, the people who are committed to the maintenance of tradition, the Hungarian mother tongue, culture and local folk customs, but I have not spoken of the dedicated priests and clergymen who, with their sacrificial activities, are also doing and working every day to preserve the foreign parts of the nation. [[17.10]] Miklós Soltész mentioned this topic hours earlier, but I think it is important to remember and speak again about those church persons serving in the Hungarian language in the Hungarian congregations across the border whose income is covered by this budget. It contributes to reducing the assimilation of Hungarians across the border and preserving Hungarians living in sporadics. This amount, which I am talking about, is also supported by EMMI, which will double next year, increasing from HUF 210 million to HUF 400 million. This appropriation is intended to cover the additional income of religious persons serving in the congregations of foreign sporadic settlements in the Hungarian language, as well as additional support for their national preservation activities. The 2016 budget provides for a separate state fund, the Bethlen Gábor Fund, to support it. Through this basis, the government provides cover for mutual understanding of Hungarian communities living within and outside Hungary. Since 2013, it has provided large amounts of grants to those in need of education and education, to institutions of national importance, of which more than fifty, or to institutions of outstanding importance such as the University of Sapientia in Transylvania or the Partium Christian Hungarian University or in Transcarpathia II. Ferenc Rákóczi College. And here, from the fund, education, education, textbooks, teaching tools and student support to educational institutions across the border, as well as institutional developments, will be implemented. In addition to many other activities, the Bethlen Gábor Fund also supports the maintenance of the House of Hungarians. The funding of the Bethlen Gábor Fund increased compared to the 2015 budget, with HUF 11 billion HUF 807.5 million in 2016. Overall, if we add the funds spent specifically on national policy purposes to different wallets, the Bethlen Gábor Fund, then this is about HUF 21 billion, but we also have to say, about culture, mother tongue, education, that the survival of Hungarians, their prosperity in their homeland is also the most economic issue, and we are pleased to see that in the coming time the government is planning tens of billions of forints on economic development and cross-border economic relations as well. Looking at the 2016 budget bill, therefore, we can say that we have a moderate, well-thought-out draft in our hands from a national political point of view, and I would ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of the bill, taking these aspects into account. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-29-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mrs Bangóné Borbély Ildikó. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-05-29-113	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear fellow Members, I would like to shed some light on the problems in education from the point of view of the children. Today there are 1 219 518 children in day school, here we are talking about primary schools and secondary schools. From the Student Parliament's record, it's a pretty good piece of material, and it contains the children's opinion. I'd like to read it to you. It is clear from these reports that almost all the problems that have been raised by the changes of the Fidesz-KDNP government in recent years have been caused by students. By far, most of the complaints were about how the students were overwhelmed and explaining why. The five weekly physical education classes and the introduction of religious and ethics at the high school were made with amazing dates. Here students are already studying certain subjects on an elevated level, and it is now regular that children have 8 hours a day, and some have less than 7 days. There are 40 compulsory classes a week in high school. In addition, it would be necessary to prepare for graduation, where appropriate to play sports, play music and work the mandatory 50 hours of volunteer work required for graduation. There's a high school, but there's also a primary school where lunch starts at 3:00 and 3:30 p.m., and we're talking about kids, 3:00 p.m. and 3:30 p.m., on two tours. But it also indirectly ruins the lives of students by raising the number of hours. Almost all the representatives of the rural schools indicated that Volán and MÁV's flights fit in with the previous school hours, so that high school students living in smaller settlements can't get home even after hours of their final hours. A lot of people have asked that the authorities do something, because it's really bad that they can't get home after 8:00. And then let's talk about physical education. Five P.E. classes annoy all the kids. [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] At least 60 percent of all complaints were about... [[To intervene:]] I could tell you about it, Congressman, my children also suffer from the fact that the conditions are not assigned to it, that there is no gym or dressing room to make sense of five physical classes a week. Insanely, in Hungary, their prime minister's mental vision is being fulfilled in a fungus way. [[Uproar, interrogation from the pro-government benches.]] In order to have a stadium in all settlements or larger settlements, the children have been introduced without conditions, there is no way that they can complete five hours of physical education per week. There are schools in Budapest where the theoretical physical education class was introduced. [[Dr. Répássy, Róbert: Don't you have a physical education class in Budapest?]] Since there is no place to teach regular gymnastics, students learn sports history and watch sports events from video. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: They must be social teachers.]] Well, congratulations, fellow Members. There's such a thing as a gym class in the hallway... [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] I'd like you to hear what I have to say, Congressman. Maybe your kid doesn't get that, but we do. Kids are jamming other kids because of gym class in the hallway, and they're jamming classes in the classrooms. There are three or four classes that use the gym, keep the watch, but because of the crowd, it doesn't make sense and it's dangerous. [[Dr. Répássy, Róbert: Children don't even like five days of teaching.]] There's a clock in the yard, but it's mostly winter. Some places, because of the little locker room, it's only after the bells ring that the students can start to change. In some cases, the solution has been to have a zero-hour physical education class even in elementary school. In general fifth and sixth classes, 18 hours a year would be mandatory. There are schools where this is simply cancelled because there is no swimming pool. Because they would build schools with some small money in Hungary, but there are settlements where they wrote to the Ministry - because they sent the letter to us - that they would not be able to build the school because they would not be able to sustain it later. The other very big problem is textbooks, honourable fellow Members. After physical education, the second most mentioned problem was related to textbooks. From this point on, it is clear that the distribution of the textbooks, which has been centralised by the state, has been a failure in the current academic year. Even in the middle of October, many student representatives complained that many books were missing, some where the teacher did not have a new textbook. In many places, the books of the previous year were collected and distributed from the seniors. But since the state has banned most of the previous books, most of these books are not what they should learn from. The only thing about the free textbook is that I myself experienced that we had received the long-term textbook or free textbook, and then for a week we bought the next one with our own money, because it fell apart as early as the first week. [[Miklós Soltész: If the child doesn't take care of him. I'd be at home looking for trouble if it fell apart in a week. You shouldn't be throwing.]] Many also complained about the quality of new books. A former student who talked about teachers scolding new books, there were complaints that they were studying the same curriculum as last year because of the transition. Like last year, do you understand, Your Honour? ! [[Noise, interrogations from the ranks of the governing parties, including Dr. Répássy Róbert: When are you going to talk about the budget? The president's ringing the bell.]] It's part of the budget, I'm telling you the budget. And, of course, we have a CLIK. [[Miklós Soltész: Social clique.]] , to which we will spend HUF 16.8 billion more in the 2016 budget, the daily problems of children will not be solved by the government in the next year's budget. Dear fellow Members, For 58 billion forints, it may be important to build new stadiums in the next year's budget, while the gym has only 3 billion forints. In Hungary, very successful football may be more important to you than solving the problem of daily physical education for children. You can laugh at that in the benches across the street, I don't laugh every day when my kids go through it or the kids who go to Kaba in the other settlements. [[17.20]] I don't smile about it at home. Plus, I told you yesterday, they're spending 7.3 billion forints on the next budget year. [[Dr. Répássy, Róbert: It bothers you with your religion, doesn't it?]] And then I'd like to quote a few sentences, because we've talked a lot about the social sphere in the last few days. There's a protest outside. I'd like to quote two sentences that the protesters are shouting, and they're not yelling at us, they're yelling at you. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: They yelled at you too!]] Let's make a living out of this, you wretches! Orbán, come out! 'Cause they think he's in here working. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: We heard what was different.]]
u2015-05-29-114	Sorry, Congresswoman. Mr. Secretary, if you'd like to speak at any time, I'd like to ask you to press the button if you want to speak. Thank you. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: Yes, Mr. President.]]
u2015-05-29-115	Thank you, Mr. President. [[László Teleki: Bravo!]] Mr. Secretary, it's possible to smile at it, and how children suffer every day, I can't smile at it. Not even what's going on out on the street. It would be nice to wake up and see what's going on around you, because I told you here yesterday, inside these walls, you may be protected, but you won't soon be, and it would be nice if you thought about it now. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-05-29-116	Thank you very much. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr Ander Balázs. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-05-29-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, What I would like to say in the course of the budgetary debate is nothing more than the case of small settlements with fewer than a thousand inhabitants. Although only 7.5 percent of our country's population has fallen to less than 10 million people, about 750,000 people live in such villages, but some 55 percent of the settlements are almost 1800 villages. Apart from the fortunate city of nearby or holiday areas, where there is a relatively high supply of jobs and a relatively dense transport network, they are in very serious trouble, you might say, at the end of 24 hours. Something has to be done urgently, otherwise they will soon cross the line from which the processes described precisely by small village syndrome cannot be reversed: population decline, ageing, youth migration, social degradation, withdrawal of the state institutional system, development, lack of investment, ever-increasing ethnic restructuring, the weakening of the sample tax layer, the inexcusable blockage of irresistible change of values, I might say: the feeling of falling out of the world will change into an irreversible, tragic fact. Without a state rescue package, their dying will be at an end stage. We have often said: for Jobbik, all 3,200 Hungarian settlements are also a Hungarian citadel in the fight for national survival, so we do not give up on them. For those living in small settlements in most of the economic regions which are already unfavourable, the many disadvantages make everyday life particularly step-by-step. The cumbersome accessibility of subregional centres from small villages, the lack of resources, the low level of institutionalisation is only one of the most painfully tangible segments of this complex set of problems. Changes in recent decades have also distorted the internal relations of damaged, mutilated small settlement societies. It must be said that a shrunken network of contacts in many cases makes the people living there unable to join forces and reintegrate into society. The lack of initiative, the lack of solidarity and cooperative communities will further exacerbate the situation, which will not be resolved on its own without increased public attention. Instead of living in poverty, ageing settlements, self-sustaining villages, instead of migration from unemployment, a growing population remaining in their homeland would characterize the Hungarian countryside in the event of the realisation of Jobbik's ideas. Today, however, the degradation of the built environment, along with the destruction of the population, has also taken on a shocking scale. The tens of thousands of vacant dwellings of small settlements - these are farm buildings that are well suited for farmland farming - will be destroyed in the light of current developments, and not only because by 2050 many small settlements will be completely depopulated and extinct. The forested bush will grow into the place of the villages. Ladies and gentlemen, According to recent surveys, 40 percent of the settlements in my narrower Patria, Somogy County, are on the road to extinction. All this is an irreplaceable loss, since with its past, traditions, folk songs and tales, each one is the bearer of a unique and unrepeatable piece of the history of the nation. In part, it is also up to the current budget how many settlements can be recaptured by the forest, and how many places the fallen fences and the fallen walls become sad mementos of the Hungarian passing. In the absence of complex, well-coordinated, state-funded programmes, the population retention power of small settlements remains low. The emptying of our ancient villages is becoming more and more rapid, and in many places, only decaying layers of ruin society, bound to a clot by poverty, remain radically distant from organic peasant culture. To avoid this, the government should also, in the same way, seek to implement rural development programmes which, building on the values of people and the community, cultivate traditions, manage natural resources in a sustainable way, and develop agriculture to restore the value of rural life. It sounds nice, but there is only one problem: even in the 2014-20 EU development cycle, only HUF 70 billion is intended to address the most burning problems of small settlements under 1000 people. On average, an average of HUF 6 million per village concerned, if any, a multi is awarded in the form of state aid for the creation of a single job. The Jobbik think that small settlements deserve a lot more than that. The other area I want to deal with briefly is the transport issue, which is closely linked to what we have just said. On the basis of the sets of figures planned for 2016 for the central budget, the disproportionate development and maintenance resources of road transport financing appear prominently. In short, in a nutshell, I could say that the country will continue to be torn apart, the countryside will crumble in terms of infrastructure and transport; as in the body, when the arteries are relatively fine, but the capillaries will die completely. The development of the motorways of 222 billion plus 111 billion operating expenditure, i.e. 333 billion are opposed to the development of the rural road network of 7 billion and the maintenance and operation of 60 billion. It is a striking further example of a decline in proportion, for example, that Hungaroring's support by 12 billion is 20 percent of the annual maintenance budget of the entire Hungarian road network. No misunderstanding, the priority development of the motorway network is welcome, but the increasing degradation of the road network connecting settlements becomes a problem for rural Hungary. Jobbik is convinced that in order to improve and maintain the quality of the existing road network, the viability and development of rural Hungary should be increased. But we also see the same in the railway transport of rural Hungary, where, in essence, since the beginning of the 1980s, there has been no substantial acquisition of vehicles. Following the spectacular re-opening of a small part of the rural railways closed by socialist governments in 2010, the process stopped, even a spectacular rear-view was made in 2012, and today, in most places, up to 2-3 train pairs of alibi transports are maintained with ancient, unsuited, scalloped vehicles. Another interesting part of the financing anomalies is that in community transport, the VAT cap is 27 per cent, including social discount tickets, while the VAT right of passenger transport companies is prohibited. Thus, the full amount of VAT collected, as a reimbursement of the non-income-covered costs, will be redistributed later. Breaking up revenue and cost data to increase the administrative burden and subsequently to say how expensive this is for public transport and how unsustainable it is to supply small settlements. Maintaining taxation on consumption in Community transport within a known framework of financing conditions is completely pointless. The disproportionate financing of transport and transport infrastructure can also be seen in the municipality's 2016 budget. [[17 .30]] The basic support for small towns' roads is less than half of the cities over 40,000 with 227 thousand forints/km, but small towns receive only 295 thousand forints instead of 470 thousand. In our villages, there will still be no living infrastructure, muddy dirt roads. The same scandalous approach is reflected in the municipal chapter of the budget in support of local community transport by municipal authorities. On the one hand, the State provides at a legal level for the compulsory application of social tariffs and for the increasing number of free transport passengers, on the other hand, it does not provide normative support to municipalities to cover the costs of local transport tasks not covered by revenue. Yet, what is given is a serious imbalance. Even after the 6 billion-dollar auction, the capital transport will still receive 18 billion, and all other local transport-maintaining municipalities will be able to apply for only 2 billion in total by way of grant. Thus, with the small towns of rural Hungary, local community transport may continue to degrade, cease to exist, and possibly continue to operate an outdated, damaged fleet. In order to reduce this disproportionateness, we propose that the support for local community transport in rural cities from the central budget - by reducing Hungaroring's budget of 12 billion - be increased by HUF 3 billion to HUF 5 billion. The government prefers to call itself family-friendly. It would be good for many families with children who love to go on excursions by raising the support for the operation of small railway in the forest from 30 to 50 million by accepting our proposal, ensuring that it doesn't just work on Felcsút. It would also be very important for us to adopt our amending ideas on the construction of cycling routes, since creating conditions for recreational and sporting cycling tourism would not only be a family-friendly step, but it would also fundamentally improve the tourism offer of an area. Dear fellow Members, fellow members of the Government, believe me that rural people in Hungary today often feel as though they were meeting somewhere, putting their heads together, and, following the logic of combat surgery, they decided that certain regions, some regions, do not deserve development resources. If you know, then get yourself out of trouble, save yourselves from your own strength, but the state, because they may have been deemed irretrievable, will no longer provide funds. Please change this idea, this method, and accept the amendments tabled by Jobbik. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-29-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform this House that it will give the Fidesz Group eight minutes of the timeframe of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State László Tasó asked for the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-05-29-119	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Presents, Mrs Bangóné has gone out, I am sorry, I do not know if she will come back, I would very much like her to come back, but if not, tell her to tell her that I reject what she has just said in a threatening tone and style on behalf of my fellow Members. The MSZP or Bangóné should not threaten us and should not try to make the protestors outside appear as if the people who protest outside were the voice of the country. The other is that we have heard from him about material errors to which we must respond, and not only about material errors, but simply about distorting reality. I didn't personally hear anything about Hajdú-Bihar County or where he lived, in that district or neighborhood, that I didn't have the opportunity to go home to students. It's a lie. It's not like that, it's never been said. If there was a problem, I'm pretty sure they'd come looking for me as a hairdo-bihari. What is also very important: those sentences, although in some way linked to the budget, require a response, including the fact that Congresswoman Bangóné said that the use of gymnasiums is impossible, because there are no gymnasiums and they cannot hold the part of physical education set out in the pedagogical programme and the five hours per week. I would like to stress that physical education is not only possible in a gym. It is very likely that there are many people in this room who, in their childhood, as students, did not spend their physical education classes in gymnasiums and not in gymnasiums, but also outdoors or even in classrooms. So talking about it in this tone and this way, and bringing stadium construction together with gym constructions is not just irresponsible, but I think it's outrageous. There is not much to say about Mrs Bangón's contribution - I think there will be others who will respond - but once again, what some people - perhaps you or others - are organising is not the voice of the country. I would certainly like to respond to Mr Ander Balázs' concerns about transport. First of all, I think that the comment was written a few years earlier - only some of the elements have now been improved - because it is a completely different situation than that which was spoken of by the Member. During his previous interpellations, more specifically oral questions, he spoke about the situation of transport in Hungary somewhat more objectively than he did now in his comments. I would like to remind you that for the first time in the current budget, there is a significant item in the order of HUF 160 billion that will ensure the development of very important road connections from the Hungarian budget in the following year. These are not only fast - running networks, but also secondary or third - order main roads. So Hungary's government, the Hungarian government, not only deals with the establishment of fast-track connections, and not only favours them, but also tries to develop all our economic areas in a proportionate way. There's no exception here. If you look at and read the information available either from our transport development programme or from the lists that have been dissected several times between Parliament's walls, you will see that a systematic and proportionate programme for catching up is indeed being implemented. At the moment, I can tell you that the road 67 in Somogy County, which is an extremely important road link to that region, will be built, as you have already heard, we would like to finish by 2018, but in 2016 it will be possible to start its construction. If it is about transport and highlights public transport and says that no improvements have been made, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Flirt is already a fleet of engines for Hungary over 100 units. Further purchases are under way and we would like to purchase more than 50+10 vehicles for 200 or even 300 persons for the development of the railway part of public transport. In addition, Kaposvár's bus fleet is now being renewed in its entirety, as they were given the opportunity to buy a 28-piece bus not too long ago, thanks to the government. That is why I say that we should speak more objectively. I understand that this is the party's expectation, and you have to say such sharp things, but so far I have learned from your comments that you are really trying to make a statement adapted to the situation, and you are really trying to be objective, objective on occasion. The bicycle roads were also mentioned, and perhaps he accused us of not being sufficiently involved in the construction of bicycle roads. The experience is almost fresh, and a few days ago I made a statement about it, and I think you've read some news about where bicycle road passes took place, where after cycling campaigns took place, and what investments are being made. Twenty-some of the investments will now have the chance to be implemented by the end of the year with the remaining resources. It's almost 50 in preparation, and hopefully, if not this year, it'll be ready to leave next year. 534 kilometers of cycling paths were built from 2010 to 2014, and another 1000, we hope, can be built in the vicinity of 1500 kilometers by 2020. According to some analyses in the third Europe, after Denmark and the Netherlands, the third, where most responders, 22 percent of respondents say that they prefer and prefer the bicycle to be used as a means of transport. So the point is, we didn't forget about the Little Railways. We have a plan that will restore all Hungarian small trains in ten years, examining their integration into public transport as an investment part of tourism and tourism importance. [[17.40]] We would definitely like to connect the existing ones to the network and rebuild those that used to be. We intend, as I said, to implement this programme within ten years. Once again, I would like to see a more realistic picture, help with it, and provide information to the Member, because the Hungarian budget is the budget that makes it clear that, while keeping up the real difficult task of maintaining the roads, it is very much trying to help Hungary's economic growth to stabilize and to increase further. What is important is that we really need a lot more money for road maintenance, operation, operation of the system, and everyone knows that, but unfortunately we have the burdens that we inherited earlier, so our revenues from the toll system have also been burdened with the elements loaded by the Bajnai, Gyurcsány government, which currently represent HUF 114.5 billion a year for Hungary in the PPP programme. We have to deal with such burdens, we have to pay Hungarians such insane plans now, and therefore we cannot turn this amount of our income into a way of sustaining the roads. By the way, it's four billion forints more, but I agree that there could be more and more. I hope that we will still have the opportunity to find resources for the maintenance, renovation, maintenance and minor improvements of the roads. What is important is that I remember that many of the lower road networks and roads are under construction. The programme element announced in the framework of the Regional Operational Development Programme, which we may have approved at the end of 2013, will be launched shortly, thanks to the NGM, but it will now happen. In the framework of this, we would like to spend HUF 18 billion this year on the renovation of four and five-digit roads. These roads, more precisely, are clear to all, and can be seen from the fact that if we draw them on the map, road renovations from this programme, road renovation from the 50 billion-dollar programme, road constructions from the domestic budget and EU funds, they show on the maps how proportionate and necessarily we intervene in the life of the road network. In English, there is no only discarded development, there is no only earned development. There is only a development that is thoughtful, integrated into the system of economic development and served as the basis for it. We accept all the criticisms of Community transport, as we are certain that we still have work to do in the system of public transport. We're in the process of coordinating the system. I very much hope that this will happen and that a more effective system of public spending will be established. It is absolutely certain that improvements that have been referred to as intermodal or interlinking modes of transport, which give county-righted cities the opportunity to build, are of great importance to the inhabitants of all counties, to all county road users, since it is the county-righted cities and the county-based seats that attract the labour force to the greatest extent and receive passengers to the greatest extent. We hope that in all cases where requests have already been made and plans are in advanced condition, we can help to start investments. A lot of investment, including investment in Debrecen, can be started very soon, and the current system of meeting transport links will change enormously with the investment. We would like to build centres that are clearly adapted to the expectations, but do not go beyond the appropriate proportions and scale, and they do serve what they are otherwise meant to do. I am absolutely sure that the efficiency of the public transport system will also be helped by the continuous construction of modern passenger information systems, which are linked to all our investments, and it is also certain that the rental and ticket system will be merged and unified by the end of next year. Our intention is to make it easier to plan the use of public transport systems in Hungary and to buy tickets from any settlement in Hungary. This is a fundamental expectation, and I think that we will not miss the countries of Europe in this, nor in the next few months, and that will be done by the end of next year. In connection with rail development, it has been said many times, but I am trying to emphasise once again: not only the purchase of motor trains, but also the construction of key trans-European networks is under way. It is enough to mention the South Balaton, the second phase of which we can begin shortly, and now we are in the process of the first phase, Kőröshegy, Szántód, and then we will go all the way to Balatonszentgyörgy in the second stage. This investment could be completed by 2018. In addition, the Békéscsaba.Lőökösháza and even serious lines, such as Rákos.Hatvan, Hatvan.Miskolc, Miskolc., Nyíregyháza will be renovated, or I can see that Congresswoman Bangóné has already returned, for example, the renovation of the Bishop's College line will begin immediately, and I hope that the Ladányi line to the Biharkerkeresztes will also be electrified. Rail development is also carried out in proportion and according to necessity throughout Hungary, and not to mention that there are plans that seem grand even now, which will make it apparent in the coming years that we are an extremely important country of the world, the most important country for us, but also for Europe, as relations between the sea and the sea, which are important for transit traffic, will also be helped by the Budapest-Belgrád railway line which runs through Hungary. Or, for example, the installation and adjustment of container trains in Hungary seems to be increasing. This is clearly what the expansion of logistics centres makes possible, as well as making the Hungarian economy competitive. In Debrecen and in other cities, in Budapest Soroksár, and elsewhere, there are efforts to develop these centres, and within the framework of economic programmes we will provide support for them. In 2016, the Hungarian budget keeps our current job maintenance opportunities at a level and naturally focuses on developments, much more than in previous years. After 12 years of socialist governance, not even 10 percent of the total amount was tangible and experiential to the source that would otherwise have been used directly from the domestic budget to build roads. There were previously addressed and target subsidies, which are obviously the reason why people here have the idea, regardless of whether they are directly, in a single item, in a year, as they will be in the following year, in 2016, HUF 160 billion from the Hungarian budget was not used for road construction. I very much hope that this new instrument, which the European Union provides to us as a so-called means of financing the network, will help us to make a great deal of progress in the field of inland waterway transport as well. I am sure you know, Mr President, that the people in Parliament know that the construction of a new bridge in the Danube will be our hope and can start in the coming period, perhaps already in the second semester, I am talking about Komárom - the bridge in Komárom - among other things, and it is clear that the development of the spill-over system will also help to make the Danube navigability longer. We would like to set a period of 250 days for shipping, which, in our view, could also be expected to be significantly more helpful in the transfer of freight traffic. It is absolutely certain and clear that inland waterway freight traffic is not a real competition for road or rail freight traffic, however, in each case, when we are able to transfer to inland waterways and networks to some extent, it means a lot to the environment. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-05-29-120	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. There are two-minute speeches coming up. First I give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-05-29-121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course I'm back. You know, Mr. Secretary, I was here the whole time in the budget debate. That cannot be said for you. What I read was from the minutes, citations, and we didn't write it, Mr. Secretary, but the students said, and first they complained to the teachers, their parents, then the representatives of the KLIK, and to this day they didn't get a reply to the problems raised. I believe that it is our job to say that the problems that affect almost 1 million 300 000 children are the ones that we are going to say here in Parliament in the 2016 budget. The other is social workers. You're the one who said things about who's organizing them. I think they're going out on their own because they're sick of what's happening to them in this country. The other, Mr Secretary of State, you, who is so familiar with transport - I at least know him, because I travel on the means of transport every day - one example is to look at this, because when I mentioned a problem with the M4 in my speech the other day, he promised me that he would reply in writing and I have not received it since. [[17.50]] You know, there hasn't been a first class on fast trains since January. But when we go to the MÁV register and people want to buy tickets, because they have no idea that you guys have canceled this, they're gonna rent out the first-class ticket for the fast trains in the ticket office. They're going to publish it faceless! People were paid more than a thousand forints without a first-class car on these flights. Find out how much revenue the budget has made by paying people for services they don't get. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-05-29-122	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr Ander Balázs also applied for a two-minute speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-05-29-123	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, God forbid that what you promised to do here will be done. There must be no misunderstanding, we are not the country, we are not enemies of the Hungarian nation, but it must be said that we cannot be happy either when, say, the development of so-called developments is set in the spotlight, such as the case of the Esztergom-Budapest railway line. It's a failed development. But I could say that there was the Bishop's Council line, the case of perhaps the most expensive railway line in the world, and we do not applaud, we do not blow the fanfares, even when these overpriced projects are not even driven by wheelbarrows, but carried out with terrible large trucks and tractors, wheelbarrowing, pushing these funds out to the politically selected vassals who receive these assignments. By the way, I tried to give an insightful example when I was talking about the country being torn in two. When I said that there was not enough emphasis on the countryside, I meant, for example, the Kaposvár, the Kaposvár, the Fonyód lines, or the Sellyei railway, which even Zsolt Tiffán himself said should be built and described the benefits of it in one of his press releases. The big problem, Mr. Secretary, is that we hear nothing about the implementation of this. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-29-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László Teleki of the MSZP Group will be able to give a proper speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-05-29-125	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Returning to the previous duel of words in a sentence, I think that we should also have seen the show Outside the House - there the children told us what the condition of the gymnasiums was - and then we could have had a real picture, because I think that the children are not lying, but telling real things and telling us what is in the gymnasiums today. I also did gymnastics in a gym at my age, so I had this, but I think that progress cannot be stopped, but it must be released, and development in my reading means that there should be gymnasiums where children would like to go, and not sports halls - and I would not like to refer to it - would be construction, development, innovation, but children should be given quality conditions to which they would like to go. In the next section, I would like to talk about the fact that you have withdrawn funds from education, health care and municipalities, and by reshaping the social care system, it is clear everywhere that the poor will not benefit in any way in the 2016 budget year. I'm saying this because if we go through some of the things we've already done, I think that anyone who's been here in the last 19 hours has heard it a lot, especially from the opposition side, that there are several levels of stagnating that are a very big problem. In the spirit of equal opportunities, which you say many times, and perhaps rightly so, how important equal opportunities are in different areas, we have heard very nicely today from fidesz benches how important it is, let us say, for the Roma, to catch up, which, I think, is true, and I am pleased that, if not in other words, at least, you can hear it from you; although I would also like to hear from Flórán Farkas, what he thinks about the Roma issue in this budget, what means of catching up he sees and how he sees it. Unfortunately, in the 20-hour debate, he didn't have a chance to tell me how he saw it. Some specific things before I say a few things about the Roma issue. I think that it would have been important to raise the amount due to autists, because there are more and more of them, and there are problems in which you can actually see that there should be resources in the future that could help them, and unfortunately this is not happening in this budget. Believe me, not only do I say this in order to run out of time, but I really think that the signals they are giving you, the members of the government, the Hungarian Parliament, must hear, and I think that you, who are also in the countryside and in the area, must perceive the problem you have, let us say, the autists in this case. But also the Red Cross has a similar problem. Blood donation is one of the biggest problems in the country, and many times they cannot even organize it well and properly, because they often lack resources. So the amount that is now shown in the funds, on the expenditure side, can be said again that it will be enough to maintain some Red Cross offices, institutions, but that they can improve cannot be seen from the budget that is written here. So if you think about it - I say nothing but blood donation and I don't even say welfare here - how important their work is, I think they need to feel the position of people who need blood every day and can't get it because they don't know who's picking it up. Therefore, I think it is important to look a little deeper into this issue. I'm not giving you any numbers now, and I'm not saying any of the items that I'd say I'd pull off, and I'd put it on the lines of the Red Cross, because I don't want to be false to bring up the extra billions of forints you've put there again to build stadiums or to sports. All I'm saying, though, is that you pay attention to these costs, because this could be very important. In addition, what I think I should definitely mention, and I think it is important that the other public foundations also have stagnation. During yesterday, I have heard that there will be a shift in deaf people and hearing people, but we do not yet see this amount in the budget lines. That's why it's important to keep an eye on this. If it is true that they are planning something with that line, then I am pleased and reassured, because I already indicated a year ago that there should be funds there, perhaps in this cycle I said it among my first speeches. What I may not have heard, and I have not heard, is that I think it is important that Secretary of State Soltés said that, if I remember correctly, yesterday was a day at a kindergarten inauguration, which I am glad to hear, because I think it is important, because if you have made kindergarten care free, it is very important to renovate it and to provide resources for the kindergarten system, which means expanding the number of seats. I think that this is also not visible in the budget, that it will be very attached to the problem that we are seeing now, because what we see now is that more and more people want to see their children in safe kindergartens, but they cannot receive them in many places, because the space is limited, so I would like to get a reassuring answer on this issue either in the budget or in words, and I hope that I will. But back to the kindergartens of nationalities, there is a huge problem here, because the law requires that if eight parents ask for the establishment and establishment of a national kindergarten, they must give it, but the source of it was not co-ordinated this year, so the national authorities and their maintenance staff cannot do anything for these particular national kindergartens. I've just had five mayors from nationality areas this week who asked us to come up with something, because in September they can't start a national preschool, even though the law requires them to do so if the parents ask. So I think that I would also like to ask for some kind of foresight on what will happen to the kindergartens here, because I think that this question is also very important. [[18.00]] I have some thoughts and very little time left on the Roma issue, just a few thoughts. I think it is very important and I really think it is important that what has happened is that a national strategy has been developed in the Roma case - called a national Roma strategy - which, I think, is important. We also see that a program, the Bridge, has started its work, but this bridge construction has stopped halfway through, so we can't go through, the Roma can't cross this bridge because it hasn't been built. It has not been built because 100,000 jobs have been promised in this programme, and I would like to point out that we do not see a fraction of the fact that Roma employment has started. I told you yesterday, I would like to mention today with a sentence that, yes, I see an increase in public employment, which is also welcome, because I think it is an important step that public employment is at least provided to those who cannot find employment. However, I do not see where they can go after 3, 6 or 8 months, and what about those who may have worked 4 or 6 hours, and after six months they have to leave this employment. After one, two, three, four or five years, what happens to them? Will there be an alternative to where they can go? I don't see that in this budget either. I would therefore consider it important that employment in the work and other programmes of the Bridge, especially if EU funds are linked to this - make it visible and make it really possible for the people that the programmes are about, because the only way to ensure equal opportunities from the government is if people can actually see these, and not only letters and words in the budget, but also deep content behind it. One more thought about a colony program. After a very long period of time, after nearly a decade, the funds for the eradication of Roma settlements have been removed from the budget. I don't know why he got out. If I go around the countryside, I can see that there are Gypsy settlements where nearly 100 to 110 thousand Roma live under hopeless conditions. If we give up these people, we give up nearly 110,000 people. You can't and mustn't give up, because if you give up these 110,000 people, they'll never be taxpayers, paying citizens of this country, and they won't be successful people. It is therefore your responsibility to move forward on this issue. I made my amendment today. I would like to ask you to support my amendment and to include in the chapter of the Parliament the chapter on the provision of some source for the eradication of Gypsy settlements and Roma settlements. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-05-29-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. State Secretary Miklós Soltész asked for the floor on behalf of the government. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-05-29-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I thank you, Mr President, for your calm, calm voice, although I do not say that it is full of error, but rather of political error. I thank you for this thought, too, because what Mrs Bangón has represented here in the last hour and in the way she has spoken to the Prime Minister has gone beneath everything. I must say that you should apologize and apologize; obviously not to MEP László Teleki, but to the socialists, in the manner in which she spoke about an hour ago. But let me respond to Congressman Teleki's words. You mentioned the Red Cross quite rightly, and of course, it is a very important area of the support system, and I would just like to tell you that before 2010, you have constantly reduced the support of the charitable organisations. We've doubled this over the past few years. And there are not three and four prominent charities now, but eight who receive the support. The only reason I'm telling you this is so you don't hold on to it all together, but look at the whole process. The other thing that is absolutely important is that the number of nursery and nursery seats has increased by 30-40 percent in the New Széchenyi Plan programmes over the past four years - and this continues and not only in the budget, but also in the New Széchenyi Plan. There has never been such an increase. In addition, what is perhaps most important - and I give you the absolute truth - is that in child poverty, generally in poverty and in the lives of families in great trouble, one of the greatest help is indeed work, which includes public work, and the other is school education, kindergarten education, and, in particular, support for catering. Show me a government here in the last 25 years that has done so much, like the second Orbán government in the current sequel. In 2010, you spent 28 billion forints on children's meals, thus handing over the budget. We have doubled this in four years, and next year's budget will already be HUF 70 billion in this area. Where is this compared to the way you left the country? Whenever you're talking about poverty, child poverty, hunger and numbers, you're going to have to multiply your time, what happened and what happened in this country. [[Anita Herring: There weren't so many poor people!]] Because you, by the way, were the ones who were constantly using the taxes of the poor, the so-called inflation to boost inflation and try to bury the economic holes. [[Anita Heringes: There was no personal income tax at the minimum wage.]] And you couldn't and you didn't want to keep it down for the poorest people. [[Anita Heringes: The minimum wage has been taxed.]] When the congresswoman's girlfriend, the other Member, spoke, she accused us of interfering with the speeches. [[To Anita Herrings:]] I need you to give me a two-minute push, Congresswoman, and talk to him. The data is public. Unfortunately, the figures for you, I have to say, are completely negative, and you can't do anything about this budget. [[Anita Heringes: The style is man, Mr. Secretary of State. The president's ringing the bell.]] That's why they're just cutting. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-29-128	Thank you very much, Congressman. A proper speech from the MSZP group will be followed by Congresswoman Márta Demeter. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-05-29-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It is not easy for me to do this, because there is a lot to react to in eight minutes, but the truth is that what Mr. Secretary has just said in the end I am deeply shocked. I am sure that you have not heard Viktor Orbán's speech and ukazas today, because now your boss has come up with a new thing to pay attention, so there is not only a policy of power and power, and only - of course it is important, of course we are talking about Viktor Orbán, what else is important to him - but attention. I would suggest to you that you ask for both yesterday's and the previous daily report, because I have not seen all of you, although it is a fact that there is one among you who has been sitting in this Parliament with honor and reading what we have said about everyday life, what we have said about Hungarian reality. We know these things from daily experience, and we are trying to convey them to you, but they are not listening. If they don't experience it themselves, they could at least watch here, within the walls of Parliament. I see you haven't reached the Secretary of State yet. I hope that it will not be a problem that this political change has not taken place here, which is what Viktor Orbán has planned here today. [[Miklós Soltész: Oh, my God!]] I would just like to say that there was no personal income tax at the minimum wage, I would say that the number of people living below the minimum living age in Hungary doubled, while this was about 2 million people in 2010, until the end of 2014 at the beginning of 2015 it was more than 4 million people. And by the way, it is also a fact that about 600,000 young people have left Hungary. This kind of emigration from Hungary has been on record since 1993. [[Dr. Répássy, Róbert: How did you campaign in the European Union referendum? How do you open a bakery in Vienna?]] I would like to say a few words about the Foreign Affairs chapter. Congressman Witzmann has already referred to a few things about Hungary's perception in 2002. He said that the country really had a fantastic view at international level, and then it went down rapidly. I remember that we joined the European Union in 2004, so I do not think that this rapid deterioration is happening, and I think that he should also deal with the closings of the shops in Balaton, as a representative of Somogy County on Sunday rather than making deeply outrageous statements. [[Dr. Répássy, Róbert: 4 million poor people demand that we open the shops.]] The biggest problem is they're still pointing back. I don't really understand where they're trying to point, what they're trying to hold on to when they've been steering for five years in a row. They would have had a lot of opportunities to change the existing problems in the country. They didn't change, they didn't polish things in the hope of a better life, they only made things worse and worse for people. [[Dr. Répássy Robert intervenes.]] Several of my fellow Members have said that the budget for the hit-and-run is the budget for 2016 as we look at it. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: No more said, only MSZPs.]] That's the hit-and-run budget, because they're screwing with low-income earners again, they're helping the higher earners all the time, and they're filling their pockets. [[18.10]] I have to say that the foreign policy chapter - if you insist on it so much, often, always counts as numbers - I cannot say that the foreign policy chapter would be abandoned, but foreign policy is the maximum. There is no Hungarian foreign policy today. There's only one thing: Fidesz interest policy. And when you say in international forums that the real Hungarian interest, by the way, is a narrow Fidesz group, party political and group interest, nothing else; this is constantly being lied to Hungarian national interest. And I wouldn't want to talk about how they're reorganizing departments in the Ministry, how, in what proportion. There's only one thing that would matter if it worked. The past years have proven that Hungarian foreign policy cannot function as it is done, with such manual control, so that it serves only personal interest policies, it cannot function. Hungary has come into diplomatic relations with many countries. We know very well that Hungary is isolated both within the neighbouring countries and within the Visegrád cooperation and in Europe. Now they're trying to compensate, and they're also trying to improve bilateral relations. It's about time, I don't think we should have ruined these relationships. They must now work to improve them. We've seen all kinds of openings, east openings, south openings. By the way, I don't see what's new about the opening of the South, and here, at the time of the first Orbán government, we saw the case of the Chilean cherry, so it was nothing new. I very much hope that this will have better results than that case, by the way. They certainly speak double, so they perform the great success story in international forums, and they do not confront anyone with reality, they try to hide the numbers. I add that they try to hide the numbers at home, they try to hide reality behind numbers, but the Hungarian people feel it, and they experience every day on their skin that, by the way, the measures that are very often just numbers to you, what they mean to them, cannot be hidden from them, neither from the opposition representatives, because they are, we are the ones who keep walking around and talking to them. We are presenting a lot of amendments to the 2016 budget, and we very much ask you to support these proposals. Here another year, the budget has been submitted early, there is an opportunity to think about it, to consider it, to convince Viktor Orbán that these are important proposals and it is necessary to support them. The most important thing is that the public sector needs a 50% wage increase. And do not say that there is no money for certain things, because when there is money for stadiums, for small trains, for fisheries, for airports around Viktor Orbán's house, I am sure that there is a need for money and for their voices to be heard. By the way, I would suggest that the Secretary of State go to the protest quite calmly and calm them down. It is extremely important to reduce the VAT on basic foods to 5%. We will present such an amendment and support it. This is what everyone actually benefits from, this is what small-time earners benefit from, and it is actually fair, because basic foods are what everyone consumes, and they do not have to take out specific examples here, pork, just what kind of interests they have, so we can see that this has a strong impact on legislation and legislation, but the VAT on basic foods needs to be reduced to 5 percent. We have tabled and supported countless other proposals, and they have time to think about it before the final vote. Thank you.
u2015-05-29-130	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the government, Mr Répássy Róbert, State Secretary, requests the floor. Here you go.
u2015-05-29-131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I do not want to conclude the whole day's debate because it will be heard, I think that the rapporteur, I would just like to respond to the recent speeches, which, by the way, defined the whole debate on behalf of the MSZ. It's pretty much what Mária Demeter said here. [[Interviews from the benches of MSZP: Martha!]] Márta Demeter, I apologize, he said that opposition representatives keep walking among people, talking to them, so they know reality better than the government, that is, their elected representatives. [[Anita Heringes: You have not been elected in the last three elections! Deterioration in the pro-government benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] So: we are in this Parliament because we have all been elected by voters, and obviously we have been elected in such a proportion that these Members happen to govern now and you are in opposition. But this arrogance you have here, so that you know the truth, because you are talking to the people, the pro-government representatives, who, by the way, have constituencies and there are voters who voted for them, of course, do not know the reality. Please, I ask very much that you try to change this attitude only for your own, to say the least, for your own success. Believe me, we are among the people, our Members of Parliament, who have a constituency, they are also talking to people, we are dealing with people's problems, and the government is also dealing with people's problems, so I cannot accept this kind of attitude with a good heart. I understand that politically this is a useful sentence, but let's get the MSZP into you a little bit. First of all, their current popularity indicators do not justify this prideful attitude, and secondly, what I was about to say to Congresswoman Bangóné, but rather I joined Secretary Tasó, and I thought what she said was sufficient, but what Mrs Bangóné said about the relationship between the street and the government, and Mrs Demeter just repeated it; please, there are some here in this Chamber, but in the Parliament, there were even more who were parliamentary representatives here in 2006, 2007 and 2008. At the time when the Hungarian Socialist Party was ruling, people were shouting out here to get you out of here! And they said you had to stop governing. By the way, they did not listen to people, but they lasted four years and refused to give up power for four years. I would add that in a democracy, although protests are important and people's opinions are important, and in fact, only the opinion of the people is important, I still think that in a democracy, it is absolutely natural that there are many opinions, there are protests against a government, and there are those who agree with the government, but these opinions will be measured in the elections. Again, I can only say that I ask you very much, because of your self-confidence, that you do not deceive yourself by protesting against the government, that will be good for you, and that will increase your popularity. Imagine it doesn't work that way. That's not how it works! The Jobbik could tell you that it doesn't work because it's because you're trying to insinuate people that they're gonna vote for you. This is, to say the least, a clear message of the three elections that Mrs Heringes was talking about earlier. [[Anita Beringes: I've lost three interim elections! The president's ringing the bell.]] You failed an interim because you didn't win it, so let's skip these comparisons, because voters always decide when they are called to the urn, and a year ago, the general parliamentary elections were held, and Parliamentary elections will be held in three years. I ask you once more, just so you don't fool yourselves by knowing the people's opinions, and we don't know them. We know the opinions of the people, let us assume that we know what people want, let us assume that, in a democracy, the country is a complicated, multi-interested formula, that Parliament must take into account more interests, and when we vote on one of the budget lines, of course we know that we must take into account other budget lines. So while we are giving money to one sector, we know that we should also give it to the other, but we must somehow allocate the resources available to the country. And this is well or poorly proposed by the government in the submitted bill to Parliament to be distributed in such proportions. So once again, I ask my fellow Members, including myself and ourselves, that we all keep our calm, yet we are basically arguing about a budget law, and there is no point in throwing rude things at each other's heads. [[18.20]] And I think it is natural for Members to look at budget laws from their point of view, and I have been involved in a lot of budget debates. There are obviously sectors for which everyone would like to give more money, and believe me, there are many representatives in the government, or even in the governing parties, who would like to give more money to certain sectors, but I believe that the government has made this assessment, and the Government proposes to the Parliament to adopt the bill submitted. That is all I wished, Mr President, to respond to the speeches, but obviously I do not have the last word on behalf of the rapporteur. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-29-132	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. State Secretary László Tasó also asked to speak on behalf of the government, 2 minutes 48 seconds. Here you go.
u2015-05-29-133	Thank you very much, I'll be brief. Just that I'm sending a message to Mrs. Bango. [[Depreciation, interruptions.]] Tell him to be nice that what he said isn't true, so there's no first-class ticket sales on fast and fast trains, so if that's the case, bring it in, if you don't, if you don't have any proof of that, then you lied, that's the case. [[Moore in the ranks of the MSZP.]] And the other one, he answered her...
u2015-05-29-134	Mr. Secretary.
u2015-05-29-135	...he answered her...
u2015-05-29-136	Mr. Secretary.
u2015-05-29-137	... seszták...... Or he was wrong. Mr Seszták replied on the question of the M4. The other is that only ICs have a first-class train. What's important is that you'll be in Parliament no matter how much you talk to anyone, you can't help the country. It's been stolen, sold. [[Anita Beringes: Mr. President! Márta Demeter: Lőrinc Ripper?! Árpád Habony?!]] Or they've delivered the country. So feel free, no matter how much you're going to be with people or whatever you're doing in here, they won't help you in Hungary. We can do this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-29-138	Thank you very much. [[Anita Beringes intervenes.]] Madam Congresswoman, I would be happy to give you the floor - unfortunately there is no way. [[Anita Heringes: Only when the Secretary of State says such things...]] On behalf of the government, Mr. Miklós Soltész, State Secretary. [[Anita Beringes: It drives a man out of his mind.]] I would ask everyone to try to remain disciplined, under parliamentary conditions, not to have to exercise my disciplinary authority here at the last stage of the debate. Mr. Secretary Soltés is next.
u2015-05-29-139	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll count those 15 seconds, if I may. I would like to respond very briefly to the suggestion made by Mrs Márta Demeter. Don't worry about me, okay, don't worry about the Prime Minister, don't worry about anyone I've told you, I'll do it. By the way, I started my sentence by saying that I was pleased with the comments of Mr László Teleki, who had already seen some things here in Parliament, because he was calm, and he did not speak to him in a way as indescribable as Mrs Bangón - and that is a big difference. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Because things can be said in the way the Member said, it is possible to criticise the draft budget as he said, to draw attention to errors, errors, or even bad decisions, as the Member said, but I think that in this Parliament, the voice that the Member said was invaluable; not to mention the threat, it is not really a matter of any concern. Listening to your large, unbudgetary, but interesting presentation, I thought that I could respond otherwise, I can respond to factual figures, at least what you would have suggested; but you did not say, but you said a general thing about things outside the budget. In fact, he couldn't raise any criticism that would be reasonable. What you've raised is completely unrealistic. Exactly the wrong set of economic decisions you've made for eight years as a government, that's what we've had to put in place in our first three years. [[Márta Demeter interrupts.]] And now the country has arrived, and it has just come to the conclusion that there are opportunities in the budget, and there are additional items that you would rather have vanished. And if we were to obey you now, that if we accepted your amendments, the country would be in the same trouble, because they can't think about anything other than handing out suddenly; what happens next, you don't care. After them, the flood! As a result, the country was in a situation in 2007-2008 that almost led the Hungarian economy towards Greece. Compared to this, this budget is now an opportunity to further develop support for families, to further develop family tax incentives, to reduce personal income tax, to increase transport subsidies, to increase investment in the economic field in general, which, I add, create jobs and, on the other hand, to create the best social policy. Don't start explaining to me that the best social policy is to distribute everything. Of course, it's also necessary. [[Márta Demeter: I need a real job!]] But if the economy is destroyed, as you have done, the result is many, many thousands of people, many, many tens or hundreds of thousands of people who have lived in an extremely difficult situation as a result of your bad economic policy. And if we just look at the social area, say, in the next budget, it would be good to give more, honourable Members and gentlemen and everyone, it would be nice to give more. [[Márta Demeter: So?!]] I'd love to give you more for the extra, but at least we'll give you more. You're reduced, you've taken 13 months' wages, you've taken 13 months' pensions. [[Márta Demeter: 50 percent wage increase!]] The real value of pensions has fallen under your socialist government, while we have been growing for three or four years. I would like to give you more money, of course, for the free meal, but I have just replied to Congressman Teleki: we have reached HUF 70 billion. We've taken over the budget number for free meals at 28 billion. What I would also like to point out is that it is equally important for us to have the ethnic and religious communities that live among us in this country. We have multiplied their support in all areas. For example, in two years, nationality support has doubled. The support given to churches, not only to life of faith, but also to carry out their public tasks in social, child protection and many other areas, serves both to improve the country and to raise the needy, the fallen and the poor. And you can't argue with that. I mean, they're slamming around here with all kinds of stuff, throwing in all kinds of stuff, raising the I don't know what, or lowering the VAT to a level that everyone knows is unrealistic to ask, say, an economic expert in your environment, to say it's unrealistic. They're taking steps that are just pathetic and ridiculous. I think you should listen to what the Secretary of State Répássy just said: a little slower. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-29-140	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I respectfully ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak out against the time limits available. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State László Tasó asked for the floor, and since I received it at this moment, and my colleagues have indicated - please stop the clock - that Mr Péter Harrach has just sent a letter asking us to give the remaining time to the Fidesz Group, I would like the original nearly 2 minutes, 1 minute 23 seconds to be credited to Fidesz. [[Dr. László György Lukács: By text or what?]] I now give the floor to Secretary of State László Tasó.
u2015-05-29-141	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Presents, I just wanted to apologize for not expressing myself correctly. So Mrs. Bango must have been mistaken or misled just now - that's the exact term. [[Dr. László György Lukács: It doesn't matter now. Interview from the lines of the MSZP: It's already in the register!]] But everything else I've told you, I'll definitely do it. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-29-142	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As I do not see any other speakers on the monitor, I have no information that anyone would like to speak yet, the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Péter Benő Banai, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Secretary of State, you have a 30-minute window.
u2015-05-29-143	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Today and in the last few days there have been a lot of statements, and I think that some of them are based on a misunderstanding or a specific perception of the processes. Let me quote one or two statements made today. Economic policy, an unlivable country, increased competitive disadvantage, the government only made things worse - and similar statements and sentences were made. I can honestly say that I, who do business in the economy, look at these sentences astoundingly, because all the statistics available prove exactly the opposite. So when we talk about the failure of the government's economic policy in the 2016 budget debate, or someone is talking about it, it's like we're ignoring the fact that the country broke out of the overdeficit procedure after nine years, that since 2011 the only EU country has been reducing its public debt year by year, so that the number of employees now exceeds the level of the first quarter of 2010 by more than 400 thousand, what position our current account is in - and I can list more macroeconomic figures. [[18.30]] I think these figures do prove the success of the government's economic policy so far. On this economic policy, the government intends to go further when it submits the 2016 budget bill to Parliament. The question is why we deal with the past in 2016, next year. After five years of government, why are we talking about the past? Well, because there are some voices to wipe out the past. [[Miklós Soltész: Komcsi talk.]] Unfortunately, I can't do that. Yeah, some people said they were singing to wipe out the past. Let's look at next year's budget bill. Unfortunately, debt-related expenditures are also above HUF 1000 billion after significant interest rate cuts, even after returns reductions, because we, all of us, have to pay the government debt that has increased to over 80% of GDP in the years 2010. Unfortunately, these frameworks determine the scope of the government. In addition to the general macroeconomic figures, I must once again strongly deny that this economic policy does not focus on people, not on families. I think those who have to pay 1 percentage point less personal income tax next year do feel the impact. Families, whether they have 1-2 or 3 children who pay much less taxes, should feel the impact of this economic policy. Those who pay the bills and see that the amount of the bill has been reduced as a result of the reduction of the rent must feel the impact of economic policy. The more than 400 thousand people who now have a job, but not five years ago, must feel the impact of economic policy. These are the facts, I think, which cannot be passed. And I repeat, you know this economic policy as well as I do how many times it's been attacked because it's focused on people. He made a wage increase when many of Europe's countries did exactly the opposite. I think that every time we talk about it, no matter how many numbers we look at or talk to people, it is possible to confirm that this economic policy, which focuses on people, is a success, and that is what is going on in the 2016 plan. As regards some of the proposals made in the debate, I would like to join Mr Soltés, State Secretary, in saying that, yes, it would be good to provide more resources in a number of areas. It would be good to pay even less tax on work activities. At the same time, I think that responsible budgetary management does not look at momentary aspects, which goes beyond how the popularity of a group can be gained. A responsible government policy in a country and, yes, this government must think in a nation. We have quantified the proposals made by the Hungarian Socialist Party and the other factions. There were proposals that I think were responsible, because they were not only about extra expenditure or tax reductions, but also about compensation for them. Unfortunately, not all suggestions were like that. One opposition group's proposal, the Socialist Party's proposal, would result in a loss of balance over HUF 2000 billion. Well, we've seen the results. There was a time when irresponsible, momentary measures were taken, and the country was paying the price, all of them. And we are taking the consequences with us. I think that a budget has been built that is responsible for taking steps towards additional expenditure or revenue cuts. We cannot go back to the way in which public debt increases, when the deficit goes above 3 percent, because it will have to be paid by future generations. And when we are responsible for our children, we also need to keep that in mind. At a time when we talk about whether we can use EU development resources or not, we must also take this into account. It is not possible to continue irresponsible public finances again. I don't think there's a perfect budget. Everything can be a little improved. There will certainly be proposals to amend the budget bill before us, which is before the Honourable Parliament. But I also think that this economic policy, which is successful after 2010, on which the budget bill for next year is built, is also looking at the interests of families and people living from work in the next period, and it will allow families and workers to live better in 2016 and the coverage of everything will be realisticly available. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-29-144	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I will inform you all that next week the committees will discuss the amendments tabled. We now have a general debate on the bill to amend certain transport-related laws until closure. The submission is T/4888. On the parliamentary IT network, it is available to all of them. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State László Tasó, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-05-29-145	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I'm not gonna be on the line for 30 minutes. I'm sure more people would like to, but allow me to briefly explain the Minister's exposé. The main objective of the bill is to clarify the legislation on toll payment without any substantial change in the system introduced at the beginning of the year and, in particular, to present and indicate the organisation designated to carry out shipping projects with development aid. The bill contains amendments to four laws. By amending the Road Transport Act, it becomes clear that vehicles with a foreign registration number rented or leased from the fleet operator under registration tax will be entitled to drive by domestic individuals without any time limit. The amending provisions also contain technical specifications. However, the amendment of the Road Transport Register Act contains only technical specifications. The amendment to the Water Transport Act marks the National Infrastructure Developer Private Limited Company as a development contributor for the implementation of shipping projects. Following the amendment, NIF Zrt. It will be responsible for, inter alia, the development of the Danube waterways, national public ports, the preparation of the development of the shipping road deployment system and the implementation of all construction work. In addition, NIF Zrt. is also responsible for the development of floating facilities and the acquisition of equipment. You'll have to do it. Its involvement will guarantee that our shipping projects can be implemented quickly and effectively. The Act on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2015 laid down general rules on the system of penalties for the unified e-vignette and e-toll system at the end of last year. This amendment sets the date of the harmonisation of the sanctioning system on 1 January 2016, without prejudice to the framework, in favour of road users. In the vignette toll system, in the case of unauthorised use of roads, the additional fee currently charged is replaced by the fine already applied to the e-toll. During the introduction of the fine system, the government's aim is to find a solution that treats minor errors fairly while at the same time imposing strict sanctions against intentional delays. It should be stressed in particular that the effectiveness of the collection of fines should be ensured in the same way as for domestic and foreign users. Dear Parliament, With all due respect, I would like to ask you to support our proposal. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-05-29-146	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The speeches will now be followed by the speeches of the Members, the first of which will be the speeches of the keynote speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Pál Völner. I give you the floor. Here you go. The time frame is 15 minutes.
u2015-05-29-147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As the Secretary of State said, the proposal to amend certain traffic-related laws, inter alia, amends the road transport law, settles the domestic use of vehicles with the foreign registration number of motor fleet operators, thus removing the 30-day limit so far when the fleet operator has paid the registration tax. It will be possible for tenants to use it without a time limit if the registration tax has actually been paid. [[18.40]] The same part of the proposal, which designates NIF Zrt. as a developer acting on behalf of and for the benefit of the State, constitutes a right for the establishment of State-owned waterways, facilities on the beach, public ports, national public ports and related properties, as well as floating facilities. This is necessary to facilitate the development of these facilities from EU sources. The amendment of the Act on the foundation of Hungary's central budget for 2015 sets the date for the introduction of the fine system already applied in the e-toll system in the e-toll system on 1 January 2016. Since the transformation of the toll system in early 2015, the operation of the system has been continuously monitored by the legislator, and during the consultation on the introduction of fines, it has been noted that e-vignette road users... - minor errors should also be treated fairly in the unified penalty system, while the effectiveness of the collection of fines in particular for unauthorised road users with foreign registrations should not be left out of the efficiency of charging. At present, in the case of unauthorised use of goods vehicles with a total mass exceeding 3,5 tonnes, the penalty is an objective administrative penalty, while in the case of a sticker system an additional charge is to be paid. We consider it appropriate to analyse the efficiency of collection of both systems and to choose, on the basis of these experiences, a solution that is capable of dealing with unauthorised users fairly but with a high degree of efficiency. The introduction of the fine system in a modified period ensures that it is possible to do so. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-29-148	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Árpád Velez. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-05-29-149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill we're about to discuss is full of shady rules. The first is the re-regulation of the domestic use of vehicles with foreign registration plates. If the assumption is correct, the person who led it will be able to drive it without a time limit after a registration tax has been paid for a car with a foreign registration number, said the Secretary of State. Thus, the central revenues are, in our understanding, increasing, and car tax payments are the revenue of the municipalities. They will decrease in the future. If this is the case, the municipalities may lose new revenues. It is also very interesting to read the bill that in the future you consider National Infrastructure Developer Zrt. as acting on behalf of and for the benefit of the state, and its activities constitute an important activity of public interest and public interest. In this context, you are now targeting water transport, ports. From the adoption of the law, the State may, for example, acquire local or private ports at any time, by reference to an important public interest. It's a bit of a Fidesz port fetish, in my opinion. Ladies and gentlemen, We do not consider the draft law acceptable in its present form, we see too many elements in it that may be capable of rewriting the current ownership by the State, and we are not convinced that the new rules on the payment of registration tax would favour the municipalities, and therefore we do not support this bill. Thank you.
u2015-05-29-150	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr József Attila Móring, notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2015-05-29-151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well, you can read interesting things from such a short law, even something that is not in it. [[Intercom from the benches of the MSZP.]] I'd like to talk about what's inside. In short, the proposal to amend the road transport legislation would amend or target four laws. I'd like to say a sentence about two of them, quite briefly. By amending the Road Transport Act, as has been said, it will be possible for the motor fleet operator's foreign registration number to be used without a time limit by the domestic tenant if the registration tax on the vehicle has been paid in advance and the additional amendments contained in the bill contain technical clarifications primarily. The amendment to the Act on the basis of the 2015 central budget concerns the introduction of a system of fines already applied in the e-toll system in the e-vignette toll system. During the consultations on the introduction of fines, it was considered that the minor errors of e-vignette road users in the merging penalty system could also be treated fairly, while the effectiveness of the collection of fines, in particular with regard to unauthorised road users with foreign registrations, should not fall short of the effectiveness of the levying of surcharges. In the light of what the rapporteur has said and these reasons, I would ask you to accept the position of KDNP that we support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-29-152	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Ander Balázs. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-05-29-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The first part of the proposal includes technical amendments to ensure clear regulation of the public costs of foreign motor fleet operators in relation to car rentals in Hungary, payment of registration tax and use of the foreign registration number beyond 30 days. This, as a technically necessary and justified amendment, is clearly eligible, and typical of Jobbik's constructivity, we will not be looking for knots on the kaka. The substance of the bill amends the Water Transport Act, and NIF Zrt., the National Infrastructure Developer Zrt., amends the Water Transport Act. provides for the involvement of a development contributor in infrastructure improvements affecting water transport. In any case, we regret that this proposal will be presented to the Parliament only now, after so many years. It is a good indicator of the role played by water transport, primarily water freight, in terms of the extent to which our country is unable to take advantage of its potential, its potential for environmental and accident protection from road transport. It is good to know that our country's geographical position does not only make it a node for rail Corridors, as there are 1,400 kilometres of inland waterways within Europe, and the centre of the most important transcontinental waterway, the Danube river from Rotterdam in the North Sea to the Sulina in the Black Sea, is right on Dunaalmás. We could also see it as a very cheaply sustainable and very, very many lanes, actually free of charge for the motorway we have, where the unit transport costs are only one-eighth of road transport, so it is very cheap. The tariffs applied here are the lowest among the sub-sectors involved in the division of labour in transport, and the external costs for inland waterway transport represent only one-eighth of the values measured by the railway and one-seventh of the road-negative externalities. This should be a priority in our energy-intensive, energy-import-dependent age and situation. And yet, despite all these advantages, only 4 percent of domestic traffic of 50 billion tonnes per kilometre per year is complicated by inland waterway transport. [[18.50]] It would therefore be important to develop ports, maintain them and boost inland waterway transport. Besides, it is essential for transport policy to increase the share of energy- and environmental-friendly modes of transport in the division of labour in transport. We understand that there is a huge gap between development tasks and the resources available, but such investments - and obviously, here too, it must also be said - would be considered a very important step to improve Hungary's competitiveness by excluding those who put so-called 20 percent of corruption money into certain parties. With the development of transport intermodalities, businesses would also be more competitive and territorial and economic cohesion in Hungary would increase. I live in Barcs, a small town on the Drava coast, and I can see that living there, I can see that we are not taking advantage of the water's potential. I would particularly like to consider the implementation of such projects, which could create intermodal logistics nodes, which would certainly attract job-creating investments, which small and miserable towns like Barcs, would need very much. So, in our opinion, this proposal is a little late, but it is better late than never. The involvement of the NIF as a development contributor in future and hopeful developments could pave the way for the use of EU funds to break the ice before making better use of our main shipping route. These EU funds would be needed only because, if we look at the planned figures of the budget for next year, we will find that, in addition to the development of the GyőråGönyü port, for which 200 million forints are foreseen, we will not actually encounter another such investment. Just to show the magnitude of this, it is good to know that I am taking the side road between Gárdony and Zichyújfalu, the side road 6212. j., which doesn't mean much to an ordinary person, but if I say that this is the side road that leads to the pension of our wreathed poet, Mr. L. Simon, then it makes sense, well, they spend 795 million forints on this trip. In view of this, it should be said that this scale of port development and the allocated national resources would require infinitely little, much larger amounts. The proposal can therefore be supported in full, but at the same time allow for a different opinion from 78/A. § 11 of the Act. This section states that NIF Zrt. so to speak, in the interest of the local government, when the land owned by the local government is completed, the development will be transferred to the property of the local government. Water transport is clearly an international activity and a national issue with regard to freight transport. If, for example, water transport is used somewhere in passenger transport, for the purpose of suburban community transport, as such plans are being prepared, then ownership of ports and their facilities may not be the best place for municipalities that have little access to mandatory tasks, we can say that they are starved, bled out. In this case, the facilities would therefore be better placed than the State which carried out the investment and ordered the local transport service in the Community, or, according to the provision of the State, the ship company which provides the ordered passenger transport service would, at the very least, separate the operation of the infrastructure in its books from the operation of the infrastructure in accordance with EU regulations. That would be the Jobbik's comment on this bill. Thank you very much for the attention of my fellow Members. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-29-154	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will now ask Mr László Tasó, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. Yes, he does. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-05-29-155	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Presents, I would just like to respond briefly to what has been said. First of all, I would like to thank the Fidesz and KDNP factions and Jobbik for their support. I would like to respond to Mr Velez that I did not understand why he considered port improvements to be sick. It was kind of weird, or at least that's how I understood it, but that's probably not what he was trying to say. I am very confident that you do not think that it is sick, for example, that the development of the port of Győr-Gönyü or the development of the port of Baja is sick. [[Balázs Ander: Or the Barcsi.]] I'm sure that's not what he thought. I'm sure you'll be briefing me on this during the break if you feel like it. What is very important is that the National Infrastructure Developer Private Company is ours, it belongs to the Hungarian State, it is 100% owned, it is the investment company of the Hungarian State. Otherwise, you can only get three projects now, and you will carry out three projects, but I think you are in the best hands, especially when one or two comments by my fellow Member Ander Balázs did not go completely past my ears. I think that such an investment is also in the hands of the state in a very good place. I think that if we look at the numbers one more time, we might be able to clarify that there is a HUF 7 billion development in Győr, which means there is a little more. It may not be visible from the budget now, but this may be partly from Közop source and IKOP source, otherwise. What is important is that the transfer of freight to our waterways is a truly serious effort by the Hungarian government, the government of Hungary. We are confident that we will be able to travel from a rate of around 5 per cent to a range of 6 to 7 per cent. Basically, a larger proportion cannot be imagined at the moment, also because it is extremely costly to invest in all water transport projects, but I think that in the coming years we will be able to take action with the help of European Union funds and domestic added resources to ensure shipability, and also to succeed in implementing all our shipping projects and water projects. What is important: I asked for help because I was not sure that the registration tax would exempt motor vehicles from the local tax. Apparently not, not according to the momentary view. So it's likely that this wasn't well mapped at the time. Nevertheless, I would like to thank you with all due respect for the support and, overall, for the acceptance of the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-05-29-156	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments could be tabled by 16:00 today. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time to speak after the agenda. Member Mrs Márta Demeter, from the MSZP Group, with the title "Heroes' Day," applied for a post-meeting speech. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-05-29-157	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Two days later, on the last Sunday of May, at the Memorial of Hungarian heroes, we honor those who fought for the independence and freedom of Hungary in the most difficult moments in Hungary's history. I think it is appropriate to remember not only with wreaths in graveyards and war memorials, but also here in Parliament. Hungarian history is a long line of struggles. Thanks to these great figures and anonymous heroes recorded in history books, Hungary now exists as an independent state, an equal member of the community of nations in the middle of Europe. This is a huge achievement in the light of the stormy history of the last thousand years, so let us not only remember our heroes with grace but also with pride. [[19.00]] We often tend to view our own history as a long series of failures and defeats. Don't do that. Because bright victories are also part of our history, for example, the victories of Nándorfehérvár, Pákozd, Isaszeg are the marked moments of Hungarian military history. And in many cases history has shown that there was meaning in the struggle, in the sacrifice of heroes. After all, despite the attempt by the German Emperor to make the born Hungarian state a vassal, he failed. The Mongols destroyed the country to the ground, but it recovered. Even though the Ottoman Empire wanted to take over our country, after centuries of fighting, it failed badly. Even though the 1848-49 freedom fight failed, it opened the way for the birth of modern, civilized Hungary. Even though the revolution of 56 was destroyed, its ideals and goals were achieved with the regime change in 1989. Remember and be proud of our heroes. Let us not forget that in many cases these struggles were not just for the survival of Hungarians and Hungarians, but for individual freedoms and democracy. This was the case especially during the revolutions of 1848 and 1956. It is our duty to protect these values so that we can leave a free, growing country to our children. We must have no doubt that this is the 21st. It's still a huge challenge in the century. After all, we must be aware that we live in a dangerous world. Despite economic problems and social tensions, the European Union and our country are still an island of stability. However, wherever we look recently, the security environment in our wider region has also changed dramatically. The serious conflict affecting Ukraine, the rise of the Islamic State, the collapse of Syria and Libya into total chaos are merely the most spectacular signs of an increasingly deteriorating security situation. As a result of globalisation, there have been a series of new threats that are difficult to handle with traditional instruments, which could pose a serious threat to Europe and our country. Due to the multifaceted dependency between countries, armed conflicts in our wider geographical region, but also in remote parts of the world, can affect our lives. In our world which is becoming more dangerous, it is of particular value that Hungary is now one of the largest political and economic communities in the world, a recognised member of the world's most powerful military organization, NATO. Today, Hungary can enjoy this stability and security because, after the change of regime, the Hungarian governments have successfully implemented Euroatlantic integration in support of the vast majority of society. However, the federal system is only as strong as its members are. For the safety of Hungary's citizens, XXI is essential. A modern force capable of responding to the threats of the century. This requires the appreciation of not only the heroes of the past, but also the soldiers of the Hungarian Army currently serving. After all, it is these men and women who helped, when tens of thousands were trapped in the snow, who, along with thousands of law enforcement forces, side by side with thousands of volunteers, protected the Danube settlements from a record-sized flood wave and those who, in cooperation with soldiers from other nations, are now serving in the world's dangerous crisis zones to maintain peace and security. They are responsible for the fact that, despite the deteriorating conditions, the Hungarian Defence Office has maintained its functionality. Therefore, it is justified that the settlement of the soldiers' salaries is indeed launched, and the stuck modernisation of the Hungarian Defence Office is a powerful XXI. Move towards the military force of the century. Let us not forget that Hungary's freedom and independence have been achieved by the heroes of the past centuries, which we share today's responsibility to preserve and guarantee the conditions for a peaceful and happy life for future generations. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-29-158	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speech after the agenda. I thank my fellow Members for their work. Thank you for keeping the record, thank you for your assistance to the staff of the Parliamentary Office. The Parliament will resume its meeting tomorrow, Saturday, at 8 a.m. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 7:30 p.m.]]
