u2015-09-03-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down. The majority of the guests in the gallery and some members of the Jobbik faction wear a white T-shirt with the inscription at the front of it, Ma Martonfa, tomorrow the whole country, on the back.]] Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The first day of the special meeting of the Parliament in autumn is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, you will be notaries Lajos Szűcs and Nándor Gúr. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. I am fulfilling my sad duty to announce that three of our former fellow Members died during the summer. From 1994 until 1998 László Várnai was a parliamentary representative of Kiskunhalas and its region in the colours of MSZP. He was a member of the Standing Committee on the Constitution and Justice of the Parliament. From 1998 to 2002 he was deputy mayor of Kiskunhalas and mayor of Kiskunhalas between 2002 and 2010. László Varnai died in the 64th year of his life on July 24. Sándor Nagy has been a member of Parliament since 1994 as a Member of the MSZP Parliament for three cycles. He was Chairman of the Court of Auditors Committee, member of the Labour and Budget Committee. Between 2001 and 2002, he was the head of the Parliamentary Group of the MSZP. Between 2002 and 2006 he worked as political secretary of state for the Prime Minister's Office. Alexander the Great died on August 24 in the 69th year of his life. Győző Soós was first admitted to the Parliament in 1994 as a representative of the Sátoraljaújhely-based single mandate constituency, and in 1998 and 2002 he obtained his mandate from the list of MSZP Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county. Between 1994 and 2006 he worked on the Parliament's budget and financial committee, of which he was Vice-President between 1994 and 1998. He was also a member of the Rules of Procedure and the Court of Auditors Committee. Winner Soós died in the 67th year of his life on August 26th. I ask you to remember them with a silent standing and to pay tribute to their memory. [[The people in this room stand up.]] May they rest in peace. Thank you. Dear Parliament, Today, on behalf of the Government, Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office has applied for a speech. The Minister has the opportunity in five minutes, to which the factions can respond in two or two minutes. I give you the floor. Here you go, Minister.
u2015-09-03-1	Thank you very much. Honourable Parliament! Today, on behalf of the government, I asked to speak to the Parliament in part and to inform the Parliament, on behalf of the Government of Hungary, of the extraordinary situation that has arisen, which presents fantastic and special challenges for Hungary, as regards the immigration, migration crisis and as a crisis for Europe. First of all, I believe that all my fellow Members in Parliament are aware of the crisis in which dozens of countries have been sent over the last five years and that millions of people have been on the road. We agree that it would not be the symptom of the disease, but the disease itself, that we would be ideal to treat, and that we all participate as parliamentary parties, parliamentary representatives or governments in the treatment programmes of these crisis blokes, so that people do not have to leave their country, because that would be the ideal solution. However, while these people are on the road, it is our duty to protect the country partly from the Constitution, to protect the border of the country and, in part, to protect the borders of Europe under the Schengen Convention. First of all, I would like to ask everyone on their way to Hungary, anyone who approaches the border as an illegal immigrant, an economic immigrant, an immigrant living or a political refugee, to respect the borders of Hungary and the European Union, to respect the laws of Hungary and the European Union, and to enter the country only at the designated border crossing points, in accordance with the laws of Hungary and the European Union. So we ask for cooperation from all the millions, from all the hundreds of thousands who are on their way to Hungary. I would like to inform you that until 6 July, until our last meeting, the number of people entering Hungary illegally was 73 thousand, and between 6 July and 3 September this number reached 160 thousand for the year as a whole, so it increased more than double in two months. The Hungarian Parliament - from which we ask it to address this issue, to adopt a parliamentary decision, to express its position - must count on the executive power, the government, to expect that Europe and the country are under threat from a wave of migrations, comparable to the southern Slavic crisis. I would like to tell you that today we are asking the Parliament to help the government by amending its laws and authorising the protection of the southern border of the country. That's gonna mean three things. First of all, it will mean a physical protection that we have implemented and will implement through a safety barrier. It will report a lively police protection that will be implemented by deploying and strengthening the Hungarian police. And we ask you to provide legal protection, to assist in the development of legal protection by amending the law, by tightening the criminal code. Only this firm, consistent action can help these people not to enter the country illegally, but to be controlled, regulated and organised in accordance with the laws of the European Union and Hungary's expectations. If this is not the case, cases such as Keleti Railway Station can occur anywhere in the country and at any time, all that is needed is an irresponsible German government statement when Germany invites all refugees to Europe's table. As a result of this statement, 3,500 people gathered in one night at the Eastern Station, against whom the police refused to use violence, making the right decision, even though they refused to cooperate in any way. In the increasingly aggressive circumstances, the police decided that it was not the use of violence but the protection of the country, and on the other hand, the MÁV decided to suspend, terminate, temporarily suspend flights that would take you from the Eastern Railway Station to the West, given that it could not guarantee the safety of transport. If we do not build the fence, if there is no living protection, if there is no legal protection, they can come into the country, they can camp anywhere, they can gather anywhere, and they can come up with claims wherever, of course, there are many legitimate demands, but they can only be met in compliance with the rules of the European Union. Even though we have asked the Embassy of the Federal Republic of Germany in Budapest for help, if they are the invitations, they should also be hosts, inform the people gathered at the Keleti Railway Station, they refused to do so, so the Hungarian Government has the responsibility and responsibility to defend the borders of Hungary and Europe in compliance with the Schengen Convention. In this we ask for the help of the National Assembly, thanking all civilians, all state authorities, all churches, for the help they have provided as a moral duty to those who reside in Hungary, as the government does in all refugee camps, because we ask nothing more than for immigrants to register and go to refugee camps in Debrecen or elsewhere in the country. To do this, I ask for your understanding and support. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-03-2	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, It is now possible to respond in a two-minute comment from the factions. I'm asking you, on behalf of the factions, who would like to take this opportunity. I'll need a push button for your check-in. First, on behalf of the KDNP, Congressman Imre Vejkey asks for the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-03-3	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, thank you, Minister, for your substantial speech on such a major issue of public interest as asylum. The position of the KDNP is that without the legislative proposals to be negotiated today, Hungary and the European Union would be defenceless, and anyone on the green border would go in and out without any control and documents, which is obvious that it would be completely unacceptable and intolerable. [[13.20]] Therefore, Christian democrats regard stopping illegal migration and strengthening borders as one of today's most important tasks. We must stop illegal immigrants at borders, and our country's Fundamental Law, as well as the Schengen Convention, obliges us to do so by our obligation to protect the Schengen border. Those who have really fled can legally enter our country, we do not have to start such a rush on the green border, we do not have to tear up the papers; we have everything in order, we have to respect that, and we must respect that against all those who wish to enter Hungary. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-03-4	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr András Schiffer of the LMP Group has applied for a speech. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2015-09-03-5	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, I must begin by joining you, and I would also like to express my thanks to our fellow countrymen who are voluntarily involved in the treatment of unblessed conditions. And the main reason we need to thank you is because you have managed to stir up a mood where these countrymen are often spit on and called traitors. The only thing a responsible government can't do in a crisis, in the escalation of a global crisis here, is not to arouse anger. You've been doing this for months. You've been campaigning posters for months, rambling around, doing the push, making the mood. Where were the amendments to the criminal law and order that are now being tricked into extraordinary proceedings in the House? What have they been doing for months? Answer that, Minister. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Nothing!]] Dear Parliament, Yeah, 160,000 people came in this year. And, Minister, can you tell me how many out of the 160,000 are left? The fact is that the significant part of this 160 000 and obviously increasing mass wants to continue in Hungary. That is precisely because - you are right, Minister - there are deep reasons and global reasons, which is why Hungary alone will not be able to solve this, and we will be able to resolve this with European and global cooperation. At present, an action plan can be drawn up for the specific situation, but the concrete situation is that these people want to go further. There are two options: either Hungary will let these people go or it will provide these people with a fair, humane supply. And another: if we want to enforce Hungarian interests, then we should not be fooling around, we should not confuse Fidesz's party convention with the Hungarian Parliament and send messages. Yes, Germany has a responsibility, you are right, Minister, but this should be settled diplomatically, and a clear response from the German Chancellor should be obtained by diplomatic means, so that, for example, Germany reverses those who Hungary launches. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] but a parliamentary decision is not the right way to do so. Thank you very much.
u2015-09-03-6	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr Tobias József Group leader. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2015-09-03-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, I appreciate you trying to do an impossible business in this situation, all the more so, because if we read it well at the moment, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán is negotiating in Brussels. This shows that it's all a staged charade, because if they were serious, they'd at least wait for the Prime Minister's results - or we'll negotiate before he goes out, or then we'll have a trial about what kind of solutions they could be. In contrast to what you have just said, I would like to share the position of my fellow opposition Members: if you are someone, you are the one who has not complied with the Schengen agreements. You are the ones who have done nothing in the last eight months but have made poster campaigns, built a fence, conducted a national consultation, and did not adopt any substantive legislation, but I go on: one has not been followed, along which today is the 150,000 refugees you are talking about... How much is in Hungary today, Minister? I'll tell you: 90 percent of them are in Western Europe, Germany, France, Sweden. So what you're talking about today is that today is the crisis, this is the case since January 19th. [[Intercoms from Fidesz and Jobbik.]] Since Lajos Kósa was lucky to tell you what a migrant wave is to be expected. They didn't do anything about this. [[The intervention of Lajos Kósa and György Balla.]] Minister, if you had complied with the rules, there would have been no refugee in Budapest today, because when you entered the border, you should have ensured that you had access to the refugee camps, that you would have had to have been given a very quick deadline for further travel, or that you could not enter the Union, and from now on there is no problem. They just wanted it to be. You played Russian roulette. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: That's right!]] And it didn't work. You at the same time threatened the safety of all Hungarian citizens, and at the same time caused tension between refugees and Hungarian citizens. Thank you very much.
u2015-09-03-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr Gábor Vona Group leader. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2015-09-03-9	Mr President, Dear Minister, Dear Parliament, I would like to start by saying that we must try to put party policy aside in a disaster and try to show some kind of national unity, because only then will we be able to resolve this. As President of Jobbik, leader of Jobbik and leader of the strongest opposition party in Hungary, I wish the government that the Fidesz government will solve this problem, and if we can contribute constructively to this, we will contribute constructively. Whether you reap the fruits of popularity, let's just solve it, so let's find solutions instead of party political battles and debates. The question will probably be what these solutions are. Instead of giving and receiving, I would like the Hungarian public to go; let us see which party has a policy proposal, how we can solve this problem, and who really thinks what the problem is, because it seems that we do not even see the diagnosis in the same way. We believe that there is a disaster, so solutions must be unorthodox solutions - so that the Fidesz Group can understand what this is about. One of the solutions may be that the international obligations to which the Balliberal Small Party insists are constantly, but what history has gone beyond, let us also go beyond. And if the Italians and the Greeks are able to suspend registration, then let us also consider the possibility that Hungary should register at all. If the government can't, doesn't want, doesn't want to get there, then there is another option: then let's close the borders, and let's really not let migrants into Hungary. If this is what we want to do, then the only way we can do that is to bring a living man to the borders by the fence - which is still not built - by the police, either the border guards or the military. That is what the debates should now be about. I trust that we will conduct these debates here today, and I ask the Government, the Minister, the Prime Minister, to hold an ongoing crisis meeting and to involve the opposition parties in this, because believe me, we have something to say, we have an opinion. If Balliberal parties do not want to participate, they do not care about the fate of the Hungarian people. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] then they will not participate, but we would like to be in the centre of events and shape the fate of Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-03-10	From the Fidesz Group, Mr Antal Rogán Group Leader is next. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2015-09-03-11	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that, first of all, we must say here in the Chamber of Parliament that the European Union's failed immigration policy is responsible for the situation that has arisen. [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP, among other things: You are responsible! You! The president's ringing the bell.]] We have to say that irresponsible European politicians and their revelations, who have always said that it is worth coming to Europe with the hope of a better life, or that, leaving all their work behind, they should come calmly, risking their lives, they have committed enormous irrationality, whether they are Brussels Commission leaders, German politicians, French politicians or Hungarian left-wing politicians. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the Hungarian left here from András Schiffer to József Tóbias to Ferenc Gyurcsány in recent months, on the one hand, he constantly said that immigration was a false problem. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You're a liar!]] Honourable Congressman Tobias, [[Agnes Kunhalmi: What did you do for seven months? You didn't do anything!]] You said that even in June, when 73,000 people crossed over [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] Only this year, illegally, Hungary's borders, you have been told to let the immigrants come in, let them in, let them across the country. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Yes, you must let them pass!]] Ladies and gentlemen, This irresponsibleness leads people to die because of such irresponsible statements and irresponsible politics. Let us be honest, fellow Members. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Is Poster Gluing Better?]] This responsibility is yours, and all we have done is to draw everyone's attention to the fact that there are laws to be observed, and these laws are about not entering the country, entering illegally, only through border crossings, and you encouraged these people to do the opposite. [[13.30]] Ladies and gentlemen, Yes, we agree that borders must be protected, and to protect borders we need legislative amendments, which are here before the Parliament. In fact, these should be accepted as a matter of urgency. There will now be a derogation from the house rules: it will be revealed, ladies and gentlemen, who will help the government in supporting the departure from the house rules so that it can begin to protect the borders as quickly as possible. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-03-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Ladies and gentlemen, Before we begin speaking before the agenda on the part of the factions, I regret to say that the rule of the illustration is being violated in this Chamber. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Parliamentary Act 38/A. The request for an illustration must be submitted in advance one hour before the meeting of the House Committee. [[Noise on the opposition side.]] I would ask the congresswoman and gentlemen to continue to ensure the smooth functioning of the Parliament. I would like to inform you that I will inform the House Committee and the Speaker of the House. We now have the speeches before the agenda. I give the floor to Mr András Schiffer, leader of the group of the LMP Group, with the title of the psychic of the crisis. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2015-09-03-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Last week, Gábor Karátson was buried with Kossuth Prize-winning writer, literary translator, polyhistor. He's gone, but his psychic words about the consequences of global imbalances remain here. There is a warning of what awaits us if we place the principle of use above the principle of mercy. He said Gábor Karátson, it is possible to live on the side of the repressive apparatus, the power, the exploiters, but it is not worth it. Man is oppressed, takes nature's side, can use it to help people, and he has a good feeling in his soul. He had two leading stars in his life, 1956 and the Danube. 1956, where he said people wanted to find each other. Saving the Danube, as one eulogy said, has gained metaphysical significance in its life. It has become a symbol of the life struggle in the formulation of András Lányi, which takes place worldwide at the second millennium against the murderous forces of technical civilization that destroys life, in order to protect human living conditions. He chose the motto of the Danube Circle: let all things flow freely, let violence be far from things. When asked what had taken him to one of the system-shifting movements, the Danube Circle, he replied: "The removal of nature. Not only is it Duna's, but also the fact that there's no more cold in the morning, there's no more silence in the morning. There's gonna be a lot of trouble when a mood like this goes away. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. He said that God not only formed man and woman, but also the meadow and grasses, the sky and birds, the mountain and the forest, and wild boars, deer, deer, soil and earthworms, streams and purity. It took him a lot of time to put it together as a kind of harmonisation of laws, we call it evolution. But the attack on evolution has been going on for far too long by those who have not hesitated to break into the meaning of creation for a moment. They turned Earth into a dump, a dump. Gábor Karátson warned us a few years ago: Europe lived for centuries without even realizing what it was doing elsewhere, how contrary to what it was doing to its own spiritual mission. Now he's starting to self-destruct. If not so far, now would be a good time to rebel. This would be the real European revolution against itself, denying the inherent sin of Europeanity. Then he continued elsewhere: this earthly sphere is in terrible danger. Like so - called nature with overpopulation, we too will be eliminated and disproved. Everything runs out to the question that there's a creature that got into this first, and then violently ripped itself out of it, and then, in fact, it hurt itself to death. Here are his words from 2003 on the peace protest against the war in Iraq at that time. He warned us all that at the other end of the Iraq war, the world would continue to increase the prestige of this oil-eating civilization. Oil is their god. Not only did the so-called weak bridge break down under the U.S. giant tank, the Earth itself can no longer tolerate the globalized techno world. He said that globalisation will burst like a balloon. And here are your words about patriotism, your attachment to the Carpathian Basin. He said: "I insist on this country, not just this country, because by my origin I am partly connected to Transylvania and the Highlands. This is my country, this landscape and this language, no matter how you look at it. On the other hand, I feel like a cosmopolitan. I wonder why this is the opposite in these debates, because it is the same, because we are citizens of the cosmos. And one feature of the cosmos is the extraordinary importance of places, which is present in all religions. From the place which has been distributed to me, let alone leave, I have no intention of leaving, for then my relationship with the cosmos will cease. In this sense, Hungarians are a cosmic reality to me. I'm determined here for the same reason I'm a cosmopolitan. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. These words warn Gábor Karátson that, even in the face of global imbalances, we have a debt for future generations, a debt to preserve the natural and cultural heritage of the Carpathian Basin and to think responsibly about global crises. Thank you very much.
u2015-09-03-14	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the Government, Minister Zoltán Balog responds to what has been said. Here you go, Minister.
u2015-09-03-15	Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, This is the good time when we are not competing in bad things here in Parliament, but we can unite in good things, because the person of Gábor Karátson, his life's work is indeed an oeuvre that must also bring honor to the walls of this House, but not only to show respect, but also to strengthen the intention of following somewhere, of preserving the heritage of this oeuvre. So thank you, Mr President, for giving me the opportunity to do so. We said good-bye to an autodidacta polythesis last week, for whom 1956 was a decisive fate, as it was for many in that generation. And the experience of freedom that you experienced at that time has been preserved in the Kádár system all along. It's a free man on the inside. You might also say that people like this are also called seismographs, who can tell us about the quakes that will come into this world in advance. This is how he looked at the past, the present, and the future. He spoke of things that are still incomprehensible to many today, unimaginable even in the future, and he did so with such understanding and curiosity that it could be a warning to politics and public life at all times. He signaled, indeed, from the Danube, and then when he had to, about the Tisza, at all, the whole world, we could say, about the whole created world, and within it he did mention Transylvania's love. He also signaled about the Hungarian world. I wrote here the sentence that the mystery of life should not be touched unholyly by human hands. The environment is more than simply protecting our environment, water quality and air quality are indeed creation, the protection of the created world. We can even learn from Gábor Karátson how to take seriously those who might not be taken seriously, how he took his vocation seriously, how to speak, even if you are disappointed in the persuasive power of words, because he belonged to those intellectuals, scribes, who indicated mild words or even angry words when they could not be heard. We respect the man in public life who is so badly needed over and over in politics, in government, who is worth paying attention to, because without self-interest, he honors us with a true word. Thank you for your clean speech, for the clean man, even for the words you have not received, and we trust that you will come out of respect for farewell to the fact that this political, artistic, human heritage can truly be nurtured, continued and appreciated in a worthy manner. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-03-16	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr József Tóbias, Head of the Group of the MSZP, spoke before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. [[13.40]]
u2015-09-03-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The inhuman, immoral, many of the elements you have presented are fundamental rights, a set of laws which violate your granite-solid fundamental law and which are strictly contrary to international laws. There is one problem: it does not contain any substantive measures in itself on the refugee issue, in this respect it is similar to the fence erected at our southern borders. I would remind my fellow Members that you have made statements that the existence of the fence, the construction of the fence, will hold back migrants and refugees arriving at our southern borders. Compared to this, the number of them growing during the construction of the fence. So it does not help either to alleviate the problem or to deal with the problem, but they managed to achieve that, while Hungary gained the world's recognition in 1989 by breaking down the Iron Curtain, today Hungary has become the master of barbed wire builders in the international space. Of course, not us Hungarians, but you, but unfortunately from afar, this nuance disappears, and it is important to know that Hungarian people did not want to raise barbed wire against those fleeing from their persecution. , Hungarian people from Kiskunhalas to Szeged to Budapest bring food, toiletries, toys to refugees, interpret them, provide medical help; be grateful and thank you. Appreciate and thank those police officers, those immigration officers you've left to you in the last few months, doing your job for the good of the state without any substantive regulations or tools. Dear Mr. Rogán, If you're so wise now, it's a shame you weren't that wise in June. All the legislative proposals before the House have been laid down from the amendment of the Criminal Code to the expansion of migration agencies, the expansion of the administrative system, the expansion of resources, and you have not supported them solely for party policy purposes, because that is not their real purpose. We've gotten to the point where you've already lost control. Now it's scapegoat training again, and people are waiting for a solution. People want to keep themselves safe, and they want the Schengen border to remain so that they can travel in a free Europe. There's never been such a serious challenge to a government. This government is only playing to increase the already existing crisis in Europe and is playing to introduce an operating order for a dictatorship in Hungary. You do not think that a single Democrat would like to join, except for the unorthodox ideas, which, if I understand it correctly, do not concern the instruments of the rule of law, and non-statutory instruments are not European instruments. Fact and truth, Europe is mistreating the situation. However, if the question is asked by the Commissioner for Human Rights of the European Council, in a precise way, the Dublin system is unfair, imposing additional burdens and disproportionate burdens on our country, the EU Member States, the European Commission, should establish a system in which asylum seekers are fairly distributed among the Member States in order to protect solidarity and human rights. This would provide greater security for refugees while removing the almost unbearable burden from some EU countries. Here we come to an important question, honourable Members. The Hungarians did not produce the refugee issue, and we will not solve it alone. Viktor Orbán should not be fighting, he should be negotiating. Allow me to quit, the news has just come out that the Prime Minister no longer sees the situation as a European crisis, but as Germany's problem. What kind of help are you going to ask for? ! Well, whoever goes to ask for help is looking for partnership, cooperation, so that international organisations can take part in this work, and not to create another conflict in front of those living in Hungary, so that they can protect it. Every man knows exactly two things you don't understand. No one would like to have such a wave of migrations in their country, but no one, my fellow Members, would like us to treat them in an inhumane way as you do. We must remain European and sober in this situation. If anyone needs to go back to the common agreements, they are you, fellow Members. Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your patience.
u2015-09-03-18	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the Government, Mr János Lázár, Minister for the Prime Minister's Office, responds. Here you go, Minister.
u2015-09-03-19	Thank you very much. Your Honour, my fellow Member. I see that summer has not brought the various political parties closer to the ideal that when an opposition Member stands up - I say in advance, my party has something to learn - he will tell us, in addition to criticism, what is the solution. [[Zoltán Grimlock: It's loaded! Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: It's in front of the House!]] I might even be able to share your precious opinion on a number of issues, but I don't see any solution, because you say two things at once. One is - literally - that no one would want to have such a migration in their country. Tell me, Congressman, what is the remedy against this kind of migration, I suppose, in Hungary? Put down in writing what is medicine against migration, and the government is ready to consider it. In contrast to migration, we believe - and also under the Schengen system - that there is only one solution, and this is regulated, controlled, controlled entry into the European Union and at the borders of the country. We would like nothing more to do with the safety barrier, the physical lock, the lively lock and legal protection than to persuade immigrants who do not want to cooperate with us to go to the points of entry. I share, Mr President, that humanity is the other side of this coin, and it is very important that Hungarian society's attitude towards this issue is the result of its own traditions and moral situation. But can we expect, with a good intention and a fair intention, from arriving at our borders, that you may visit the Immigration Office at the border crossing point? Can Hungary expect those at Keleti Railway Station to please visit the Immigration Office with the help of the police and provide them with care in refugee camps? Are you suggesting that if someone comes to Hungary, camps somewhere, hundreds or thousands of people, we should set up a refugee camp there? Is that what you're saying? That if they camp here, in front of Parliament, or in front of your home, those who come to this country, then we must set up a refugee camp? We do nothing else, Congressman, in the voice of respect we ask these people to abide by the laws of our country. The thing is, Congressman, is that partly because of the confused communication of the German Government, partly because a lot of people are calling them to Europe and not speaking to them clearly, these people believe that they can enter Europe without any control or control. These people, who stand at the East Side, are severely misled. They don't dare tell them that they're going to choose between them, that there will be people they'll send back. What did the Spanish Prime Minister say when he left Merkel? There are two types of refugees: refugees and political refugees. We're not going to take in living immigrants. 160,000 people came to Hungary until the end of August, 50,000 of them declared themselves Syrians. We don't know if they're Syrians. That's how many people have said they're Syrians. Assuming that the other hundreds of thousands of people who might be sent back by Germany or the Western European countries in a month, six months from now or a year from now, when their applications are evaluated, since in Germany they will be judged with a one-year delay, it turns out that they will be sent back, where will they be sent back to, Congressman? Here, to Hungary! Is this country prepared to take in 100,000 people with nowhere else to go and no place else to go? Mr. Congressman, the reason we need regulated and controlled entry is that the government cannot allow it, nor can Parliament, because if people are deported here - Germany has already announced that it wants to send them back here - we must decide to try to send these people back to the safe country where they joined the EU, Greece, or the safe country that is a candidate for EU membership, Serbia, or these people will be waiting for us to welcome them to Hungary? Is that your political position? Because then let's talk about this, that you have a policy of accepting everyone who is rejected in this country. [[13.50]] Departure of Schengen: Congressman Vona said something interesting, and from the words of my fellow Member leader Tobias, an eclectic system is being developed, but here we should be clear about the attitude towards Schengen. Have you, fellow Members, heard what the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Austria has said? He called on Hungary to comply with the Schengen Convention. What does that mean? If we cannot keep Schengen, we will remain outside Schengen, we will be expelled from Schengen [[József Tobias: That's what we've been saying for six months, and you're not doing anything! Zoltán Grimlock: But you need a fence!]] People from Szombathely, Sopron, will stand at the border for several hours. If we do not defend Schengen, we will not be protected by anyone, and Schengen will be enforced against us. To do this, I ask for your consideration, your composure and your sobriety, not arguing our duty of humanity. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-09-03-20	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Mr Péter Harrach, Head of the Group of the KDNP, with the title of the challenge of the century, has applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2015-09-03-21	Mr President, Dear House, I, too, have to address the challenge of the century, perhaps mentioning some of the points that draw attention to the reasons. The overwhelming majority of Hungarian people want Parliament to handle this emergency quickly and effectively. Of course, when we look for the reasons, we also have medium-term and long-term tasks, which we Hungarians can only solve together with other Member States and nations of European culture, but perhaps first let me analyse this situation with a few thoughts. A crowd has appeared at our borders that is unable to integrate, and lacks the intention of integration; this is the root of the problem. [[A statement from the ruling parties: That's right!]] The other: of course, let's look at the images that the media has put before us, because the question does not arise as being human or self-defense, but as being human and self-defense, because there is the image of the child drowned in the water, and next to it is the image of the terrorist act committed by those living today in Western European countries, not in integrated circumstances, but in a monocultural bloc. So it's humanity and self-defense. Of course, there is a question of who could solve this serious problem. Obviously, it has been said several times today, and European leaders are able to do so. But what's the problem with them? I do not share the opinion of those who think of consciousness, I say that this is helpless, and that helplessness comes from their attitude, or their idealism. The belief in a multicultural society, the liberal dogma they claim, it's long gone. With regard to this type of immigrant crowd, it is pointless to mention this because it can be a multicultural society among the nations that have lived in Europe for centuries, but it cannot build a society that is an integrated society with an alien culture, a completely different and intolerant world to all others. Allow me to say something about two levels of this, if I have already referred to the reasons. In the countries of origin - Iraq, Syria - where today there are conditions from which people are fleeing, we may need to see if there are Western countries involved in this, but these countries should be forced to create human conditions by means of global cooperation. Therefore, peace must be established in the issuing countries. The other solution to this is that in neighbouring countries, who are able to accept refugees from the same culture, as they are accepted, because there are already millions of refugees there, they must give the help they can do this task, because the root of the problem is that there is such a difference between the two cultures that Europe itself cannot perform this task. Let us also mention in a few sentences what, much deeper reasons are involved, which are more difficult to influence, but there is no intention of influence. Think of the demographic tension in Europe: vacuum and overpressure in the Middle East, North Africa and Central Africa, and these two want to be balanced; something needs to be done about it. Either climate change, the water problem in Africa, or the difference between rich countries and poor countries, something must be done about it. This is not the task of Hungary, it is the task of international cooperation. Hungary and its government, we hope, will do everything in their power to address this issue. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-09-03-22	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the Government, Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, responds. Here you go, Minister.
u2015-09-03-23	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, On several occasions, it arises in the House of the country, here in the House of Representatives, what Viktor Orbán or his government represents in Brussels, what sort of solutions we are making in European debates, which have soared significantly on this issue in the last six months. Mr. Harrach has wisely and wisely warned us that we are in symptom management and that we have not solved the basic treatment of the disease in any way, since five years ago, since the conflict in Syria, there have been dozens of countries in which the western community of the world is unable to solve problems and not to decrease, but the number of people - as the UN has shown, 60 million people are on the run - who have to leave their country or leave their country in the hope of a better life. I think it is wise to do so when we do not break a wand over those who, for some reason, feel that their situation is hopeless and must leave their country, even if it is not political, racial, religious, belief or identity that forces them to do so. So I think that those who start out in the hope of a better life deserve understanding, and therefore I think it is very important that, in order to protect the borders of the European Union, the conditions for organised, orderly inclusion should also be created, in addition to the need to remedy the problem at the root. So the first task that Mr. Group leader has mentioned is that the Hungarian Government should participate in any international, European Union or UN action that seeks to help us from the troubled countries from which people start, obviously in terms of our strength and economic potential. The second thing is that we call on the European Union to take responsibility for the protection of the border, the responsibility of which it is responsible today, for the protection of the border of the European Union, in essence, from six countries, to take the initiative to strengthen European border protection. At the European border, we need to establish points outside the border where, among immigrants who are moving towards us, economic immigrants, which have this plan or intention, choose those who are allowed in, accepted, integrated and implemented in their own economy or in their own society, but cannot in any way be a mandatory process. Therefore, the Hungarian government rejects mandatory reception and the compulsory quota in the strongest terms, and acknowledges that everyone accepts what they can and need. Let's be clear. There are countries in Europe who want to choose a solution to increase the number of contributors due to labour shortages or demographic reasons. It is their job to select the contributors, but we are thinking of a national solution, the nation is more important to us than the number of contributors, and the number and strength of the nation is more important than the number of contributors. If we want to accept someone in this country because we need them because of a shortage of workers, or we want to receive someone because we have demographic problems, then we are in an exceptional situation, because we are a country bordering with ourselves and there are Hungarians everywhere along the border. If you have to give someone this opportunity [[Zoltán Pride: Those who pay a lot of money for citizenship.]] Then it's gotta be them. [[14.00]] That is why we say that we reject the compulsory quota and that we will not use the voluntary quota. But we do not question whether Germany or other countries have the right to accept anyone on their own accord. Undoubtedly, the Hungarian government has a conviction obligation to warn Europe of the danger that we have come very far from the ideals of Christian Europe, and the dangers that have been expressed by Mr. Group leader, which sometimes call into question the identity of Europe, the spiritual existence of Europe. However, we do not wish to criticise the reception policy of a Member State, and we respect their decision. I would like to say that the Hungarian Government, therefore, today and the next few days, is seeking, first of all, to direct the European Commission and its fellow Members, together with V4, not by uncontrollable inclusion, but by controlled, organised, transparent entry, creating the possibility of keeping the process in hand. For Europe, it is suicide if we accept the thesis that anyone and everyone should be allowed into Europe, uncontrolled and uncontrolled. The European Union must select the people it accepts within a controlled, regulated and orderly framework. And here I would like to draw your attention to a very important difference: they are constantly talking about refugees, even though, according to the German estimate, a significant part of the entry is not a political refugee, but a livelihood immigrant, an economic immigrant. Please make a meaningful distinction between these two concepts, because there is a different treatment for political refugees and other economic immigrants. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-03-24	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Vona Gábor, leader of the Group of Jobbik, called "Foundations for the problem of immigration" has applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2015-09-03-25	Mr President, Dear Parliament, I think that without exaggeration it can be said that Hungarian public life, Hungarian politics, Hungarian Parliament, and how we will pass this exam will determine not only for a few cycles in advance, but for up to 50 or 100 years or more, Hungary's cultural, social, security and any other aspect of its situation. And that is why I think that first of all we need a calm and secure diagnosis, a constructive debate and real solutions, and in my speech today, I would like to make proposals for constructive debate and real solutions with a few basics. The first fundamental point that we must make is that this problem does not end now, this problem is actually beginning now. And what awaits us in the future, based on our current information, will only get worse than that, will only get worse. So when we are looking for solutions, let us not only start from the current situation, but also from the situation that awaits us in the future. My second fundamental point and the foundation of our party is that the humanitarian situation, the humanitarian disaster, is an important aspect of immigrants, but the humanitarian disaster now arises primarily in relation to Hungarian society and the Hungarian people. So it is important to consider immigrants as humans, to maintain attention, love of neighbor. At the same time, it is also up to Members of Parliament to be able to set priorities: the distinction between the important, the most important and the most important. And the most important thing for us here is the protection of Hungary, the security of the Hungarian society and the representation of the interests of the Hungarian people, and today it means that Hungary must be protected from migration. Let's not get delusional, there won't be a pan-European solution. Or if there is, it will be late, and if it is late, it will not be good for Hungary. However, we have come to the conclusion from the experience of recent years, and let us be honest with each other. Minister Trócsányi also said that we have to solve this problem ourselves, and that there is no need to wait for anyone else. I totally agree with that. Only if that is true, then why do we still insist on registration, which the Italians do not insist on, the Greeks do not insist. The news of the last five minutes that Vienna will release the Syrians without registration, the Czechs will all blow the Syrians to the wind, and we will still register here, like some eminent students. That's what Prime Minister is talking about. That's what the Prime Minister is talking about. We think we should realize that we can only rely on ourselves to solve our own problems. Government propaganda built on the fence collapsed when the fence wasn't even standing, and in connection with the fence, we said it was important, necessary, but not enough. There must be a live force there, the police alone will be scarce, and that is why we need to conduct the debates on the defence here in Parliament today and tomorrow. We are convinced that the military needs to be deployed and applied, and that it will be even more necessary in the future. Of course, there are small parties on the left who question this, but their social support, especially on this issue, is so marginal that the debate is no longer about whether there should be a defence or not, but between Fidesz and Jobbik, how to be a defence. And I think that the position of Jobbik in this debate is certainly worth considering for the ruling party. Jobbik says that the defence is necessary, that the use of tools that are not suitable for the taking of life will be necessary, but that in itself we do not create the right conditions by amending the law. Jobbik's position is that it is also necessary to amend the Fundamental Law, because in order not to put a military leader in a critical situation in Hungary at the southern borders, while taking action, while taking serious decisions, must issue serious orders, while in Budapest one of the small parties - in this case DK, let us say - is holding a press conference in front of the home press and the foreign press about its constitutional concerns. Now imagine how the Hungarian Defence Forces will be able to stand up in this situation! That is why we ask the governing parties to consider the Jobbik proposal to amend the Fundamental Law. Let us create certain and clear legal conditions to this effect, so that we do not get into this situation, because we are well aware of the national sense of responsibility of DK and Balliberal small parties in this regard, so that I can put it so delicately. And in conclusion, I would like to repeat what I said to Minister in his speech before the agenda, because this is a very important message, I think: this is not a party policy issue. Each party should be able to hold back, repress and treat this disaster as a national matter in a disaster situation. We are ready for this, we are able to act as a constructive and government-oriented opposition party. If the government wants to take substantial steps, if the government wants to move towards a solution here in Parliament, it can count on us as a constructive opposition party, even in the case of two-thirds votes. But if not, the governing party should expect us to be very tough opponents here in Parliament and outside the National Assembly by displaying the social will. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-03-26	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the Government, Minister for Defence Csaba Hende responds. Here you go, Minister.
u2015-09-03-27	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, As regards the role of defence in dealing with the migration crisis, our ideas on this, which are fully constitutional, are contained in our package of laws submitted to this House. The essence is very briefly: the Hungarian Fundamental Law distinguishes the fundamental tasks and other tasks of the Hungarian Defence Forces. The basic tasks include the protection of the state border by means of military defence, i.e. by armed forces and by the use of weapons capable of extinguishing life. This, of course, assumes a military threat and an attack. Non-essential, other tasks can be guaranteed by a two-thirds law as a right for the defence and the government. There are numerous two-thirds of these laws, it is enough to think only about the protection of the Holy Crown or the carrying out of the bombing activity. These are not listed in the Fundamental Law, but in the two-thirds Defense Act, but who could argue that this mandate was done in a constitutional way. Similarly, the bill before us, surrounded by two-thirds legal guarantees, and, yes, as you said: without the possibility of killing life, this question cannot be asked at all to use a Hungarian soldier's weapon against unarmed people. Thus, while maintaining the primary responsibility of the police, it ensures that, if necessary, certain special military involvement, including, of course, guard protection and, where appropriate, manoeuvring force, the Hungarian Defence Office can use it, the government can order this. I believe that in the consolidated Commission debate the day before yesterday, we discussed these issues very carefully, and that the representative of Jobbik's expert, Mr Mirkóczki, was perfectly understanding the government's reasoning in this regard, and he seemed to agree. [[14.10]] I ask that this professional consensus, which was established yesterday, be maintained in today's plenary debate. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-03-28	Thank you very much, Minister. The European Union's immigration policy has failed with the title of the Fidesz Group leader Antal Rogán applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2015-09-03-29	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, [[Zoltán Lukács: What do they say in Pasa Park?]] Indeed, as I said in response to Minister János Lázár and here in the title of my comment, I believe that the situation that has arisen today, and which characterizes the seas, characterizes the roads leading to Europe, whether the Keleti Railway Station is in Hungary, even in many areas of our country, is clearly responsible for the European Union's immigration policy that has failed. The immigration policy, the essence of which was that the irresponsible leaders of the European Union, with various declarations, encouraged people to move forward bravely in the hope of a better life, leaving everything behind, or risking their lives, to come to Europe, because they will be accepted in Europe. That is what has been said in various voices, and smugglers have made sure that potential immigrants can hear it, my fellow Members. And what we need to know among ourselves is that this situation cannot change until the European Union amends this immigration policy until the responsible leaders of the European Union say that everyone must comply with European Union legislation, there is border control and that no one can cross the borders, my fellow Members. However, until this situation is established, I think that we all have a common responsibility to ensure the protection of borders, especially because there is a Schengen agreement that has been set up jointly by the Schengen countries, the essence of which is that people can move freely within the European Union, they are free to rise from one country to another, but that is the prerequisite. There will be no border controls between Austria and Hungary, my fellow Members, if we can protect the Hungarian borders. And everyone here who talks about letting immigrants go on, fellow Members, is endangering the freedom of the Hungarians, because it risks being what we have already seen in Austria, when the M1 has been introduced for a day or two to three, by the way, for increased checks on cars and trucks. Ladies and gentlemen, Then there will again be border control at internal borders, and it will be bad for the Hungarian people as well. As my fellow Members, if someone says that there should be no registration, let us break European Union rules, it also risks bringing about a procedure that threatens Hungary, even the EU's money, because let's face it, the leaders of the European Union speak two languages in this area; because on the one hand they say that, of course, everyone is welcome, and on the other hand, my fellow Members, they do not give support to the protection of borders. How is it that Spain and Bulgaria have been helped to build the border fence and Hungary has not? Ladies and gentlemen, This shows that something is seriously wrong here in the European Union, and the leaders of the European Union are responsible for the situation, but the only way to resolve this is if Hungary and Hungarian politics do not share it. I would particularly like to ask my fellow left-wing Members to support here that the Hungarian Government and the Hungarian authorities are empowered to protect the borders. If we don't have this authorization, we won't be able to protect the borders. [[Zoltán Gőgös: You don't need support for this!]] This is for the police, the military, and, as appropriate, for all authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, The reason why the technical border lock cannot carry out its task today is that there is a grace period because the legislation does not allow anyone who is otherwise illegally crossing the border to initiate proceedings and take action against it by the police or the military. This would be created by the current laws, and we can accept them as soon as possible. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Geneva Convention!]] The sooner the Hungarian government can ensure the protection of borders. That is why, honourable Members, who do not support a derogation from house rules today, virtually says that they are withdrawing the opportunity from the Hungarian government to protect borders, that they want to waste time, that they want to let immigrants in. So, ladies and gentlemen, in the coming moments, I think that everything will be decided in the vote. We are waiting for everyone's help in this vote, but let me ask you not to speak in two languages any longer. We are clear, we have always told immigrants that we cannot let them in or let them through in Hungary. I'd ask everyone to do that. [[Zoltán Grimlock: 160,000 came in!]] I would also like to ask Mr Gábor Vona Group leader to exercise some self-criticism on the sentences he said two years ago, even on 8 November, if I can see clearly that Islam is the last hope of humanity in the darkness of globalisation and liberalism, because I do not think this is necessary. [[It's grumpy. The president's ringing the bell.]] Let us be honest: one of the problems with people arriving here is that, for example, in terms of Muslims, neither France, Germany, nor England have managed to solve integration. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-03-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I'll ask if anyone wants to respond on behalf of the government. [[No one's reporting. Dr. Agnes Vadai: No! Crying out of Jobbik's ranks: It's useless!]] I don't see any contact. We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask Mr Nándor Gúr to present further speeches that are not on the agenda. Here you go, notary.
u2015-09-03-31	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The speech following today's agenda was submitted by Mr Benedek Sallai, LMP; István Ikotity, LMP; Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik; Lajos Kepli, Jobbik; Előd Novák, Jobbik. Speaking before the agenda tomorrow, representatives from István Ikotity, LMP; Nándor Gúr, MSZP; László Szászfalvi, KDNP; János Volner, Jobbik; Bence Tuzson, Fidesz. György László Lukács, Jobbik; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik; Előd Novak, Jobbik.
u2015-09-03-32	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, I declare that the Fidesz Group, by adding the necessary signatures - the XXXVI of 2012 on Parliament. Law 35. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the Parliament initiated the convening of an extraordinary meeting in order to discuss four proposals. You can find these submissions on our website. I declare that President János Áder sent his transcript of the appointment of the Vice-President of the Hungarian National Bank to the Parliament. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the transcript of the President of the Republic.
u2015-09-03-33	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament, Budapest. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that the 2013 CXXXIX on the National Bank of Hungary. Article 11 István Nagy was appointed Vice-President of the Hungarian National Bank with effect from 1 September 2015. Budapest, August 6, 2015 Sincerely: President János Áder
u2015-09-03-34	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Parliament and myself, I wish the Vice-President effective work and good luck. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that Antal Rogán Fideszes and Szilárd Németh also received a motion to suspend the immunity of members of the Fidesz Parliament 31.Bpk.646/2015. of the Central District Court of Buda. The Speaker of Parliament has issued these to the immunity committee for examination. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President for speaking time limits. Now I ask you all to make sure that your voting card is properly placed in the voting machine. Thank you very much. [[14.20]] I would like to inform you that the House Committee has tabled a proposal for a derogation from a house rule, but, acting as chairman, I am proposing a derogation from two additional house rules. First, we shall decide on the motions put forward by the President. I move that the Parliament amends certain laws in relation to the management of mass immigration T/5983. In the course of the negotiation of the No.3 proposal, move away from the house rules in such a way that the final vote can take place on tomorrow's day. T/5983/3 proposed a derogation from the house rules. All of you could get to know him on the website. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the house rules, the four-fifths of the Members present need to vote in favour. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to derogate from the house rules. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not accept the derogation from the house rules by 146 yes, 41 no votes and no abstentions. [[Applause in the ranks of the independent. Sándor Font: Who are you clapping for?]] Dear Parliament, The Government initiated an extraordinary procedure for the Parliament to discuss the T/5983 amendment of individual laws in connection with the management of mass immigration. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. Ladies and gentlemen, The Government has initiated the possibility of submitting amendments until the third hour after the decision on the exceptional procedure has been taken; the consolidated debate and the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Rule 62 of the House Rules Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the hearing in exceptional proceedings without debate. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that more than half of the Members, namely 100 Members, have to vote in favour in order to order an exceptional procedure. Now it's time for decision-making. I'm asking you if T/5983 is accepted. Submitted in exceptional proceedings pursuant to the national motion. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the hearing of the proposal in exceptional proceedings 146 yes, 41 not by vote, without abstention. As I said, according to the house rules, 100 Members have to vote in favour. I would like to inform you that the House Rules of Decision 62. According to paragraph 5 of Section 5 of the Acting Committee, in the exceptional procedure, the detailed discussion of the proposal will be conducted. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In accordance with our agreed decision, instead of the general debate on the proposal, the joint debate will take place tomorrow, before the decisions are taken, and the proposals for amendments will be submitted for another three hours, so today it will be possible to do so for 17 hours 23 minutes, and the final vote will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, I now take the initiative, under the authority of the President, that the Parliament, on the amendment of certain laws in relation to the more effective protection of Hungary's state border and the management of mass immigration, is T/5985. In the course of the negotiation of the No.3 proposal, move away from the Rules so that the final vote can take place on tomorrow's day. Proposal for a derogation from house rules T/5985/2. You can get to know him on the website. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the house rules, the four-fifths of the Members present need to vote in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to derogate from the Rules of the House. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not accept the derogation from the Rules of the House 146 yes, 41 votes against and without abstention. Since the Parliament did not accept a derogation from the house rules, the general debate on the proposal will take place tomorrow afternoon. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the message to the leaders of the European Union is H/5984. No one has initiated a derogation from the House Rule of the Decision on the subject of this proposal, so we do not have to decide on this. The general debate on the proposal will take place tomorrow afternoon. Dear Parliament, The House Committee initiated the Parliament's CXVII of 1995 on personal income tax. Act XCII of 2003 on the Rules of Taxation. T/5986. In the course of the negotiation of the No.3 proposal, move away from the house rules in such a way that the final vote can take place on tomorrow's day. The proposal for a derogation from the house rules was made by T/5986/2. You can find it on the website. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the house rules, a vote of four fifths of the Members of Parliament present is required. So I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the T/5986 contributes to the departure from the house rules. On the basis of a number of recommendations. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the derogation from the Rules by 180 votes yes, 8 votes no and 1 abstentions. The joint debate on the proposal will take place today. Dear Parliament, In the case of derogations from the adopted house rules, amendments may be submitted by 15:00 today. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. Before that, however, I declare that, in the light of the exceptional procedure adopted, the decisions will take place at 12:00 tomorrow at the earliest; that is, at 12:00 tomorrow at the earliest. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] It's a visible majority. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that a decision on a personal proposal will not take place today. Now it's 2:29 p.m., and we're moving on to interpellations, immediate questions and questions. [[Noise, several congressmen are leaving their seats.]] [[14.30]] Dear Parliament, I have an important announcement to make. Please wait for this. I would like to inform you that the Speaker of Parliament is the Rules of Procedure 121. Paragraph 4 (a), point 124. By Mrs Loránt Hegedűs and by representatives of Adam Mirkóczki and Tamás Sneider, Mr K/5923. He rejected the written question submitted to the Minister of Human Resources because the motion was not within the minister's remit. Thank you for your patience. Dear Parliament, Congressman Bertalan Tóth, a representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy: It's an address. Congressman Bertalan Tóth has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-03-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, [[To András Tállai:]] Dear Secretary of State, I see the Minister has fled the question, but I will put it to you. This year is about scandals in the tax and financial world. About the fact that some leaders, fidesz background people, have lost hundreds of billions of dollars in our tax dollars... [[It's a lot of noise.]]
u2015-09-03-36	Excuse me, Congressman. I'll count on your time, but I'll wait until it's quiet, at least to the degree of silence that makes the interpellation fit for speech. Thank you, fellow Members, for your understanding. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-03-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So about the scandals where some leaders, fidesz background people, have lost hundreds of billions of dollars in our tax dollars, savings for small investors. To this day, we still have the NAV scandal in our memory. Vida Ildikó and other tax authorities have been declared undesirable in the United States due to suspicion of corruption. But we also remember the Quaestor leader, Csaba Tarsoly, who has been in close contact with the Minister of Foreign Affairs and other leading Fidesz politicians, who has been able to manage the pyramid game that causes hundreds of billions in financial supervision and György Matolcsy's eyes for years. But we can also remember the Buda-Cash scandal, where tens of billions disappeared, and it was done by family-related brokers to some pro-government politicians. Hungária Érték Zrt. is a scandal. He also had a case where hundreds of millions of forints of public money were stuck in there when government officials, in violation of the law, entrusted all of our money to such imposters. And we cannot pass the story of the legendary Széchenyi Bank of István Töröcskei. This is the case in which the state lost at least 10 billion forints of public money because someone was carelessly and very consciously not doing their job well. In the case of Széchenyi Bank, there are a lot of coincidences, and I don't believe in such coincidences. If you like, we're screwed again. Mr. Törcskei's fidesz attachment is well known. We know that he gave birth to lex Töröcskei, on the basis of which he was able to retain the interests of Széchenyi banker, together with his appointment as CEO of the Government Debt Management Centre. It is well known that Mr Matolcsy and Minister Varga brought together the transaction in which 49 percent of the shares were purchased in Széchenyi Bank for HUF 3 billion by the Hungarian State. This was done despite the fact that the financial supervision found irregularities in the operation of the Bank of Széchenyi already in 2011, but until November 2014, all frauds, lawlessnesss, and supervision had been substantially ignored. What has been made public about the Széchenyi Bank is a criminal offense. It's called cheating around here. In this case, the responsibility of the Ministry of National Economy as preparing the transaction and representing the State in Széchenyi Bank is inevitable. Why did the Hungarian state have to enter the irregular, scoundrel-style bank? How can the Ministry remain silent? Please respond to your feelings of responsibility for the ten billion-dollar public money you have complained about in Széchenyi Bank, or tell us [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Whether they feel like a misguided, deluded character in the case. Of course, that raises more questions. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much.
u2015-09-03-38	Thank you very much. Before giving Mr Tállai the opportunity to reply, I say to those who have shown the three minutes that it would have been good if they had listened to me when I interrupted the Member and informed him that I would count on the time. I have already announced that Parliamentary Secretary András Tállai will answer the question of interpellation. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-09-03-39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I must admit that I am surprised to see and listen to you, since you accuse Fidesz pro-government politicians of corruption and theft without thinking; you accuse yourself in a loud voice. However, I would like to draw your attention to one thing that has happened in your public life. You must have heard, haven't you, that the buses were sold in 2009 at the time of your sub-Mayor in Pécs, for HUF 2.4 billion, without a resolution of the General Assembly, in a hand-written invoice. The people in this case claim that you knew about this and, as deputy mayor, you did not prevent Pécs from doing billions of dollars in damage to the city. [[There's a lot of noise from the pro-government benches.]] Before you accuse yourself so bravely, without thinking and without the facts, account for your own public activities first. They have already left 100 million in damage, and Pécs's Fidesz municipality had to deal with it. [[It's constant noise. Zoltán Lukács: They could hardly steal anything! Crying from the benches of the MSZP, including: Széchenyi Bank? Answer the question. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] The other thing that came to my mind is that the news is true, you're still involved in the casting of the PM's nominations. [[It's constant noise. István Szávay: Nobody cares! Cries from the benches of the MSZP, including: Széchenyi Bank! Answer me!]] It's probably a condition for you to say as much as possible. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] I want you to make as many untruths as possible. [[Interviews from the benches of the MSZP, including: Answer me!]] Honourable Congressman, I'm saying you're good at this. He's good at making false statements about lying, it might be enough in the MSZP for the Prime Minister's candidacy, but certainly not in the country. [[It's a lot of noise.]] Before you accuse me, I think you're basing this on the facts. For nearly two minutes he accused pro-government politicians, but as far as the specific question about Széchenyi Bank is concerned, I can tell you that unlike you, with your government, the current government aims to strengthen the domestic banking system and maintain its stability. In the spirit of this strategy, the State bought minority property in Széchenyi Bank and thus wished to strengthen Széchenyi Bank. After the acquisition of minority ownership, information has come to light that has led the government, the state, to warn the majority owner to settle the bank's capital situation. He's done that more than once. He drew attention to the irregularity, to restoring the stability of the bank and to repair it. After this did not happen despite the call of multiple minority owners, the Hungarian National Bank withdrew the operation of the bank. In line with the ownership rates, the Hungarian State had 49 percent as a good and responsible owner in terms of compensation, and the Hungarian State paid the victims over the amount of EUR 100,000 compensated by the OBA. The bank is currently in liquidation, after the liquidation it will be known whether the Hungarian State is affected by any damage in this respect. Of course, the Hungarian State will do everything in its power to ensure that this damage is limited or not done at all. And if there have been violations or lawlessness, it is obvious that the liquidation will reveal itself and that the authorities will take appropriate action. Thank you for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-09-03-40	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-03-41	Thank you very much. I don't accept... [[György Balla: Prime Minister-designate, wait for your microphone.]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I don't accept the answer. I don't wish to be personal...
u2015-09-03-42	Excuse me, Congressman. [[He's jogging the bell.]] I would very much like to ask the Members of this House, especially the Vice-President of the Group. [[Zoltán Lukács: Director of Fraction!]] or Mr. Chairman of the Group [[Zoltán Lukács: Director of Action and that's how smart he is!]] to ensure that So that I can ensure a smooth operation. Thank you all very much for understanding. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-03-43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't accept the answer. I do not wish to get personal, as Parliamentary Secretary Tállai does all the time, but I would like to record one for you. [[András Tállai: You started the personalization! You're the one who gave me the names first!]] If I ever become Prime Minister, I'm sure you won't be Secretary of State or NAV president. [[András Tállai: I don't want to be with you!]] [[14.40]] By the way, the answer in detail reminds me of a dialogue from the movie The Seven Snipers: I knew a man in El Paso, once undressed and jumped into a cactus bush. And I asked him why. And what did he say? That it seemed like a good idea at the moment. That's how you boarded the Széchenyi Bank, but you did 10 billion forints in public money. Count on that, Mr. Secretary, and answer this, not just for me, but for Hungarian citizens: how could it happen? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And what will the consequences be? Thank you very much.
u2015-09-03-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 100 votes in favour, 36 against and without abstentions. Representative Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:. With the shameful distribution of state land, Fidesz's new landlord system will be completed. Congressman Zoltán Magyar, please take the floor.
u2015-09-03-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Minister, During the summer's political cucumber season, when everyone was paying attention to illegal migration, another serious problem was being kept under the surface by the government. We can't be surprised at that, because you are shamefully preparing to sell our last serious national wealth, the still community-owned land. With this step, they're following the same shameful robbing-privatization model that wiped this country out. For 25 years, Hungarian people have been desperate to pull the national economy out from under them. The heavy and light industry, the food processing industry, and now they're playing state land. The public ownership ratio of only 10 percent of our country's production areas should not be reduced, but should be substantially increased. And even if you lie to the whole country that you believe in a strong state and that national property will be protected, unfortunately, your greed will override everything, you'll run over everything and everyone. With the decision to sell community land, the government has taken another decisive step to cement the colonial status of our country. The details of the sale of state land so far are also unacceptable. In contrast to the government's claim, it will not put small and medium-sized family farms on the ground, but will result in the construction of a new landlord system built on the basis of party loyalty. This is the most serious attempt to steal public property in the last 25 years. In previous leases, it turned out that some governments were close families and businesses the biggest winner of the tenders. With the same mafia methods, they will also operate the sales very well, so it can already be covered that the same interests benefit most from the loss of national assets. However, just as in the spring, the Jobbik is not alone in the fight against the sale of state land to protect national parks. Civilians have initiated a collection of signatures, and Jobbik encourages all Hungarians to stand up for this initiative, sign it, add its name, because we can only prevent this privatisation together, together, in a great resistance. It is important to realise that the state land is a national property. It is the common property of all of us, to which we have authorized the government, to use it wisely, in the hope that it will serve the common good. We believe that without humans, without the authority of the actual owners, they cannot sell our land. They can't use it to increase their private wealth. And if they do, we can not only take our trust, but our property back from this government and its landlords. Mr. Secretary. Take back this outrage! [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-03-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. Minister Sándor Fazekas will answer the interpellation question. Here you go, Minister.
u2015-09-03-47	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We have heard several times that Zoltán Magyar is a better-looking Member of Parliament, whether in the current interpellation, planned public land sales, land leases, things that are not really connected to reality, have nothing to do with the debate in front of the public, because we know that for months there has been a debate about the sale of state land. Several opinions were expressed, but the Member did not meet them during his leave of absence, and he was suddenly surprised. I will try to inform you and the Honourable Parliament, this House, and I would like to give you some surprises, too, because I think that this is not just what you are missing, but something else too. Dear Parliament, I think it must be said first of all that the state does not want to sell land, but rather that farmers want to buy land. It's an old demand, and it says that the land belongs to the man who cultivates it. We have documented, measured data that over the past year and a half, 6 thousand claims have been received from farmers for the purchase of land below 3 hectares, and the multiples of this are still in areas that constitute state land assets. By the way, we are talking about a total of 50,000 land, 41,000 of which are less than 10 hectares. So the building of great estates, oligarchs, and landlords can hardly be discussed here. I also reject the reasoning that anyone who wants to buy land from the Hungarian state would be or would want to be a landlord. Honourable Hungarian peasants and farmers want to buy land, who, either because of undivided common property, have a problem with state property or a few hectares of land that hinders them in development, in order to strengthen their economy, or in smaller or larger areas - we can see this in most parts of the country - which are left behind by different programmes. It is enough to refer to the MSZP - land for life support or what kind of program it is. So here's the thing: it's mostly small parcels. Nor can we say that it is some kind of misrepresentation, Honourable Parliament, this is hysterical, because the state owns about 2 million hectares of land, 80 percent of which will remain state property in the future, as for example, forests and protected areas cannot be covered by this land sale. It's a sale, an open sale at a public auction. Local farmers can take this part, there are 102 thousand Hungarian farmers in the register of farmers. Everything else that the congressman has said is the twisting of facts, the ignorance of the land law and the disregard of the NFA law. So 102,000 farmers can buy land and there are about 50,000 areas. Auction takes place in public, speculators, tricks, mugs are excluded. Who can't buy land at the auction? Companies, legal entities, foreigners who aren't farmers, who aren't local residents, they're rural. For example, speculators can't get to the ground. Honourable Congressman, Obviously, the subject of this interpellation is the current situation, but I would also like to draw attention to an earlier vote on the National Earth Fund Act here in Parliament, a two-thirds law, a law under which the current sale of land will start, passed by the Parliament on 22 July 2010 in addition to two thirds of Fidesz. The entire Jobbik faction, you voted for it, Gábor Vona also voted for it. What are we talking about? The decision was already made. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Fidesz.]]
u2015-09-03-48	Thank you very much, Minister. I respectfully ask Congressman if he accepts the ministerial answer. Here you go.
u2015-09-03-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It is quite amazing, Minister, that you claim that in 2010 you were told that your plan is to sell state land five years later! I didn't say anything about that. [[Dr. Sándor Fazekas: It's in the law.]] You promised to protect national wealth and a strong state, not to ask anyone for permission to do so. And the fact that you have consulted with the stakeholders does not give us any thought, because Lőrinc Mészáros, for example, is a crusty-handed, locally-living farmer - as the Minister confirmed in an interview the other day - he is not a locally-living farmer for us goodies, and since it turns out that he and his interests were, for example, the biggest winner of state land lease applications, it is possible to envelop that they will also be preferred to sales. This is totally unacceptable. By the way, Jobbik has today submitted draft legislative amendments that will be able to prevent this, and I urge all good-sense Members who are concerned about Hungarian national property and the Hungarian future to support these proposals. I can't accept your answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-03-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman did not accept the Minister's reply, so I ask the Parliament whether it will accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial response by 102 votes to 26, with two abstentions. [[14.50]] Dear Parliament, Representatives of Mr András Schiffer and Mr Benedek Sallai R. Benedek, representatives of the LMP, have submitted an interpellation to the minister leading the Prime Minister's Office with the title: "Privatisation to the top: the evading of state property." The Interpellation will be answered by Minister for Agriculture Sándor Fazekas, who is responsible and competent according to the subject. I now give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, who will present the interpellation.
u2015-09-03-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Based on my own judgment, our impressions, the Fidesz broke up with everything he ever said. He broke up with the national rural strategy of increasing the state's land assets. He broke off with his own land traffic law, in which he even imposed his pre-emptive right in order to achieve that goal. This is not only amazing and disappointing, but it is also a sign that the government's budget is unsustainable without substantial privatisation revenues, and recognises that without this solitude it will go on the same nation-treasoning path as its predecessors did in carrying out privatisations. Privatization takes place in the Hungarian public address by defining the free disintegration of public property. This is what they are doing now, and this is what they are doing, and in order to ask concrete questions, I am obviously curious about how they intend to do this, how they think without amending the NFA Act. It's obviously the 18th. § 2 determines what this property can be used for, and you cannot choose just one point from it. I wonder how, if you do not wish to amend this legislation, you will comply with it, because that is what 15 is for. Paragraph 1 gives specific examples of what to use that state land asset for. You want to get around the National Assembly completely, and you're not even gonna get this subject in here, just for a few questions? What plans do you have to use the revenues you plan to make? This is also an important issue, since the NFA Act defines what it can be used for and should in practice buy new land from it. Minister János Lázár and Secretary of State Márton Örs Bitay spoke last week about the need for farmers to make the move; you have now confirmed this. What I'm wondering is where, apart from the Chamber of Agriculture and the Magos, is this record of any kind, of anything. I also asked on a written question where there is only one farmer's consultation, what you are talking about, that you have consulted on this matter. I would also like to ask how you think it will serve the goals of the government and the Prime Minister, that this will bring home the small estates, because the bidding will not be for the little ones. With a public bid, how do you think family farms can live? So you think 400 billion is sewn into the pillow at the Hungarian family farms? So what is the source of this? Do you think that if a small family farmer doesn't have his own money, everyone will take credit? If so, how is this in line with the government's goal of fighting debt and debt spirals? However you look at it, the questions are just in line, and you want to rule out full parliamentary consultation. The most important question on our part is clearly: is there any sense, is there any pressure that you allow them to stand away from this very stupid, stupid, nation-treasoning idea of privateizing the Hungarian land? Is there any hope? - I ask the Minister with respect. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-09-03-52	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman. Interpellation, I told you once, is a bound genre. In the course of the interpellation, the interpelling representative is obliged to stick to all that he has sent to the interpelled in writing. The resolution rules say 123. § 3 that if the president senses... Since I have the interpellation texts in front of me, and when it is obvious to me that it is fundamentally different, it is my duty to ask the interpellation whether he accepts and wants to respond to the interpellation in such a case. But that's also his right. Therefore, I would like to ask Minister Sándor Fazekas whether, since I have experienced such a derogation, Minister will answer the questions that have been raised. [[Dr. Sándor Fazekas: I'll do it.]] paragraph 1 that if you perceive the president... Since I have the interpellation texts in front of me, and when it is obvious to me that it is fundamentally different, it is my duty to ask the interpellation whether he accepts and wants to respond to the interpellation in such a case. But that's also his right. Therefore, I would like to ask Minister Sándor Fazekas whether, since I have experienced such a derogation, Minister will answer the questions that have been raised. (Dr. Sándor Fazekas: I'll do it. ) Minister will do it. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2015-09-03-53	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for asking. The Member asked a number of questions to which the answer would have been that if he had carefully read the land law or the NFA law, he could have had it, even as if he had wanted to buy land in the past period, even protected areas. We do not need a large public opinion poll to face the fact that farmers have an intention to buy land. It is enough to see how many of these intentions, such requests are received by the National Earth Fund, how many people speak at host forums, how many say that they buy, let's say, the undivided share of common property that if they can claim for their own property, they can still make improvements, such as irrigation. It's one thing. So I think the situation here is clear. What's unclear is what the congressman's motivation is. When you want to buy land, is the law of land and the National Fundamental Law good when someone else wants to buy land not so good? What is this, if it is not political hystericalism, which is the accumulation of capital by a Member who could not figure out how much land he uses, where he applied, how much he wants to apply and how much different agricultural support and rural development support he has received in the context of the national rural strategy that he is asking us to do, and in the context of the Dányi Ignác programme that we are implementing, honourable Member. We implement it, and we believe that the Hungarian land is in the best place with Hungarian farmers, the land is a national treasure, and it should be covered by most of the land owners who cultivate it. Of course, the state also retains strategic land properties that are needed: forests, for example, national parks, protected areas. These are not covered by the sale of land. It's not privatization, it's sale, it's a public auction, it's a clearly visible set of conditions, which, by the way, are contained in the laws. Dear Parliament, The auction will therefore take place at market prices. There's no way around this. On the spot, the price of the land is in public, so we can't talk about profiteers standing on state property, and so on, which is also included in the written text of the interpellation. I think we should ask ourselves, in the name of the Hungarian economy, these claims that this is some sort of "sundam-fur" or "privatisation" of some kind. There are decent buying intentions, which are otherwise understandable, and I think the government should respond to that. Whether they actually buy that land or not, it's obvious. There will be areas for which there will be customers, for which there will be no. But they're all going to go public. As I mentioned earlier, over a year and a half, six thousand farmers bought land under three acres. It's a talkative number. This shows that there is such an intention on the part of the farming community. And whether there will be coverage or not, I think we should leave that to the farmers, because we are talking about 50,000 land, as I said, 41 percent of which are under 10 hectares. So it is also available for a family economy, which can be purchased in size, especially when it comes to its value. I hope that there will be a significant demand, and that we will be able to use the funds to buy additional land, to develop agriculture and to develop the economy, as we have said in the national rural strategy. And finally. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Mr. Congressman, he was not a member of Parliament in 2010, but I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that on 22 June 2010 the National Earth Fund Act was voted by the entire LMP fraction, including the possibility of selling. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] András Schiffer voted the same way. We are convinced that the Hungarian land is the best place for Hungarian farmers. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-09-03-54	Thank you very much. I'll ask Congressman if he'll take the minister's answer.
u2015-09-03-55	I don't accept the answer. Mr President, Dear Minister, First of all, let me tell you that I recommend to you that this week, on September 1st, the Daily Economy lost a press case against me because it brought down the lies you told, and that will hopefully continue, so they will collapse because of it. Secondly, let me say that the NFA Act, which was voted by the LMP and Jobbik, does not include the need to privatise the land, but the 18th. §2 of the Act states that it will be used by way of a public tender for leases, asset management or exchange. So read this legislation, you were already here, you should know what's in it. Third, he told me that the man who cultivated the land should have the land. That's the problem. At the moment in Hungary, the vast majority of agricultural land is cultivated by large farms, and they will also be able to buy it. That's the problem. [[Dr. Sándor Fazekas: That's not true.]] Last, I would like to ask Minister that you do not ask for anything in the name of the farming community, because you represent Lőrinc Mészáros, Imre Huba and others like this, but you do not represent the host society. [[Intercoms from the LMP benches: That's right!]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik, LMP and MSZP. Dr. Sándor Fazekas: You don't represent anything, that's the problem.]] [[15.00]]
u2015-09-03-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman didn't accept the Minister's answer. I ask my fellow Members if they will accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial response by 102 votes to 32 with one abstention. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek has asked for the floor in order of business. I would like to inform you that it is only at the end of the interpellation period that it is possible to make a point of order. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Member Erik Bánki, representative of Fidesz, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy. What measures is the government planning to put into circulation car and consumer loans? It's an address. Congressman Bánki Erik has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-03-57	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, One of the most serious challenges in recent years has been the crisis of foreign exchange creditors. We now have papers from the highest judicial forum, the Mansion, that banks behaved unfairly when the interest rates and other conditions of foreign exchange loans were established. Among the victims were thousands of Hungarian families, ready to act, willing to work and live, so their help became a national interest. After years of legislative process and many efforts, it seems that the situation of most of them has been resolved in a satisfactory manner. The final repayment, the exchange rate barrier, the bank settlement after the National Asset Manager and the forinting of housing loans have provided substantial help to over half a million Hungarian families, as they now have to pay significantly lower details. Let me remind you that no one previously thought that we could force the banks to this extent to represent the interests of their clients, the Hungarian people, above all their own interests. However, there are still loans that are currency-based. Car loans and other personal loans should be considered in particular. The voters have received a number of letters from us in recent years that said that if the repayments increase to this extent, the authentic will lose their car, because because of the unfairly increased repayments, they cannot pay any additional payments to the bank. At this point, I would like to remove the misconception, honourable Members, that cars are a luxury item, because in the countryside, many families cannot provide their livelihoods, they cannot go to work, and they cannot bring their children to school and to educational institutions. Therefore, we must also settle the situation of these people and these families. The above mentioned circle, car and other personal loans amount to HUF 300 billion in the order of magnitude. This is significantly lower than the stock of mortgage loans, but it should be taken into account that in view of the number of contracts exceeding 200 000, a significant number of households are affected and, on the other hand, there is a risk that they will not be able to pay this instalment and will not be able to fulfil any other obligations. There are about 30 thousand foreign exchange-car-credit debtors with mortgages. The valuation of the Swiss franc in January 2015 significantly increased the burden of remaining foreign exchange-credit debtors. The past period in 2002, 2008 and 2011 has shown that Swiss francs can be unpredictably and unexpectedly strengthened, and therefore it is necessary to ensure that the remaining foreign exchange creditors are also eliminated. On account of the above, I think it is clear that, although the size of the problem of car-crediters is much smaller, it is also a problem that we need to find a solution to. That is why I am asking Mr Secretary of State what measures the government is planning to take in order to forge car and consumer loans. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-03-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State András Tállai. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-09-03-59	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, as you have said here in Parliament, one of the biggest social problems has been solved in the last few years by the government and Parliament together. At the time, of course, it seemed that our biggest difficulty was the mass of foreign exchange credentials in the country. This is no longer the biggest problem today, not only because we have eliminated the foreign exchange credit problem, but also because in the meantime there have been other major problems with the country. Over the years, solutions have been found, both internationally recognised in other countries and even taken over our laws, and in several countries they are trying to exploit certain elements. On the other hand, it must also be taken into account that a fair solution had to be made, since foreign exchange lenders could not have been better off than those who at the same time took out their loans in HUF, with a fixed rate, of course, and with higher interest rates. However, the solution had to be found legally, and it took several years to do so, when the Curia decided in June 2014 to issue a resolution on the basis of which the laws could be drawn up for the Parliament. And, of course, financially, a solution had to be put before the Parliament, taking into account the country's capacity to carry out its tasks and the operational nature of the banks. We believe that these expectations have been met. And indeed, the last step is the issue and problem of foreign exchange credentials. This affects over 200,000 contracts and over 300,000 people. Most of these people also took out mortgage loans, more than 30,000 of them, so their problems are not underestimated either. In this respect, the Government discussed a proposal which it accepted and on this basis signed an agreement with the Banking Association on 19 August, in which it agreed to settle these loans. The exchange rate of 19 August was decisive and decisive. However, this will be more favourable for car- foreign exchange lenders, since the difference between the exchange rate of 19 August and the exchange rate of November 2014 with which the mortgage loans were converted into forints is jointly assumed by the banks and the State. This is 31 billion forints, half of which will be held by the government and the other half by the banks. So the car credit card payments will definitely decrease by 10-15 percent compared to the current one. However, in order for this to happen, the government will ask for the help of the Parliament, and we hope that, knowing the wording of the law, it will be accepted by the Parliament by 30 September, and that the conversion to the forint may begin on 1 December, and that the lower instalment will be completed. Hopefully, this will help to finalise Hungary's case of currency lenders affecting millions of people with an appropriate and acceptable solution. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-03-60	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2015-09-03-61	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! We are pleased to note that the Hungarian reforms are working. As the Secretary of State has said, the Banking Association has also been able to agree that the remaining foreign currency loans will be HUFed at the exchange rate of 19 August. I am sure that Parliament will, by the end of September, adopt the legislation that will allow this remaining loan to be run out by the end of the year. The decisions taken by the Hungarian Government in recent years and the laws of the Hungarian Parliament are examples of how a government, a parliament, should protect its own citizens and ensure that they can be properly accounted for, if appropriate, even by banks. I am pleased, Mr State Secretary, that the last step will be taken, and that, as I started in my introduction, Hungarian reforms are working, which we hope will continue to work and that we can continue to work successfully. The answer is accepted. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-03-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman. [[15.10]]
u2015-09-03-63	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, In recent times, after the big rumblings of dirt, traffikmut and the Quaestor case, there's another scandal that we can call a co-operative slug. The First Hungarian Environmental Social Cooperative received a HUF 2.9 billion non-refundable grant for the employment of underqualified, disadvantaged people. Nothing or very little has been achieved so far for sound purposes formulated by ETUS. In recent weeks, nearly a thousand employees visited the local organizations of the MSZP in the counties of Hajdú-Bihar, Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok and Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg. According to them, the management of the cooperative did not keep virtually anything of its promises. The leaders of the cooperative are inaccessible, essentially disappearing. At the given headquarters, the mayor's office in Jászapát, recently they are not located in their offices in Budaörs. According to the victims, the leaders of the cooperative do not consider them human, nor do they speak to them. In their communication since the scandal broke out, the government blamed the workers for the first time, and then the MSZP was responsible, and the last time it turned out that there was serious abuse at the cooperative. As the stakeholders put it: it seems that the leaders of the cooperative think that poor, poor, poor people can do everything in Hungary today. The leaders of the cooperative seemed confident, and they first accused the workers of breach of obligations. They may feel serious political support behind their backs because they dared to commit so much lawlessness. The strong government backwind also shows that out of the 150 applicants, the company without any references was rewarded with a project of nearly 6 billion. The National Development Government Committee has decided that ETUSZ has to win, and Viktor Orbán himself is known to be a member of it. The people of Hajdú-Bihar, Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok and Szabolcs-Szatmár county who have been tricked by Fidesz's Kissing Association, 2800 families - we are talking about almost 10,000 people - have daily problems of living. That is why, Mr Secretary of State, why is the fate of nearly 3,000 people not important to the Hungarian government? When does the government compensate people? It is expected that the Hungarian government, which is clearly responsible for the situation, will act immediately, intervene immediately, and that the damage will be carried out on the ETUSZ itself before it disappears. Mr. Secretary, before you answer, I would like to draw your attention, not to wait for a tragedy to come. These people are so desperate that some of them are actually on the verge of living, essentially on the verge of starving to death. We're talking 2,800 families. I would very much ask you, Secretary of State, to pay attention to these people. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2015-09-03-64	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-09-03-65	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, First, a few words about the project itself, which, as you said, was indeed launched by the First Hungarian Environmental Social Cooperative. According to the original grant agreement, which was actually supported by the government, HUF 2.9 billion was the sponsorship part and HUF 2.5 billion was self-strength in the project, whose main goal is to employ people who are under-qualified, primarily unemployed for a very long time, without a degree in activities that can be trained relatively easily and quickly, and then they can find some place in that area and earn income. In particular, they wanted to train them in bulk for various forestry and timber works. For this purpose, the form of aid, the payment made after the settlement, was recorded in the grant agreement. 2800 jobs had to be created under the grant agreement for six months from the grant and from 1 December 2015 for at least three months during the maintenance period, these people will have to be employed by ETUSZ on their own behalf under the grant agreement. Therefore, the various accounts have always been examined by the support organisation and referred to as much aid as the amount of wage cleared. At the same time, during the summer, the signs on which the congresswoman also indicated that, although these people were hired, they were in stock, some of them were not paid, their contracts were terminated, and they did not receive the payment they had to receive under the grant agreement. Therefore, two investigations have been launched against ETUSZ, one launched by the Ministry of Human Resources, and the other launched by the Prime Minister's Office, precisely to reveal that if the state paid the part that had to be available for these people's wages as a subsidy, then why didn't these people receive the rightful payment. On 19 August 2015, three cases of irregularity were initiated within the framework of the EMMI monitoring visit. One is the examination of irregularities in labour documents, as they have been incurred, and the second is the advance financing of items to be financed from self-force, and the third is proof of self-force and its non-scheduled use. In these, the EMMI launched a very detailed and pervasive investigation, because it is extremely important for us that these people - almost three thousand people - improve their social situation, and the government has made a great financial sacrifice, so it is important that this employment is guaranteed. If the examination of the Prime Minister's Office or the examination of the EMMI reveals irregularities in the final report, then, of course, it will not pay any aid for money wrongly spent and will make the beneficiaries count to the last fill-in in respect of aid which has not been used properly. This is one part of the matter that concerns the supported organisation. Here, we will use all kinds of civil or criminal rights opportunities, and we will protect the public money. The other part is the situation of these people, who had a expectation that they would have some kind of employment for six months after many years of unemployment. In their case, if it is proven - and this is likely now - that ETUSZ cannot provide them with a job during the maintenance period, then we will look at the possibility that together with other wallets - not only the EMMI - in the public employment programme or in other ways - we can provide them with integration into the labour market, which was also the original goal of the project, and the government's aim was to ensure further. I ask Mrs Congresswoman to accept my answer after this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-03-66	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I respectfully ask Congresswoman if she accepts the Secretary of State's reply.
u2015-09-03-67	I cannot accept it, Mr Secretary, because I have asked that since these people have not received any income for 3-4 months, immediate intervention is required. In the meantime, you can conduct an investigation into who is responsible for this and what is your responsibility, that the payments have been made without having noticed the irregularity. Let me tell you something. You are so proud to have entered Parliament from an individual district! Győző Vinnai, Attila Tilki, Miklós Seszták, László Pósán, László Tasó, István Vitányi, Sándor Fazekas, János Pócs - who, as mayor himself, registered this company in the mayor's office - did not speak once in the summer about the 2800 employees and 2800 families. [[Intercoms in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] They kept quiet because they knew they were guilty! That's why they kept quiet. You can't wait for tragedy to happen. [[Constant interruptions. The president's ringing the bell.]] We need immediate action, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-09-03-68	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, The congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 104 votes to 38, with no abstentions. Congressman Lajos Rig, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: - Will the government be willing to implement real solutions, or will it continue to stall? It's an address. It is for Congressman Lajos Rig. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-03-69	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Current, growing immigration flows pose a number of problems. The number of illegal border crossings has reached peaks, and it has become clear that Fidesz cannot handle the situation. Unfortunately, the analysis shows that we are only at the beginning of the immigration wave. The situation that the government has not managed properly can lead to disaster in Hungary without exaggeration, as public safety and public administration are also at serious risk. [[15.20]] The government was unable to come forward with an effective solution and, as has been confirmed, the drawing up of the border fence was a waste of money: this cannot stop the flood of refugees, even though there is an extraordinary situation, so we need extraordinary, immediate action. In many cases, illegal immigrants in our country do not have identification documents, so we do not know where they came from, what health they are, whether they have been vaccinated or not. Of course, it sounds nice and nice to have to undergo all cross-border health examinations and, if necessary, receive appropriate vaccinations; in practice, however, only a small percentage of these tests are actually carried out. Due to increasing migration, there is an epidemiological risk if there is no epidemic risk at this time. Refugees crossing the border of Hungary have infectious diseases that do not occur in our country, and it must be taken into account that more than 100,000 migrants in our country come from other cultures and hygienic environments. The lack of control, the ill-managed situation, put public health safety at risk. The migrants cannot be completely isolated from the population of the country, as they use our public spaces, public transport and playgrounds in the same way. They do pose a serious public health risk to the population. The creation of transit zones with taxpayers' money has proved to be a mistake, and they do not provide a real solution. According to the data of the European Border Agency, most illegal border crossings take place on the territory of the European Union at the Hungarian border. Fortunately, Hungary is currently only a transit country for immigrants. Dear Minister, Dear Secretary of State, The fact that migrants applying for refugee status do not appear in compulsory inspections is a major problem. Only 5 percent of the 14 thousand asylum seekers required to be screened were able to do it. I ask the Honourable Secretary of State: how does the Government intend to act to reduce the epidemiological risks? You're not gonna sit here and do nothing until there's a possible risk of an epidemic, are you? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-03-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Minister of State, Bence Rétvári, gives the answer to the question of interpellation by the Member. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-09-03-71	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, At the moment, we can say that due to the extremely increased migration there is an epidemiological risk in Hungary, which is properly managed by the authorities, the ÁNTSZ and all other health services, but at the same time we can draw everyone's attention to the fact that objects, devices, clothing, contaminated with blood or body secretions left behind by border crossings should only be used in rubber gloves and, if possible, should not remain in the public area for long. Volunteers and civilians assisting migrants should also exercise caution, the use of thorough hand-washing, alcohol-rubber hand sanitizers and, where necessary, rubber gloves may be justified. As I said, there is no direct risk of an epidemic in Hungary, but the epidemiological risk was created because illegal immigrants came to Hungary from very distant parts of the world, which is an unusual and increased risk situation in Hungary. Obviously, with a large number of immigrations in all countries, the risk of an epidemic is also increasing. A very small proportion of illegal immigrants participate in the screenings, less than 10 percent, so the number of single-digits who appear in the health screenings required for them and in their interest and also in the interests of the entire Hungarian society and European citizens. Obviously, it would be much better for them to participate in a higher number. In the case of illegal immigrants arriving under different travel conditions, the bacterial flora is much higher than usual. In vehicles in which the SAO was able to take samples, where smugglers used to transport illegal immigrants, they obviously encountered a much higher bacterial flora than would normally be found on a BKV or a Volan bus or a car. It can be said that it is gastrointestinal and skin diseases that occur more often among immigrants. What is very important is that in many cases children lack compulsory vaccination. Obviously, for children in Hungary, this is submitted by the health institution system, as it is very important that these children also obtain immunity from infectious diseases and epidemics against which Hungarian children born here have already acquired protection. Inappropriate hygiene conditions, congestion, and other hygiene practices of illegal immigrants all present additional risks, which, of course, are taken into account by public authorities. If we look at the results of the screenings, we can say that in recent weeks we have done about 1300-1500 screenings per week, of course in the case of hepatitis B, hepatitis C, TB, HIV, syphilis, typhoid. We can see that, for example, in the presence of mites, we found positive results in 6.3 percent of the samples, 0.8 percent of the filters, 1.3 percent of the samples in the presence of lice, 0.1 percent of the filters, and 3 percent of the samples in other dermatological diseases, 0.2 percent of the screens were detected. It is therefore very important that everyone adheres to hygiene rules, and it is very important that these people cooperate in their own interests and in the interests of the majority society. As you can see, honourable Member, the government is constantly monitoring you and, in a different situation, you have implemented unconventional protective measures. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In the last few weeks, and in the next few weeks. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-03-72	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask the Member if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-03-73	I don't accept the answer. I'll be very quick and concise as to why I don't. Not too long ago, Commissioner, the Secretary of State remembers, the H5N1 avian influenza virus flew up, and if a plane landed in any country in the European Union, then the one who was coughing and feverish was immediately quarantined, even though we were talking about only one person. Already in 2010, at a European Conference on Migration Health, it was mentioned that illegal immigration poses an epidemiological risk. We also know that avian influenza swept through North African countries in 2006 resulted in the death of 60 people within a year. We do not want Hungarian citizens to have an infection that is unknown to us and we cannot handle it. I don't accept your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-03-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. As we have heard, the Member did not accept the Secretary of State's reply, so I respectfully ask whether you will accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 105 votes in favour, 25 votes against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources with the title "Family-friendly governance." Congresswoman Mónika Dunai has the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-09-03-75	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, For Fidesz and KDNP, children and families are the first. As opposed to us, the left during its governance continued a policy of tax increases and austerity. One of the major crimes against children's children was the removal of family tax relief and the elimination of preferential home-building opportunities. A large amount of money was drawn from the pockets of 1 million 700,000 families, and on top of that, families were driven into foreign exchange loans. Left-wing governance has made childbearing a poverty risk, the majority of parents unemployed, and the tax on working parents has doubled, and it has made it impossible for mothers with small children to work. During the 2010 change of government, we agreed to implement a family-friendly turnaround. The actions of Fidesz-KDNP are aimed at restoring the honor of family formation and childbearing, both from the financial and social side. [[15.30]] We are working to build a work-based and family-friendly society. Our long-term goals include halting population loss. It is very important to say that the demographic problems of the Hungarian nation must be solved not by immigrants, but by the birth of Hungarian children, so we must do everything we can to ensure that the desired children, the planned children, are born. Gradual expansion of family tax relief is a very important tool. According to the provision introduced from 2011, a maximum of HUF 10 000 per child in families with one and two children and a maximum of HUF 33 000 per child for three or more children could be deducted from personal income tax. This easing can now be seen in the family's wallets. From 2014 onwards, the benefit became enforceable in addition to the pension and health insurance contributions. That allowed him to stay with the families for 240 billion forints. In the past, left-wing governance also abolished social policy support. We brought this back to the system because we can see that this is very much needed. It is very necessary for young families to receive non-refundable support from HUF 500 000 to HUF 3 million 250 000 to create a new home. Dear Secretary of State, I'm asking you, what are the results of family-friendly governance so far? What additional measures will help Hungarian families raising children? Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-09-03-76	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. State Secretary Bence Rétvári answers the interpellation question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-09-03-77	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, Continuing with what you have said and reflected on it, we have to say that we can now see from the perspective of several years how various government measures have helped families in practice, and we can see that the introduction of the family-type tax system has helped a lot on the financial situation and opportunities of families with one child, two children and three children, but on 1 January 2014 when we extended the possibility of family-type taxation to contributions, and so small families have been able to make even more use of this tax relief if we look at the data of KSH afterwards, we can see that it has helped the three- and multi-child families in 14 more than the introduction of family-type tax relief itself for two or three years before. So we can see that the adoption of measures has constantly expanded the beneficiary circle. In the same way, we introduced the Gyed extra on 1 January 14, which could be used by a total of 47,000 parents, 29 thousand parents could work full-time with children or children after the age of one year, 18 thousand received care at the same time after several children, and we were talking about short-term children one after another; and nearly 400 higher education students, graduate graduates, students and graduates, provided additional financial opportunities. So this 47,000 parents can feel the gifts and benefits of the expanding family support system in their everyday lives. Also, I think that the introduction of compulsory kindergarten school for children from the age of 3 is extremely important for families, because in the future it can overcome potential disadvantages and learning difficulties even at the age of 3-4, so that when a person goes to school at the age of 6-7, he should not start at a disadvantage. Here, let's add that, of course, Hungarian families usually send their children to kindergarten for not only three years, but more than 60 percent, almost two thirds of them for four years, take the opportunity to spend another year in kindergarten, and then go to school, because they consider that this is better for school maturity. Extending the free children's meals, full free meals for children in kindergarten and kindergarten will start from 1 September this year. In addition to families with three or more children, in addition to permanently ill or disabled children and their siblings, it is now possible for those who have a per capita income of not more than 130 per cent of the minimum wage, in Hungarian it is not higher than HUF 89 408. Thus, the number of children who eat free of charge increases from 92 thousand to 320 thousand, while if we had counted the children who eat free in May and June this year, we would have received a number of 92 thousand, and now this year, in the school year starting this Tuesday, there are 320,000 in kindergartens, kindergartens and schools; this is an increase of 230 thousand people, of nearly a quarter million, who can get free meals in kindergartens and kindergartens. Also important help for families, they save 10-15 thousand forints with what the government has made in the field of textbooks as a change. The first three years were awarded free of charge to the textbooks on 1 September. Along with further discounts, we can talk about 800,000 schoolchildren. The Action Plan for the Protection of Jobs encourages the employment of mothers with small children to return to the labour market with a reduced contribution. This is a two-year social contribution tax exemption for the first hundred thousand forints of wages and a 50 percent discount for the third year. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And I could continue in a lot of four minutes. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-09-03-78	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Before I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai about the adoption, I ask you to stand up and welcome President János Áder, who is in the decorative box, and President Borut Pahor, who is present in our country at the official visit. [[The people in this room are standing up and applauding.]] who, in this way, would like to conduct successful negotiations in the interests of both countries, and to get to know Hungary a little bit, with Hungarian hospitality. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks. Előd Novák: Why only with Hungarian? There are other people living here, okay? Intruder from Jobbik's ranks:]] I will now give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai and ask her if she will accept the State Secretary's answer. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-09-03-79	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I accept Mr State Secretary's reply, because it turns out that because of the increasing volume of economic strength, we can help families raising children in more and more areas. It is very good to see, and I think that not only do I see this, but also Hungarian families see that our government is a family-friendly government. The family-friendly government is taking family-friendly measures, which not only in one area but also in almost all possible legislative proposals, and I hope that will continue to be the case in the future. It is also very important that Hungarian families, and we have seen this from Mr. State Secretary's response, can continue to count on the family-friendly measures of the Hungarian government [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] because if we support children, we support our future, our future together. Thank you again for the floor, and I have accepted the answer. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-09-03-80	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. It is now possible for Congressman Sallai R. Benedek to speak in order of business. Here you go, Congressman, you have two minutes to make a suggestion.
u2015-09-03-81	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Please don't disrespect me for standing up for myself. Chapter 82, Chapter 123 of the House Rules § 2 (2) and (3) determine the order of interpellation. Literally, this is the way the legislation reads:. The interpellation communicated cannot contain a new fact which has not been included in the written text of the interpellation. There is no need for a literal reading, and I have not told you any new facts in the interpellation. Paragraph 3 states that if the chair of the meeting detects or the interpell indicates that there is a difference in content between the interpellation submitted and the interpellation made, a statement may be made. [[L. Simon László: Don't judge the president. Ancient Novak: He may be in order! Just read it.]] and (3) determine the order of interpellation. Literally, this is the way the legislation reads:. The interpellation communicated cannot contain a new fact which has not been included in the written text of the interpellation. There is no need for a literal reading, and I have not told you any new facts in the interpellation. Paragraph 3 states that if the chair of the meeting detects or the interpell indicates that there is a difference in content between the interpellation submitted and the interpellation made, a statement may be made. (L. Simon László: Do not criticize the President. - The First of Novak: He may be in order! Read it!) I didn't make any changes in content. Please, if you'll do me the honor of listening in the future, I'll thank you. Thank you very much.
u2015-09-03-82	Thank you very much, that's why I asked. My experience was that he didn't match, he said something different than what was basically written, he put it differently. Content identification is not for me, but for the representative who chooses to interpellation. [[L. Simon László: Excuse me, I'm following Congressman.]] Minister, that is why I asked Minister Sándor Fazekas if he considered that this could be answered. Thank you very much. [[15.40]] Ladies and gentlemen, We've reached the end of the interpellation period. It's 3:39 p.m., and we're moving on to immediate questions. [[Several Members are leaving the Chamber.]] I would like to ask my fellow Members, who are now leaving the Chamber because of their important official task, to do so in such a way that they do not hinder those involved in the debate. Member Gergely Bárándy, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Attorney General's Office an immediate question:. Transparency International Report - what do you think, Mr Attorney General? Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-03-83	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, Transparency International's headquarters in Berlin have prepared country reports on the corruption risks of foreign investment, and according to the chapter on Hungary, legislation does not exclude the possibility of political influence of law enforcement in Hungary. The professional independence of the police and prosecutors who play a key role in the pursuit of bribery can be questioned. The Attorney General can exercise a dominant influence on investigations, almost unlimited command of subordinate prosecutors and bring or transfer any case to another prosecutor. In its 2012 resolution, the Venice Commission urged the establishment of a system of brakes and balances within the prosecutor's organisation in order to limit the power of the Attorney General. In its report published in July this year, GRECO considered that the unlimited extension of the term of office of the Attorney General gave the opportunity to influence the judiciary politically; I note that this was also criticised by Transparency's report. In addition to abolishing this rule, GRECO also proposed to the Hungarian Government to abolish the right of the Attorney General to remove individual cases without justification from the acting prosecutor and to entrust the investigation to another prosecutor. Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, You may wonder why I am asking you questions of legislative competence. I am doing this because, at the time, you stood in favour of the legislation currently in force and fully supported it before it was adopted. For you, by the way, the Public Prosecutor's Office Act is 11. Paragraph 2 (2) (g) gives you the right to propose, on the initiative of a law, amendment or repeal of a law. In the light of these reports, do you not consider this necessary, Your Honour? Thank you very much. In accordance with point (g) of paragraph 1, it has the right to propose, on the initiative of a law, amendments or annulments of a law. In the light of these reports, do you not consider this necessary, Your Honour? Thank you very much. (Applause in the lines of MSZP. )
u2015-09-03-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Attorney General Péter Polt, whom I respectfully welcome from this place. Here you go, Attorney General.
u2015-09-03-85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for asking. I was pleased to hear it, because it is finally an opportunity for me to report on a positive corruption report here in front of this House. This report, which should have been read in its original form, in fact shows Hungary in a positive light from that corruption point of view, because if we look at the fact that it puts us in line with countries such as France, Sweden, the Netherlands and New Zealand, then I think that we have nothing to be ashamed of, especially if we look at countries like Japan, Spain, Belgium or Ireland that have been put behind us. If we add that Hungary is the only member of this prestigious club in the whole region or in the former post-communist countries, which I have just listed, then I think we can be proud of that. In fact, in this report, Hungary appears in two respects in the original report. On the one hand, the report says that special training is needed for the investigative authorities, and on the other hand, there is indeed not a clear statement that the independence of the prosecution in Hungary, free from de facto political influence, is not proven or regulated, and serious concerns are raised in this respect in the Czech Republic and Portugal. What I do not understand is exactly what it is about, but I can say that the prosecution is independent in Hungary on the basis of legislation and is de facto acting without policy. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-09-03-86	Thank you very much, Mr. Attorney General. I now address Congressman Gergely Bárándy for a moment. Here you go.
u2015-09-03-87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, I, to be honest, am saddened by the fact that there are criticisms, and such strong criticisms from three relevant international organisations, then Mr. Attorney General does not say at Parliament that at least the prosecution will consider the relevance of these criticisms or, perhaps, their inability. All I asked was whether, in the light of the criticisms of the current legislation, Mr Attorney General did not consider it necessary that his previous position, according to which everything is good and everything is appropriate in the current legislation, should be reviewed a little bit and looked at whether these criticisms actually have a legal basis and otherwise have a different basis and that they might be able to make the prosecution work even better. I am truly sorry that Mr Attorney General only points out what is positive, that which is negative, he does not mention, not even that he might look at it and consider what could be changed in this regard. I hope, Mr. Attorney General, that you will do this later, if not in front of Parliament, but you will do it again. Thank you very much.
u2015-09-03-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Attorney General. Here you go.
u2015-09-03-89	Thank you, Mr. President. I have just mentioned that these are legislative issues, and we have also given both the Venice Commission and GRECO detailed answers to them. I believe that these answers are correct, that the regulation is adequate, that it is European, that it is a rule of law, and that the results are already present. If we look at the fact that between 2007 and 2010 we were able to prosecute 47-55 percent of such cases, which have begun, we are now permanently above 60 percent, then I can say that this regulation is a very positive picture. The D.A.'s office can work on this basis, work properly, and the results are coming in. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-09-03-90	Thank you very much, Mr. Attorney General. Dear Parliament, Congressman Tibor Bana, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Why do you tolerate it? It's an address. Because of his urgent public mission, Prime Minister János Lázár appointed a minister leading the Prime Minister's Office to respond. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he asks the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2015-09-03-91	Thank you, Mr President, for the weight of the question, I would like to wait for Prime Minister. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. János Lázár: Jobbik is becoming wiser.]]
u2015-09-03-92	Thank you very much. Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Z. Kárpát Dániel and István Apáti, representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Minister of Interior an immediate question:. Why is the migrant more important than the Hungarian taxpayer? It's an address. Minister Károly Kontra has appointed Secretary of State for the response. I respectfully ask the Members whether they accept the person who is responding. [[István Apáti stands up and nods.]] Congressmen indicate that they accept the identity of the responder. I would like to ask Mr István Apáti to present the immediate question. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-03-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, We asked written questions two weeks ago. These written questions were addressed not only to the Ministry of the Interior, but also to the Ministry of Human Resources, in which our aim was to develop a comparative analysis of how much Hungary spends today, how much the Hungarian state spends today on Hungarian taxpayers' money on an immigrant and how much, say, on an unemployed person or a sick person. We've come across shocking data. [[15.50]] It was shocking, however, what was found in the written answers, as it shows that an intruder who called the Hungarian laws "foot-to-foot" in the strictest sense of the word requires 4300 forints. 4300 forints on average, this is what it consumes every day, while we can spend 2300 forints on an unemployed person. This is what scares me more about the difference between hospital care and the care of intruders. It costs 1,300 forints to feed an immigrant a day, while we can spend 550 forints on a day's food for a hospital inpatient. So, please, we are now at a point where, because of international shackles, in the spirit of the sickly compliance with the EU, such an unfair situation has developed: immigrants are worth almost twice as much as the unemployed, and we spend almost three times as much on feeding them as a decent Hungarian citizen who has grown old in taxes and work, caring for and feeding decent Hungarian people. I think this situation is outrageous. On the one hand, you should demand that if you really were a tough and genuine national party, that the United States and Brussels pay all our costs in this regard, and take steps to prevent this figure from multiplying to a hundred billion-dollar scale. So I ask what you intend to do, whether you consider this situation to be fair, how, how you intend to change this outrageously unfair situation. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-03-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-09-03-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, First of all, I appeal to Congressman with the respectful request not to call an intruder a child who, as a child, enters Hungary's territory with his parents. [[István Apáti: They are! Eighty percent is male. The president's ringing the bell.]] They are asylum seekers, let us show respect in this regard; I believe that a humane approach and wording are appropriate in this regard. I'm just suggesting that you decide what you think. As regards the title of the immediate question, why is an immigrant more important than a Hungarian person, I would like to tell you and this House that it is not more important. Hungarian people obviously have an advantage in Hungary, but I would also like to say that Hungary's government is doing everything in its interest for the Hungarian people, representing their interests both at home and abroad. But Hungary's government also fulfills its obligations under the international treaty. Allow me to inform you and this House that the minimum level of care for asylum seekers is provided for in Directive 2013/33/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council, the so-called Reception Directive, Article 17 of the document lays down general rules on material reception conditions and health care. Therefore, Member States shall ensure that the material reception conditions are available to applicants at the time of our application for international protection and that the material reception conditions provide an adequate standard of living for applicants that guarantees their basic needs and protects their physical and mental health. Honourable Congressman, In response to written questions, we have explained in detail what kind of care we provide to these people, and I would like to say that we are doing this because of the obligation of our international treaty to be part of the EU. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-03-96	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. In return, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-03-97	Dear Secretary of State, Your leader didn't once tell you that you can choose who comes into your court. We couldn't choose the illegal arrivals, so they could be called invaders. I myself have applied to them the expression "the newcomer" because we cannot choose who is coming here. But what we see is that if we want to speak in the voice of respect, we expect this respect towards Hungarian citizens from the 83 percent man of combatable age who crosses our borders. So I don't want to sit on that liberal picture of only two or four-year-olds coming here, because that's not true. We would therefore like Hungary not to be in a military conflict with Libya, and we cannot be responsible for this, so somewhere the government should draw a ceiling either in terms of providing migrants or in terms of the ten billion that have been grouped here. The question arises, Mr. Secretary, where is this ceiling, and when are you finally going to stop registering, or if you fail to pass these people to their destination, then you will indeed close the Hungarian border, and do not let anyone pass it illegally. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-03-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. For a one-minute rejoinder, Secretary of State Károly Kontra has the floor.
u2015-09-03-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I trust that our package of laws to be negotiated tomorrow, the important parts of which are two-thirds laws and half laws, will provide adequate legal protection for the adoption of these 13 legislative proposals. I trust that physical protection will be achieved by building a temporary safety barrier, and I also hope that the living protection will be achieved as a result of the proper decisions of Parliament, and that this triple force, physical protection, legal protection and living protection will all contribute to Hungary's safety and prevent illegal acts that are being caused by illegal immigration today. I would like to draw attention to the fact that these laws serve the interests of Hungary, and I call on all parties in Parliament to support these proposals. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-03-100	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, notary of the Parliament, wants to ask the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: When does the government ensure equal opportunities for SMEs for funding sources? It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-09-03-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, At first glance, the Hungarian economy is improving, increasing exports, increasing employment. However, if we look behind the figures and talk to small and medium-sized enterprises, it turns out that export and GDP growth is almost exclusively due to a few multi-company companies, and employment figures are, to put it mildly, cosmetic. Based on feedback from entrepreneurs, the operating conditions of small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary continue to deteriorate, they are most affected by emigration, the fact that there are complete shortages from the simple shop seller to the butcher to the air conditioner. It is therefore a cardinal question of how small and medium-sized enterprises can access potential development resources, whether they have the opportunity to apply and develop. We see it's a lot less than it is for multinationals. A small Hungarian company can earn HUF 1-1.5 million for job creation, this is HUF 5-8 million for a multinational, but it can go up to HUF 30 million. Although it often takes only HUF 1-2 million to develop, to create a job, these small and medium-sized enterprises can only apply for larger projects, which is an unnecessary burden for them. And the application system is complex, multi-level, everyone is a sub-contractor, which is one of the reasons for corruption, and one of the workers' poverty, because the worker, who actually does the work at the end of the line, will only be left with the bone, before he ate the meat. For these reasons, I ask the Minister: in the case of job creation, why does the government give more support to multinationals than to Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises? Why are there no small-scale applications for small and medium-sized enterprises? Does the government wish to limit the number of sub-contracting levels so that the resources are allocated to those who actually do the work, and not to those who only take down the Shark, to various craftsmen? Thank you very much.
u2015-09-03-102	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2015-09-03-103	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, A very important issue has been mentioned by our fellow Member; he is no longer addressing for the first time the issue of the professional and effective delivery of EU funds, which I thank on behalf of the government. It is not a good two minutes to answer in detail, but I would like to ask the Parliament to put on the agenda the evaluation of the experience of the last seven years' development cycle, and when the new, about 133 applications start between September and the end of 2015, the government's most important goal is obviously to facilitate access. This applies in particular to small and medium-sized enterprises, i.e. small and medium-sized enterprises, because their greatest lesson in the last seven years is essentially in line with what you have said: it is very difficult to have access to money, bureaucratic obstacles are set up, in the procurement process the big ones are put first, the public procurement procedure allows the creation of subcontractors and, on the other hand, there are no dedicated resources that would put small entrepreneurs or medium-sized entrepreneurs in the position. [[16.00]] In NGM's GINOP programme for economic and innovation catching up, HUF 500 billion is already set aside to directly improve the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises and, on the other hand, most of the HUF 8000 billion available, HUF 2400-3000 billion are already going into business development, from which the majors were excluded. So small and medium-sized enterprises can apply in Hungary, but large businesses cannot receive EU money. This is so true that the 100 largest Hungarian businesses can no longer fit into it, because the European Union only accepted that 60 percent of the money goes to direct economic support if small and medium-sized people can apply. This has an international EU description of what is big, and a significant part of Hungarian businesses are already falling into it, so money will be added to the small ones out of necessity, necessity and expediency if they can call it off. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] This will be the next question. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-03-104	Thank you very much, Minister. The congresswoman has the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-09-03-105	I am, of course, pleased that the Minister has also recognised this chain of problems and is trying to change that. You mentioned the GINOP contest, but I would like to give you an example. Indeed, the GINOP applications help small and medium-sized enterprises within the framework of the Széchenyi 2020 programme. Among these, GINOP 1.2.2.15, GINOP 1.2.115: 5 forints for the first and 50 million for the second for the minimum amount of aid for asset investment. However, this is a problem for micro- and small companies, because a tender of HUF 2-3-4 million would be enough for them many times. Since there isn't, what can you do? It's either a premium, and it's basically a waste of money, or it's your chance not to apply. Therefore, it should be considered or reviewed in any case so that there are 1-2-3-4 million HUF applications. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Perhaps this will help micro- and small businesses to grow stronger.
u2015-09-03-106	Thank you very much. For a moment, the Minister has the right to reply. Here you go.
u2015-09-03-107	It is no coincidence that Parliament, in my view, has to deal with the lessons of the last seven years, and not just because it was the first time in the last 30-40-50 years that an amount of this volume could have been spent by the country. There are many lessons to be learned from this: on the one hand, what we used the money for, what it had to do with the country and how we used it and what techniques. It follows that your claims cover reality, and even now, when applications are being put out, we need a social debate. I would very much like all my fellow Members of Parliament to send the opinion that you have expressed here to the Prime Minister's Office, either to the wallet or directly to the Prime Minister's Office, because I consider it part of the social debate that Members of Parliament collect this information when meeting voters or in connection with the work in the constituency, since entrepreneurs usually go to them to complain. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Dr. István Tiba in the notary seat.]] At least as important is the public procurement law, which tries to put Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises in a position and tries to shorten the chain of subcontractors, ban the over-subcontracting chain, and force the successful tenderer to do the work himself. These steps together can put the sector in a better position, but I look forward to your initiatives, Congresswoman. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-03-108	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Thank you for your work so far, thank you for your cooperation. Congresswoman Mónika Dunai will be able to give the floor to Vice-President Tamás Sneider after the change takes place here in the pulpit. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]]
u2015-09-03-109	I welcome my fellow Members, and, as has already been said, Mónika Dunai, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-09-03-110	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The eradication of child poverty is one of the main objectives of Fidesz-KDNP, if not its main objective, so this year the municipal authorities also had the opportunity to help families in need with free summer meals. To this end, the central budget provided non-refundable support with an increase compared to last year, amounting to HUF 3 billion. This year, the conditions for granting aid have become more favourable for municipalities compared to the practice of the last few years, and the most disadvantaged municipalities have been able to obtain support for all children in need without self-reliance. Our aim in the future is to ensure that both a holiday meal and a child's meal in nursery, kindergarten and school can reach the wider range of children in need on as favourable terms as possible. To achieve this, support for children's meals increased by HUF 5 billion in 2015 to HUF 58 billion, thus doubling the amount of central budget support for children's meals between 2010 and 2015. We do not want to burden families raising children with the price of textbooks in the future, so we extend the free textbook supply in an ascending system: from 2017 all primary school students have access to free textbooks. This year, among primary schoolchildren, the free textbook is available for all children in Grades 1, 2 and 3, and higher school students are also supported on a social basis. Dear Secretary of State, How many children were helped by the summer meal program, and how many children receive free meals and textbooks this year? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-03-111	The Minister has appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to answer the question because of his urgent public mission. I'll ask the congresswoman if she'll accept her identity. It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-09-03-112	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, Philosophy change is very important, and I think that, in the context of textbooks, the government's position, which said that textbook support or free textbooks are no longer part of social assistance, that the textbook is not for the children of poor parents free of charge, but is part of the family support system, and that, in the emerging system, it gives the textbook to children of primary school age free of charge, as a kind of public service for all families with children. For now, in Grades 1, 2 and 3, but when you look at other discounts, you see that 58.7 percent of primary school students get free textbooks. I think it is very important that this expenditure, this burden so far - which meant about HUF 10-15 thousand for families at least at the start of each school year - has been reduced in recent years, as the price of textbooks has been reduced by 30 percent by the government, but it will also end sooner or later, and one part of the family support will be not only family taxation, not only the support for schooling, not only the family allowance, not only the graduate or other such tools, but also the free textbook itself. In 2013, 630,000 students received the textbook free of charge, and in 2014 the number of free textbook recipients increased to 667 thousand in 2014 and 700 thousand in 2015. I think this is an important milestone in the transformation of public education and the expansion of family-type tax incentives and benefits. The other question that the Member mentioned - I see that I can only get started now - is the issue of eating free summer children. We also made a record this summer, as we spent 360 million forints more on it than last year, and 600 million more than before last year: worth 3 billion forints in total [[The president's ringing the bell.]] We were able to provide free catering for 141 630 needy children in the summer. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-03-113	A one-minute rejoinder is due to the congresswoman.
u2015-09-03-114	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that the government is committed with us to improving the situation of children in need and to extending the provision of children's meals and extending the free textbook supply. We are pleased that a significant number of municipalities have been able to apply for free summer meals in the previous years, and it should be pointed out that we are extending the free textbook supply of children: from 2017 on, in fact, every primary school student can receive his textbooks free of charge, not on a social basis, but on a subject-law basis. Thank you very much for these measures. We wish everyone good work in the interests of families. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[16.10]]
u2015-09-03-115	I'll give the floor to the Secretary of State in return.
u2015-09-03-116	Thank you very much. Then I'd like to continue with the number of the summer social meals. This year, municipalities had to apply and we made the aid conditional on the number and proportion of children receiving child protection benefits. Thus, a less-favoured municipality received greater aid and an average municipality received more aid. For example, this year, a disadvantaged settlement received full support for 55% of children receiving regular child protection benefits. That's five percent more than last year, but that's 30 percent for an average settlement, which is a 5 percent increase compared to 25 percent last year. A total of 1485 municipalities submitted applications. The total demand for this was HUF 2 964 870 920, and every municipality received all the support at the last penny. There was not a single municipality this year whose aid application would not have been fulfilled by the government during the social summer meal. In addition, as we have already talked about today, the number of children eating free from 92,000 will increase from 1 September to 320,000. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-03-117	Dear Parliament, László Szakács, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question: It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr Répássy Róbert as Secretary of State to answer his urgent task. I ask Congressman if he accepts the Secretary of State's identity.
u2015-09-03-118	Thank you, Mr President, of course I do. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, After the adoption of the Quaestor Act, we have heard several statements. We have heard from representatives of the ruling party that everyone will be compensated within 90 days. We have heard that this law cannot now be implemented because there are two submissions before the Constitutional Court which have resulted in suspensive proceedings before the Constitutional Court. We heard Tállai, State Secretary, who said that this law cannot be implemented because BEVA does not receive credit or we have heard Zoltán Kovács, State Secretary for Communication, who is the Secretary of State for Communication VII. On the 30th of October, on ATV, he said that these lawyers were thinking, but it seems that there is a suspensive effect, and there is a suspensive effect of a decision of the Constitutional Court. Then I asked Minister Mihály Varga - to which the Ministry of Justice answered, Minister Trocsányi answered my question - that, if you know well that there is no suspensive effect of a Constitutional Court decision on a law which has been passed by Parliament, which has been declared and enforced in its manner, then why the representatives of the government refer to this, and in this connection I asked the Minister to hold a joint press conference, in order that even this government must comply with the laws adopted legally by Parliament. In view of all this, I ask the Secretary of State how he qualifies the statements made on this matter by his colleagues, the State Secretary of State, Tállai and Mr Zoltán Kovács, and I would ask Mr State Secretary what his professional position is to implement the law that this Parliament has legally adopted, it has been proclaimed, but the Constitutional Court is proceeding against him at the moment. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-09-03-119	I give the floor to Secretary Robert Répássy.
u2015-09-03-120	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, The Member has already asked these questions in writing, and the Minister of Justice replied on 13 August. I can only inform you now that the government has done everything in its power to provide a solution by law to remedy the situation as soon as possible to compensate the victims. Like you, the bill tabled by the Fidesz-KDNP fraction was voted by almost the whole House. Under this Act, the liability fund of the Quaestor victims is a legal person and is managed by the Board of Directors of the Investor Protection Fund within the meaning of the Act. The Quaestor Fund is an independent, independent entity that is not related to the government. The Ministry of Justice has no influence on how the provisions of the law are implemented. I would also like to inform you that, under the Hungarian National Bank Act, the MNB is an independent organisation and cannot ask or accept instructions from the government. It shall also be entitled exclusively to supervise the financial intermediary system. I stress that the Ministry of Justice and the Government have no direct influence on the MNB's oversight activities. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that pursuant to Article 7 (1) of the Fundamental Law, the Member of Parliament may address questions not only to the Minister but also to the President of the MNB in any matter of his duties, so that the President of the Hungarian National Bank can ask his questions directly. The payment by BEVA shall be made with the assistance of the paying agency, credit institution, which shall be entitled to do so. According to the decision of the Board of Directors of the Quaestor Fund, OTP Bank Plc. operates as a paying place, which the injured persons may visit in person. And the settlement of claims is known to be in progress. That's all I wanted to inform you of your question. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-03-121	I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2015-09-03-122	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, As you said, I asked you in writing, you replied in writing, and now you have read the same answer that I myself received on 13 August. I asked a lot more questions then, and only a part of it was answered. I've admitted that the Justice Department has answered my questions to NGM. And, of course, there are mistakes in it because you wrote that Quaestor had damaged their bonds on the market, that they could sell them on the bond market. No! By virtue of the law you have passed, these bonds have been waived in favour of the Quaestor Fund. But you went around my two questions, even though I know it's infinitely embarrassing for you. After all, your professional position as a lawyer to me, too, is that ex post norm control does not stop the implementation of the law, which is why I must ask you again, Mr Secretary: why are you not implementing this law? Thank you for your attention.
u2015-09-03-123	Mr. Secretary of State has the floor.
u2015-09-03-124	Honourable Congressman, I have tried to list to you precisely the organizations who must implement this law. I have listed the exact procedural order to be implemented, and I have also said that the Ministry of Justice or even the government cannot contribute to the implementation of the law, because these organisations are organisations independent of the government. So you're absolutely right in asking for the law to be enforced, but you can't claim on the government that this law is not being enforced because the government is not responsible for the implementation of the law. It is, of course, correct for us to confirm here in Parliament that this is a valid law, until the Constitutional Court has decided, the law must be implemented. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-03-125	Dear Parliament, Lajos Kepli, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: "The Fidesz government is a national security risk: is the German management coming to Paks? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-09-03-126	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, Not to debate, Minister, that you are the master of the barn and twisting of words here in Parliament, but I would like to ask you to put aside party political battles for a few minutes, because we both know, and here in Parliament we all know that ensuring safety and calm conditions are the most important task in the operation of a nuclear power plant. The same level of security risks as the refugee issue is posed by the way you have been dragging and delaying the provision of information, the exact information, on the issue which I am now asking you. This question concerns whether you wish to replace the management of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant with foreign managers. If you wish, have these managers been selected? If this has happened, when will they take their place, when will the current leadership be replaced? The other question group concerns what you expect from this measure, how the performance indicators of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant will improve. Whether there will be a group downsizing task for these possible new foreign managers, and what other consequences this will have for the Paksians, the workers of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant and the Hungarian population, given the significant location of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant in the Hungarian electricity generation. These questions are extremely important. You were again in Paks on Monday, where once again the locals didn't get answers to these questions, and even from unpleasant journalistic questions, it is said that you left the back exit. [[16.20]] Please don't do this now, but give me a straight answer to the questions I've asked you. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-09-03-127	I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2015-09-03-128	Thank you so much for the opportunity. I'm trying, as you said, to answer your question in an exact manner. Let's start with the end. I personally informed CEO Hamvas of his fate, face to face, what I did in the presence of a significant part of the management. I personally informed the three union leaders about the decision on the CEO, and I did the same to some 40 mayors, including the city of Paks. Our fellow Member in this Chamber was also a witness. The answer to your first question is yes, the government has made a decision, there will be a change in the person of the Paks management. Yes, the government has chosen the German manager who will be assigned to run the Paks Nuclear Power Plant within the shortest time limit. It is doing this because we believe that only the Paks Nuclear Power Plant can provide cheap electricity permanently for Hungary, so our aim is to ensure that the Paks Nuclear Power Plant is able to do so as efficiently and safely as possible under conditions that are as transparent as possible. In view of the fact that in Hungary the management of MOL and the management of Magyar Telekom, which are both huge companies - MOL's sales are twenty-seven times the size of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant - are also involved by foreign managers. I do not consider it unprecedented or even an example to be followed, that in the case of companies of Hungarian national interest, whether they are state-owned or privately owned, we should also use the expertise of foreign managers if this is necessary in the given situation. Our goal is to operate Paks I. transparently, to operate Paks I. rationally, to provide cheap electricity, and to prepare for Paks I. to become Paks II. Operator, which was also decided by the government. That's the answer for everyone who works there; they have a job for 60 years. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-09-03-129	I give the floor to the congressman for rejoinder.
u2015-09-03-130	Among the objectives, Minister mentioned transparent, rational operation and cheap electricity. Somehow he forgot about security. Because I think that a German management, a foreign management, cannot know this type of nuclear power plant in sufficient depth, can not know me as those who have been there for 30 years, since the nuclear power plant has been in operation, and know the technology to the last screw, and have operated it as safely as possible, and otherwise, there has not been a complaint about performance efficiency indicators. You played with the cards, so I'm gonna play with the cards. The only acceptable thing for Jobbik is that if there is a Hungarian management in such an establishment of national security importance, and safe operation is first and foremost, and the number required for this should not be risked by gambling, and the calmness of the workers there must be considered first and foremost, because it is in the interest of all of us and of Hungary as a whole. Thus, the Jobbik Hungary Movement can only imagine Hungarian management at the head of the nuclear power plant if it comes to the government. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-09-03-131	I give the floor to the Minister for rejoinder.
u2015-09-03-132	Thank you very much, fellow Member. If it would help the public whether Béla Kovács is a Hungarian person, if this simple question, whether your MEP is a Hungarian person, would help to resolve this simple question, for example, we could be a big secret [[István Apáti intervenes.]] We could be a great mystery. [[Lajos Kepli: Did you choose him?]] Its owners. With regard to the German manager, may I say to you, Congressman, security is the most important issue. The Paks Nuclear Power Plant is one of the most secure nuclear power plants in the world, and the one we're going to appoint in the CEO's chair didn't run a nuclear power plant with similar technology, but in a much larger scale. We will bring here one of the best, most powerful and powerful professionals in Europe. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-09-03-133	Dear Parliament, László Földi, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What kind of transformation is expected in higher education? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-09-03-134	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, Based on the Higher Education Strategy, which was adopted by the government in December 2014, the government has set the goal of transforming the higher education institution network, of establishing a system of institutions adapted to Hungary's spatial structure, which has an impact on quality improvement, which creates competition. A proposal on the transformation of state higher education institutions has been made. The aim of the change is to establish a more structured, efficient education institution with a focused training profile. The transformation concerns eight current higher education institutions and as a result of the transformation three new institutions will be created in the future, nine training places will be allocated to other institutions compared to the current state. The planned institution transformations will take place in three stages, in January 2016, in July 2016 and in July 2017 under the appropriate conditions. Dear Minister, On the basis of the above, I ask what are the benefits of the planned transformation of higher education institutions and the additional resources required by the transformation. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-09-03-135	I give the floor to Minister Zoltán Balog.
u2015-09-03-136	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, after a certain delay, we have finally managed to reach both the Rector's Conference and the representatives of student self-governments and economic operators there - thanks to the round table of higher education - in steps that serve not only the medium-term interests of Hungarian higher education, but also the interests of the country, in the Carpathian Basin outlook. The most important thing I think is that the institutional structure, as you have mentioned, is indeed adapted to the spatial structure of Hungary, and we will support, strengthen and, if necessary, create trainings that really lead to the localisation of the workforce and to the preservation of the cultural and civilisational world, which is a very important feature of the Hungarian countryside or must be in the future. You must have heard from the press conference of the Secretary of State that the creation of agricultural centres is a very important thing, so the strengthening of the University of Agricultural Sciences in Gödöllő, the development of a real research and teaching centre, the same goal we have with the University of Kaposvár. There are serious discussions about how we can strengthen the famous Hungarian medical education, not only in the country, but also in Europe and overseas, and the institutional mergers and transformations in which the centre of Eger-Gyöngyös, which we are talking about, and then the linking of the Corvinus with Gödöllő, the Kecskemét and the Szolnok College, will result in a much more efficient structure. Our goal is, this is the government's expectation that this will not go into excess resources. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-09-03-137	I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2015-09-03-138	Thank you for your answer, Minister. It's the first thing that calms me down, I live 30 kilometers to Szolnok, and the existence of the Szolnok College has already been in serious danger. I am convinced that with this transformation, for example, the Szolnok College will go in the right direction and will be able to cooperate well with Kecskemét in the future. What is crucial to me, for people living in rural areas, is that I feel the strengthening of rural universities and colleges in this transformation system, and I hope that this transformation will bring the expected results, for example, in agricultural education, but also in pedagogical training, that the government and Hungarian society expect from this transformation. I have great confidence in this, and I trust that future generations will really learn in a strengthened higher education institution. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-09-03-139	I give the floor to Minister for a one-minute rejoinder.
u2015-09-03-140	That is indeed our goal, and I would not put it so generally, although it would be good to say that everywhere. Simply reinforcements mean that there are things that need to be handed down, and there are things that are worth confirming and taking over. So it is indeed the previous policy to have everything everywhere, because of the seduction of students, at the expense of standards, and there are not so many students and there is no point in issuing diplomas at these levels. So we plan to confirm that the professional profile will be strengthened, and that is why there is something that goes elsewhere, but new forms of training and specialties can also come, which is why the profile cleaning was. [[16.30]] And what you have been talking about - the economy, the industry turning into colleges, and on the other hand - is one of the most important steps in which dual training in higher education has started. There is a particularly good echo here, many colleges and universities have signed up for dual training. Connecting local companies in the area with college students and such dual training is indeed the most forward-looking initiative in higher education at present. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-03-141	Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Will Flórián Farkas work for the payment of the Prime Minister's Commissioner's salary? It's an address. Prime Minister Zoltán Balog has appointed Minister to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask Congressman if he accepts the Minister's identity.
u2015-09-03-142	I'll take it.
u2015-09-03-143	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-09-03-144	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Minister, My question is whether the Prime Minister's Commissioner, who is still one of the government's responsibilities for catching up with the Roma, is working for his salary and who has previously presided over the National Roma Municipality. The Prime Minister's Commissioner who has wasted hundreds of millions of dollars to implement an otherwise important catch-up program. The Bridge is an EU project in the world of work, for which we can also legitimately doubt whether any meaningful work will be done in exchange for billions. How does the Prime Minister's Commissioner, who is idly watching the tens and hundreds of millions thrown out of the window for luxury events in Roma integration programmes, do his work? Forints 30 million in the program for the selection of the profession, and forints 10 million in the project for the production of the 1000 Roma women were partyed in a day, not to mention other extreme overspends. How much confidence can we have in the Prime Minister's Commissioner who has allowed the school of the National Roma Municipality in Szolnok to carry out irregularities and violations since 2012, leading to the probable closure of the institution? His maintenance president was himself before, until the end of 2014. What is the need for a prime minister who has a continuing abuse, a hundred million-dollar waste, a suspicion of corruption in his territory? We're not talking in the air, we're investigating various cases, prosecutors, government agencies, but the government itself is investigating. Why should the LMP, including Ákos Hadházy, do the work of the Prime Minister's Commissioner at all? Do we get 1 million HUF per month for this task or is it him? Dear Minister, Shouldn't Florian Farkas be exonerated with immediate effect and never let him near any task of Roma integration again? That's my question. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-03-145	I give the floor to Minister.
u2015-09-03-146	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, First of all, let me point out that before you consult with Jobbik on this matter, I would like to answer you. I'm glad this question is so popular in the better party. The thing is, I think this is the area where it's worth expressing and keeping populist overtones out, because you're mixing things up that don't belong together. First of all, there's a presumption of innocence, so let's wait for the tests. I myself, as you may personally have been convinced, consider it important that in all cases where there is suspicion that irregularities, perhaps crimes have occurred, I try to act with the utmost rigour, but there is a system of investigations, and it is worth waiting for the outcome of them. It brings here exactly a programme which is, by the way, one of the most successful programmes in terms of employment. You're confusing it with another, where, by the way, there have been real difficulties that we didn't see if people could actually connect to employment in the cooperative case. The "Women" programme is one of the most successful programmes in the European Union, not because it is said in Brussels, but because of the fact that hundreds of Roma women from this programme have received serious learning work. I can provide you with the statistics on where those who have completed these courses were placed. From this point of view, it is entirely new that we not only provide training, unnecessarily, but also provided training in such a way that we knew in advance that these people would find jobs if they successfully completed this programme. So what I'd like to ask you to do is, if you have any premonitions, take a closer look at which program you're talking about. Women are certainly not among the programs that would be unnecessary or would be wasteful to do so. I can answer your question of whether the Prime Minister's Commissioner will do his job. We're in constant professional contact with him, and all the work he's doing, the government needs. Obviously that's why you appointed him Prime Minister, which is why you asked him to do this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-03-147	Mr. Congressman has the opportunity to rejoinder.
u2015-09-03-148	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, I was talking about the project of the training of 1000 Roma women, and I highlighted an element when 10 million HUF was spent in the hall of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences on a single day at a reception. This is the one thing I called attention to, so I am talking about the project of the training of 1000 Roma women. And as to where we stand with the presumption of innocence: as I said, there are several investigations, but you know this much better than I do. I have in my hand a quote from the last massive investigation report of the Hungarian State Treasury, which states that they also used support for fictional students. It's about the Szolnok school. In the course of the application and the settlement, account was taken of non-educated pupils who ceased to be students at the end of the semester, or who were supposed to declare the termination of the student relationship by law. I think there are many things that make it more certain that there are problems here. What we miss is that Flórian Farkas himself, who is here at the moment, does not come to the public for clarification. Thank you.
u2015-09-03-149	I'll give the floor to the Minister in return.
u2015-09-03-150	The reason you know the house rules is that if you ask the Prime Minister something, it's hard enough to answer Flórian Farkas because he's not the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister can only be replaced by one minister. The fact that the congressman is present indicates that he has nothing to hide, but that he may be standing before your questions, even then... [[Foreman Novák: You can speak in the name of a personal attack!]] I don't even qualify. The example that you are saying proves that the public authorities are doing their job, because unfortunately, this type of shortcomings occurred not only in this school, but also in other public education institutions, not only last year, but also last year and ten years ago. The Hungarian Treasury is there, and there are many other areas of life to reveal these shortcomings and to remedy them. And by doing so, it indicates that the necessary checks that we have to carry out are being carried out and that the mistakes are being corrected. The Prime Minister's role and performance are in a different area. Now he is not the head of the National Roma Municipality, but it is his job to serve both the Prime Minister and the Government with the advice that is at least as important as before in the next period, and he is also doing so at a high level. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-03-151	Dear Parliament, Gábor Staudt, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. Only the privileged are entitled to public security and effective law enforcement? It's an address. Minister Károly Kontra has appointed Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I'm asking if you'll accept the Secretary of State's identity.
u2015-09-03-152	I accept, yes.
u2015-09-03-153	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-09-03-154	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, We have said several times between the walls of this House that Hungary's public safety lies in ruins, despite cosmetic statistics. White-collar economic crimes strike society in the same way as small, but more annoying, cases of mass crime. As long as corruption crimes involving the regent political set are often not prosecuted, everyday burglaries, thefts, the maximum cases are registered by the police, and real law enforcement is not really taking place. The only thing that irritates people more than above is the double standard, the fact that someone's position in public life makes them more and better at law enforcement. In 2013, there was a reason why the Prime Minister's daughter's missing cell phone case was dealt with by the National Bureau of Investigation's Department of Life Protection and dozens of detectives. According to the news, only 10 million forints could be spent on DNA tests. But let's forget about the past, let's deal with the present. A few days ago, word went out that the National Police Commissioner XIII. I'm going to a district apartment. This, on the one hand, is another proof of excellent public security, but on the other hand, it is an opportunity for the chief police to experience the real attitude of the police in such matters, we might think. But the illusions have to be dissipated, and in the press news, there were dozens of detectives on the case, they ran DNA tests, and in two days, they caught the unsubs. [[16.40]] The fact that the perpetrators are there is, of course, a joyful one, but it raises the question of whether this is a standard procedure for a simple burglary. Or is public security and effective law enforcement only for the privileged in Hungary? I would also like to ask the Secretary of State whether, in the future, he can expect a similar procedure, dozens of detectives, DNA tests for a burglary or theft, such as a retired widow living in a village in Borsod. I look forward to your substantive answer. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-09-03-155	I give the floor to Secretary Károly Kontra.
u2015-09-03-156	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to respond to the unfounded and false announcement in the first part of my reply that you said that Hungary's public security is in ruins. I would like to say that, thanks to the efforts of the last five years, which was an important part of our efforts to strengthen the police force, we have made strict laws and speeded up the legislation that promotes judicial case-law, well, thanks to this three-year effort, Hungarian people live in Hungary today more safely than before 2010. I can also give you a number on this: the number of known crimes decreased by 100,000 by the end of 2014. Of course, I also always say that we are not satisfied, we want even better numbers, we want even more security. That's why the police are working to make this happen. As far as the rest of your question is concerned, I would like to say that the police in all the settlements of Hungary are taking decisive action against all criminals in order to ensure the safety of life and property, and to restore public order and public security. Police are under the Fundamental Law and have a fixed duty to ensure the right of defence, prevent crimes and catch criminals. In the national cooperation programme, we have stated that public order and public security are based on the fact that no one is above the law. We also said this several times in the House between 2010-14. This constitutional principle is followed by the Hungarian authorities, including the police, in their daily work. Even though the honourable Member suggests that some people are more equal than equals, I would like to inform you that everyone before the law, I stress, is equal. Honourable Congressman, Your question as to whether the police can provide the same procedure in Borsod County, I confirm that the police are always trying to apprehend the perpetrator in every crime. Thank you very much.
u2015-09-03-157	I'll give the congressman the opportunity to rejoinder.
u2015-09-03-158	Thank you very much. Dear House, I think, Mr. Secretary, citizens can decide whether they feel safe. But what you can't explain to me is that if you break into an old widow in a village in Borsodi, say, there are dozens of detectives and DNA tests. Anyone who knows about this, or if you know about it, please indicate the specific case, because we haven't heard of it. By the way, when the telephone example was mentioned, they complained several times about the fact that when a new phone, the value of which is well over HUF 50,000, was stolen and reported with an invoice that the phone was new and was purchased for, say, more than HUF 100,000, the police would rate it to HUF 49,900, because this is the threshold for the violation. That way, the case can be planted immediately, and it doesn't appear in the statistics. These are the problems, Mr. Secretary of State, and that is not for us to say, but for the citizens. Thank you very much. [[Intruder from Jobbik's benches: That's right! Applause in the same place.]]
u2015-09-03-159	It's for the Secretary of State.
u2015-09-03-160	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I agree with you that citizens will decide whether public safety is improved, whether there is more security in Hungary than it was five years ago. The citizens made a decision on this on 6 April 2014, and I believe that this was part of their decision. And then they'll make a decision in 18. Otherwise, we are striving to take further measures to ensure public order, public security and the security of citizens. That's what we're trying to do, and that's what the authorities are trying to do. I would also like to make it clear, honourable Member, that the police do not apply double standards; they have not applied or will not apply in the future. In any case, he shall proceed in accordance with the law and shall carry out all investigative activities and use evidence to facilitate the detection of perpetrators, irrespective of the person of the victims and the cost of the proceedings. Honourable Member, I ask you and the Jobbik Group to support in the future the laws that are important for greater order and greater security. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: We've always supported him. A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-09-03-161	Dear Parliament, We're moving on to the time of questioning. In the framework of this, Imre Horváth, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:, How will the Honvéd Hospital be able to provide active hospital care for about 160,000 residents of Újpest and Rákospalota? It's an address. It's for the congressman.
u2015-09-03-162	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, On 24 August 2015, at the Károlyi Hospital in Újpest, it was announced at a staff meeting that active care would cease in the hospital from 1 November 2015. Instead, there will be a 200-bed rehabilitation department in the current buildings of the hospital. At the staff meeting, the staff of the hospital were reassured, as they were promised a 40% wage increase, but this measure failed to reassure the population of Újpest and Rákospalota, who were concerned about hospital care. I ask the Secretary of State whether there was a need to terminate active care, and what justified the termination. In addition, is it possible that the hospital will be able to provide outpatient care, possibly one day of surgery, outside of rehabilitation care? Can the state contribute to the development of the clinic and to the expansion of its tasks, so that healing activities in hospital departments can be partially replaced in the clinic, taking into account prevention considerations in particular? How will the Honvéd Hospital be able to solve active care on 65 beds transferred from Újpest Hospital? What about replacing the missing about a hundred beds? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2015-09-03-163	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-09-03-164	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The Member has not been a Member for relatively long, but he should have asked this question in 2007 by his own government. Even I was not a Member when the Károlyi Sándor Hospital lost a significant part of its active beds under the Socialist Government. I don't remember the Socialist Party being represented by you or the local congressman at that time. From then on, the hospital moved towards nursing and nursing services. It was a 2007 decision. Despite the continuous measures taken in recent years, however, the Károlyi Hospital suffered losses of tens of millions forints per month. From the force majeure framework of the State Health Care Center, if I look only at the previous year, 300 million HUF has been replaced, and only this year the hospital has received 80 million HUF support to improve the liquidity situation. On 3 August 2015, the so-called active health care activities of Károlyi Hospital will be taken over from 1 October by the Hungarian Defence Health Centre, the Honvéd Hospital in Hungarian. This measure will also ensure the safe care of the patients concerned in the long term, rationalise the care of the region, and eliminate the loss of management of Károlyi Hospital. With this change, none of the hospital's facilities will cease, all of them will continue to operate, and will perform chronic, rehabilitation and care tasks in every place where a hospital has been operating. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. A total of 20 hospitals currently provide active hospital care for its districts in various professions and levels of progressivity. So the active care of the two districts has not been provided exclusively by the Károlyi Sándor Hospital alone. So far, the patients have gone to more places. And by taking over the task, we trust that everyone can receive an even higher level of health care. Thank you very much.
u2015-09-03-165	Dear Parliament, István Szávay, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Who is responsible for the scandalous operation of the Unlimited Programme again this year, and when will the late applications be evaluated? It's an address. You're the word, Congressman.
u2015-09-03-166	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Almost a cliché is the promise of Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén in 2010, in particular, that there is still not enough funding to allow every seventh-grade student to travel abroad. In addition, this year, the previously intended framework for this purpose has been reduced. Ever since the program moved from Bethlen Gábor Fund to Human Resources Support Management in 2014, things have been getting hairier. Last year, school principals and educators were put in an impossible position by refusing to allocate the funds they received in time, so those who would have been hiking in the fall suggested that a state guarantee letter be given to tour operators, the hosts in Szeklerland, that they would pay at some point. [[16.50]] And this year, they refused to evaluate the proposals that had already been delayed for two months, thus freaking out the nerves of all those involved. Only 200 children from Kiskunhalas and its surroundings will remain at home, Mr. Secretary of State, even though they have collected the advance, but after 15 years they will not, for the first time in 15 years, go to Székelykeresztúr; 170 seventh-grade students will remain at home. And I find it not only outrageous, but also serious dilettantism, that a teacher in Kiskunhalas has recently been told to the Human Resources Manager at the customer service, that the thematic trips organized around the events of 1848-49 will also be moved to another time, because the money will not arrive in time. I ask you, Mr Secretary, when are you going to consider the proposals that have already been published for two months, compared to previous years, when the results will be. Will the government in any way compensate those who are not or are only circumstantial about the scandalous operation and omissions of the EMET? The final question, Mr State Secretary, is who or what is the reason why this whole programme works in such an amazing way. Who is responsible for slippages due to the publication and evaluation of applications? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Secretary of State, we demand the names and immediate discharge of those responsible. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-03-167	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-09-03-168	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I don't think there's a scandal to talk about where the congressman isn't, and there's not enough confusion. Obviously, you said there was a place where they've been traveling for 15 years to Transylvania, Highlands or some other area from some schools. Obviously, the Unlimited Programme is four years old, so obviously it is strange that it mentions a 15-year-old example. For only one application, the publisher postponed the publication of the notices, and this is the area of the secondary vocational school. That is precisely because there, you know, there was a maintenance change, and obviously the schools would have been more difficult to commit a month or two before the maintenance change. We thought that if we had the new maintenance school, only in the case of vocational secondary schools, we would write this application a little delayed and they would be able to make a commitment with the approval of the new maintenance school. But we have written it out to the others in the previous period, in the spring, precisely because this year, we hope to be able to allocate more resources. The success of the program has been shown so far that since 2010, more than 90 thousand Hungarian and cross-border students and teachers have been able to visit their communities and schools across borders or across borders. In the academic year 2014-15, 839 winners were awarded 1 billion HUF 25 million 413,000. Use of these funds 2015. - so this year - 30 June, and the beneficiary period of the new tendering period is now beginning from 1 September, starting the teaching. One billion HUF 227 million was available for 2015 applications, so 200 million more will be allocated in this academic year from 1 September this year than in the previous period, which ended on 30 June. This means that in this academic year, this year and the first half of next year more than 40,000 students and teachers from Hungary and across borders can participate in this. The preparation of the decision was made within the deadline and all beneficiaries will be informed after the Ministry's decision. Thank you very much.
u2015-09-03-169	Dear Parliament, Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior a question:. Will there be a solution to the LHH classification? It's an address. Mr László L. Simon, Minister of State, will answer the question on behalf of Mr János Lázár, who is responsible for the task and responsibility of the Prime Minister. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-09-03-170	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, On the basis of peaceful constructivity, I'd like to ask you a question. [[Defiance.]] So please do not consider it an attack to ask if there is any chance of a change in the classification of the most disadvantaged settlements, since, as can be seen from the written question, there are a number of settlements that have successfully participated in the Start Public Works Programme, according to KSH data, that have fallen out of the list of the most disadvantaged settlements. As a result of the current government regulation, it cannot participate in the 2016 Start Public Works Programme and some of these municipalities are able to participate in tenders under less favourable conditions, as the aid intensity has decreased. This is a simple statistical screw-up, since, in practice, the unemployed who are involved in the public works programme are only suspended from their status and cannot be regarded as permanently participating in the primary labour market, so obviously these municipalities have not significantly improved their situation. In Borsod County alone, more than 100 settlements are affected, and more than 62 are already in a negative position in 2016. Obviously, we believe that this could do something for the government at a statistical level, at the level of government regulations, if that is what it intends to do. I would like to know if the Prime Minister is aware of the problem. Do you intend to handle the situation? If so, when, how? How will it be communicated to village leaders? And can any positive government intentions be expected in this case? This would be a great help to those living there, and in many cases it would solve serious problems. In a settlement where I have had the pleasure to walk, within a year, up to 150 public workers will be excluded from the public work programme if the Start community work cannot be reopened. So a settlement can have a very serious impact on its life, and the time it takes to get back among the most disadvantaged is too much. I look forward to your cooperation and assistance in this matter. Thank you very much.
u2015-09-03-171	I give the floor to Secretary of State L. Simon László.
u2015-09-03-172	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for asking. I must inform you that, at the moment, 1230 municipalities of our 3155 settlements are considered to be beneficiary settlements under the current regulation. There are two reasons why a municipality should be a beneficiary under the legislation in force. One of the socio-economic and infrastructure-beneficiary settlements or, possibly, high unemployment settlements. This 1230 settlements, which we are talking about, is slightly more than a third of the total number of settlements, half of which, slightly more than half of them, are 662 settlements which, because of the addresses or opportunities we have just mentioned, qualify as beneficiaries in both respects. I do not think that the Member is arguing with me either, that it is important for the government to decide on the basis of public indicators and public figures to assess what we should be based on, what indicators we should take as a basis, what indicators we should take as a basis, who should actually be a beneficiary. In this respect, the role of the Hungarian Central Statistical Office is of particular importance. The fact that some settlements have been classified better is partly true, but we believe that by being citizens in disadvantaged settlements in the public work programme, we have also reduced the burden on settlements. I would like to point out that the resources that have been used to provide the unemployed will not be necessary in the future. Overall, I can say, honourable Member, that the Government is, of course, open to the possibility that, in the light of changing data, settlements should, if necessary, be excluded or included in this circle of beneficiaries, so that there will be an opportunity to remedy the problem that you have raised. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-09-03-173	Dear Parliament, Gábor Varga, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister of National Economy:. What is behind the continuous expansion of domestic retail? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-09-03-174	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Some were concerned about the decline in retail sales and job dismissals with the entry into force of Sunday's closure in March. According to the Central Statistical Office's short notice published at the end of August, these concerns are no longer justified. From the KSH's briefing, we can see that Hungary's retail trade has been expanding for two years. In June this year, retail sales increased by more than 6 percent compared to the same period of the previous year. [[17.00]] In addition, the volume of traffic in January-June 2015 also exceeded the same period of the previous year by more than 6 percent and an increase in the volume of food trade within the retail turnover of around 4.5 percent was observed in June 2015 compared to June 2015. It can therefore be concluded that the closing hours on Sunday have not caused a decrease in retail sales, but we have seen a steady increase in the last two years. According to today's news on the M1 news channel, Béla Glattfelder, Minister of State for Economic Control at the Ministry of National Economy, noted that more than 4400 people are working in retail and there are more than 5,500 new jobs available, so the Hungarian reforms are working. Dear Secretary of State, In this regard, I ask you: what is behind the continuing expansion of domestic retail? Is further growth of domestic retail sales expected this year? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-03-175	I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2015-09-03-176	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I think that, on the basis of the macro indicators and figures, Hungary has been doing really well over the last few years, from 2013 onwards, the government's decisions to boost, increase and increase economic growth will be fulfilled. Many macro indicators can be discussed as to why it is so much, why it is so much, good or bad for the country, so it can be understood that several groups in Parliament are doing this. But the fact that retail sales are growing gradually, and in Europe to the greatest extent, by about 6-7 percent, I think that is the indicator that cannot be taken away. It can't be taken away, because that means that people spend more, more people can spend more money, and that means that they're obviously trying to make their lives better by buying. How this additional resource is combined: on the one hand, economic growth generates additional income, making people pay more in the competitive sector. The same is the case in the state sphere, which was launched by the state with career models for educators, law enforcement workers and civil servants. The cost reduction has helped the population, which has left more than HUF 300 billion in their pockets, and the settlement of foreign currency loans, as there is no need to pay back so much now for foreign currency loans and it can be spent for consumption. But it should also be taken into account that, as I said, more people are spending, because there are 400 thousand more jobs than in 2010; obviously these people are getting more income and income, not aid. This is the trend the government would like to continue so that people can spend even more, even more, with even greater income. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-03-177	Dear Parliament, Anita Heringes, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. What is your position: you can make such a statement? You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-09-03-178	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, On the 6th of July 2015, President Novák in Parliament said: "Secretary of State, for us it does not matter whether the Carpathian Basin will be inhabited by Hungarians, or by the 13 Roma, Germans, Ukrainians, Romanians or even the Albanians in Kosovo, who are flooding us. We have to face this, and it doesn't matter whether Hungarians will be living in the Carpathian Basin. - end of quote. As a German ethnicity living in Hungary, I reject these exclusion and hateful sentences and words, which, in my opinion, cannot be said between the walls of Parliament. I can't listen to this quietly. I turned to you and László Fat in an open letter to draw your attention to what happened, but you didn't move your ears. Even Novák Elöd should understand that minorities and ethnic people living in Hungary see Hungary as their home, their home. My mother tongue is Hungarian, but I consider myself a Swabian. My home is Hungary. I think that Hungary and the Carpathian Basin are just as beautiful because they live together in many nationalities. That is why I am asking the Secretary of State: can such words be said in the walls of Parliament today? Is it okay to make you hate me? [[Interview from KDNP: Freedom of speech!]] Do the nationalities who live here have to be expelled from here, or do they not reproduce? Or what does the Jobbik think? My question is that if you remain silent, you will agree, and you will slowly become a faction with Jobbik, or you will raise your voice, and you will not allow such words to be spoken in the Hungarian Parliament. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-09-03-179	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-09-03-180	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, In addition to the fact that we obviously share the same view regarding the coexistence of nationalities, I also think that your speech to the Socialist Party is typically the encounter of three things: malice, job avoidance and superficiality. You have read these words of Novák Eldek [[Anita Heringes: I was sitting here, Mr. Secretary.]] But he didn't even notice - at the time it was just malice - that he would then read a little more about the report that there was a reaction on the part of the governing parties. I could read it, but I just don't think it's right for you to read your own words here, within the walls of Parliament. But from the looks of it, according to the record, there were 8 to 10 lines of reaction. [[Anita Heringes: They were very weak sentences, Mr. Secretary of State. Very weak sentences!]] right on the part of the ruling parties, and you're talking about why the ruling parties are silent about this with your eyes far away, and you're talking about it in a close voice. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and This was something that the MSZP fraction listened to on that day of the meeting, which was unacceptable to me and to us. He didn't ask for a word in order, he didn't say anything. You wrote an open letter after that, a little later, but here your fellow factions or your group leader, or any member of the faction leadership, didn't speak, and then you stand up and say that the governing parties are silent when the governing parties didn't listen, only the Socialist Party. I'm asking for this kind of malice, from history to XX. Socialist well-known since the beginning of the century, once communist attitude and rhetoric and the way in which he accuses his opponents [[Anita Beringes intervenes.]] which you miss to do and forget to your fellow Members [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] or to mention the opposition of government representatives when you speak on this subject, please stop doing so, which has put you in such a mid-party or small-party status [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: Let them keep doing it.]] [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] or mention the opposition of the representatives of the government when you talk about this subject, please stop doing so, which has put you in such a mid-party or small-party status (Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: Let them keep doing it!) I don't think it's worth taking this rhetoric any further. (Intercoms from the lines of the MSZP. ) Obviously, as we ask for the words of Elad Novák, we also ask for such accusations of the socialists. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. István Tukacs: Is that an answer? Anita Beringes: Congratulations! In the name of all the Swabians... that wasn't an answer! Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: Aren't you ashamed? Dr. Bence Rétvári: You can read the report! There's no match for a man who's read.]]
u2015-09-03-181	Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question with the title 1:0: Tbc-Hungary: halftime. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-09-03-182	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, A tiny, tiny sting, the work of the moment, it can hurt a lot, it swells, it turns red, and it is given to young children, and it is given to newborns in the first place: the so-called BCG vaccine. The BCG vaccination is exemplary in Hungary, and since 1954 all newborns have received it in Hungary, and with this vaccine we defend ourselves against TB, which was also called a Hungarian disease at the same time. For this reason - because the Hungarian system worked well - the fact that at present newborns in Hungary cannot be vaccinated with this vaccine is shocking, and there is a shortage. The deficit is the result of the fact that an international manufacturing company, a supplier, a Danish company cannot provide the right vaccine. In doing so, babies are not vaccinated, they are returned home and are brought to their homes without adequate protection from tuberculosis. It is important to know what the government is doing at this time, when such an important vaccination is missing, and the vaccination that protects against tuberculosis protects against TB against the large number of people infected with TB and is carried by large numbers of immigrants arriving in Hungary. So that's what we put our newborns through. It is absolutely important to deal with what the government is doing when it tries to forget its failures in health care and to resolve the situation in which the health government and the medical cabinet have just entered. So it is important to ask those questions and ask the Secretary of State, honestly [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: I'm always honest!]] In order to reassure people with families, newborns, children, you must answer how long this shortage of vaccines lasts, how long this situation lasts, what contractual obligations, responsibility can be exercised against the manufacturer, the distributor. Have you even considered and assessed the risk posed by illegal immigrants to such an unpopulated population? [[17.10]] What does the government intend to do in order to avoid a similar situation in the future, and not to bring our children to the fate of catching the forgotten TB and thus getting sick? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-03-183	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-09-03-184	Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, Mr President, Dear House, The lack of BCG vaccine is a global problem, and based on the World Health Organisation's information, we are facing a manufacturing problem, the solution of which is hampered by the fact that actual vaccine production is very lengthy, and this must also be preceded by appropriate quality assurance, and these problems have arisen due to the time-consuming nature of these problems. At the same time, of course, Hungary, and especially the OTH, the National Chief Medical Office, will do everything in their power to obtain the necessary amount of vaccine as soon as possible. At the same time, however, there is no particular problem at the time of the transition, as the planning has already been carried out in the past by considering that procurement difficulties could occur at any time. Hungary therefore has a reserve for a six-month period. Obviously, it is not possible to reserve and store these products for an unlimited period of time, but we have six months of this kind of extra time while the country still has reserves. Rescheduled vaccinations may also be one of the solutions if infants are given within a period that guarantees adequate efficacy, but at a different time. This does not, of course, affect families where there is a higher risk, since both newborns and family members are vaccinated, where necessary, on the basis of an epidemiological measure, and do so by redeploying stocks. Under the current contract, in which Hungary should be provided or these vaccines should be delivered to Hungary, the supplier must pay a penalty for late payment. If we quit in this situation, we could get him to pay the penalty, but that wouldn't make the purchase of the vaccines faster. Of course, we have examined the possibility of purchasing from producers outside the European Union, but Hungary has rejected this because of the higher level of security risk and has joined the European Union's vaccine procurement agreement, which can help us to solve this problem together as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-09-03-185	Dear Parliament, István Tukacs, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister of National Economy:. Where is the case of special economic zones in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-09-03-186	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. When there was a government meeting in our county last year, the issue of special economic zones came to the table, not with an exact name. According to the government, this would have been the cure for high unemployment in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County. Unfortunately, when the name of our county comes up, it is the first thing that everyone remembers, but especially those who suffer from job shortages. First, the affected people were waiting for precise regulation, later the exact circle of these zones was born, and the government named walks. It is just a side line that, with the exception of Nyíregyháza in the county, almost all walks are included in these very difficult areas. Since then, with the available discounts which I would not be able to detail here, it is clear that it has been long enough to measure the result of the special tax and aid rules specifically applied to the competition sector. It is necessary to deal with this because it is clear that our county will not be pulled out of the public sector, not by public work, and from this distress, but by creating as many jobs as possible, which will not only be created but will also become permanent in the county, even if these benefits or benefits are no longer available after a certain period of time. I thought that we should take a look at this situation because the hopes were great, so I would like to ask a very simple question in writing, and I would like to ask you, in this case, how many jobs have been created in relation to these benefits, and more importantly, how many of these jobs have remained permanently in the county. Mr. President, that's all I wanted. Thank you for the floor, thank you for the opportunity.
u2015-09-03-187	I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Czomba.
u2015-09-03-188	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I have good news. He does not remember it well, because it wasn't last year, but in 2011 there was this seat of government in Városnamény, and it may not be a coincidence that the Hungarian government announced the establishment of free business zones in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county, because it is indeed the case that all areas except one area belong to this group. As far as the specifics are concerned, every year we have doubled the resources available from the National Employment Fund for job-creating applications. Here it was 16 billion forints last time, and in terms of zones, 700 thousand forints more were given to those who created jobs here, obviously not by accident. 685 SMEs received nearly HUF 10 billion in funding between 2013 and 14 and I am talking about national data. In two years we contributed to the creation of 3850 new jobs in the zones, as far as Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county is concerned, I am obviously talking only about the competition sector. 38 winning companies created 441 new jobs out of HUF 1.2 billion in 2013, 72 companies created 665 jobs out of HUF 1.6 billion in 2014. These are specifically competitive jobs and see wonders, the most successful candidate was Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén and Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County for years in terms of free business zones. The Hungarian government has published a tender worth HUF 10 billion, and the tender is so successful in terms of zones that we seem to have to increase the funding to double, we will do so, and it is very important that it is possible to apply not only for the manufacturing industry, but also for the service sector without restrictions. This area needs to be expanded in the coming years, I think. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-09-03-189	Dear Parliament, Tibor Bana, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources: . Will the terminated classes be restored at the hospital in Körmend? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-09-03-190	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Three years ago, the second Orbán government terminated obstetric gynecology and active internal medicine in Körmend with a single stroke of pen, referring to a change of function and efficiency. Although the government propaganda machine seeks to distort reality, people living in the countryside, including the Vas County people, face the worsening health situation every day. Lajos Rig and I visited institutions in my narrower country in the summer. In the light of our experience, I find it incredibly cynical that you are talking about unprecedented improvements in health care. While in opposition they raised their voice against the devastating steps of their predecessors in the countryside, in recent years they have taken measures that are integral to the ranks of socialist-liberal governments. At the time, Jobbik protested the layoffs with all possible means. In addition to my speeches in Parliament, we organised a demonstration and collected signatures for the hospital in Körmend. The people in the region stood almost unanimously for the institution, five thousand signed the sheets in a very short period of time, but the government, which has been constantly conducting national consultations, ignored their views. During last year's campaign, the investments announced with a big banner were not made in the same way as they had promised. After that, we cannot expect much good, even though the restoration of the terminated classes would be essential in Körmenden. In connection with the ongoing renovations, pro-government politicians have promised to restore active internal medicine, and I can only trust that this is indeed the case. At the same time, obstetric gynecology is also clearly needed in the region. In order to ensure safe care for patients, the machinery park of the county's rescue stations should be extended and upgraded, but it would also be important to put the rescue station in a new, suitable building. Dear Secretary of State, In response to my last oral question on the subject, you were wrong. I hope you'll give me concrete answers this time. Will the terminated classes be restored to Körmend? Can we expect improvements on county rescue stations? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-03-191	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-09-03-192	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We didn't have time for an ambulance last time, so I'm gonna start from the end. As regards the development of the National Rescue Service, I inform you that the renewal of the Szentgotthárd rescue station is under way in the framework of an EU project in Vas county, the transfer and transfer takes place according to the planned schedule. In 2014, OMSZ handed over new ambulances and put them into service at Celldömölk, Körmenden, Sarvar, Bün, Répcelak and Szombathely station. [[17.20]] A new rescue station called the B-type rescue car has been set up, and in Szombathely an educational centre, i.e. a skill lab, will be established. As far as the issue of obstetrics is concerned, this may not be the basic problem in the field of health, as the year-on-year low birth rate in Körmenden and its area has been significantly lower than the year-on-year birth rate indicated by the professional college to maintain inpatient care. Within the framework of the EU project TIOP 2.2.6 currently being implemented, the integration of outpatient and inpatient care at the Körmend premises of Markusovszky Hospital is achieved. The investment will be spent more than HUF 1 billion of the project's cost of HUF 1.67 billion, the planned physical ending date is 31 March 2016. The project will be implemented in one place to manage the related professions, 24-hour emergency care, the reconstruction of the chronic internal medicine department, the surgical department, and the remodeling and renovation of the operating room and the establishment of a one-day surgery room. In addition, modern machines and instruments will be purchased, including the provision of diagnostic, therapeutic and surgical backgrounds, the digitisation of X-rays, the acquisition of new ultrasound machines for the purpose of remote diagnostic purposes in order to ensure a working and on-call care. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So it's a lot of improvements that we can tell you here in the hospital in Körmend. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-09-03-193	Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman President Novak asked for a two-minute word, so I'll give him two minutes for personal involvement. You have the floor.
u2015-09-03-194	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I could even consider the separation competition that, following my speech two months ago, was formed here in Parliament today between the politicians of the MSZP and Fidesz, but I must clearly reject it, because of personal involvement, that in my speech on 6 July anything would have been hateful, as Anita Heringes said. Even in that quote, the quote from his context, there was no hater that he quoted from me, while he left out from within the quote, for example, a fact-finding, honest half sentence that more immigrants have come to our country than the number of children are born, and we think that yes, this is something that we have to face. Yeah, that's all I wanted to draw attention to in my not-so-hate speech, which was called "Growing Up Who Covers the Troubles." In the words of Gyula Illyés, I tried to ask the government to give up the popular success propaganda, because the demographic state of Hungarians is critical, and I pointed out this in my not-so-hating speech by saying that the recent population policy comparison of the EU Member States published by the KSH shows that only 3 countries are prevented from living births per thousand inhabitants, and we have fallen back in every ranking. So there was no hate in my speech, I must reject this, and I am very pleased that, if either he or any other Hungarian minority citizen has a plural identity, and if so, someone has not only German, not only Romanian, not Ukrainian, not only Gypsy, but also, let us say, a Hungarian identity. This is perfectly natural, but it must also be accounted for, with which the Constitutional Judge Béla Hell also took account, who dared to say, I dared to say here in Parliament that the population explosion of Gypsyism cannot mask the catastrophic population loss of our country, and it is certainly not hateful in itself. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-03-195	Dear Parliament, Question time is over. The 1995 CXVII on personal income tax follows. Act XCII of 2003 on the Rules of Taxation. a joint debate on a proposal to amend law. Independent motion by Mr Gabriella Selmeczi, Pál Völner, Erik Bánki, Mónika Dunai T/5986. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that according to the House Rules adopted, 15 minutes for the opening speech, 15 minutes for the representative of the Government, 15 minutes for the legislative committee, 7 minutes for the presentation of the minority opinion, a total of 30-30 minutes for the speakers of the political groups, 8 minutes for the speech of the independent Members, 10 minutes for the closing speech. Dear Parliament, In this debate, I will give the floor first to Erik Bánki, the author of the bill.
u2015-09-03-196	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the bill before you is that, according to the legislation in force, it is necessary from 1 January 2016 to use the family tax allowance, i.e. to indicate the tax identification mark of the beneficiary children in the tax return, so that a tax identification mark should be provided to all children for whom the benefit is sought by the parents. So the purpose of our bill is to extend the deadline of 1 January 2016 by one year. Before that date, of course, in the absence of a tax identification mark, it is sufficient to provide dependents, the natural identity and address of the beneficiary dependants. At present, the tax authority of the State represents the tax identification mark on its own behalf for children born after 31 December 2005. Our proposal requires that, in order to reduce the administrative burden on the tax authority, it is sufficient until the end of next year to automatically train the tax identification mark of citizens under the age of 25 who have not already had it. Ladies and Gentlemen, It is clear that the Hungarian government is committed to improving the situation of Hungarian families, increasing their living conditions, living conditions and living standards. Hungarian reforms work, ladies and gentlemen. The European Union is affected by extremely unfavourable demographic developments. To reverse these processes, it is essential to further strengthen the strongest and most effective unit of society, the family. This purpose was also served by the family tax incentives proposed and approved by the Hungarian Government and supported by the Hungarian Parliament, which have left some HUF 800 billion in the pocket of Hungarian families over the past four years. Only last year, over 900 thousand parents validated the family tax incentives that the Hungarian Parliament has accepted on the proposal of the Hungarian Government in recent years. Thanks to the transformation of the tax system, nearly HUF 185 billion more income remained in the household of some 900 thousand families in 2013. At the same time, it is important to mention that 270 thousand low-income families with more children were not yet able to make full use of the opportunities provided by the tax relief last year, so another amendment was needed in order for this 270 000 family to be able to make full use of this tax relief. Family taxation is one of the most important pillars of the Hungarian economic model, and therefore the government and the Fidesz- and KDNP fraction are committed to extending family benefit systems in the next period. To this end, it has now become available to those with the lowest income to benefit from the benefits, even through the deductibility of the benefit from the contributions. This meant a net wage and income reduction of HUF 16,000 for a family earning a minimum wage and raising three children. From 2016 onwards, the tax relief of families with two children will increase from the current HUF 10,000 to HUF 12,500, and then double in total over the next three years. This measure may increase the annual income of a family with two children by up to HUF 60,000 over the coming years. By further reducing personal income tax, the salary of all employees, or more than 4 million people, will increase, and by increasing the family tax reduction, more money will be left over by 350 thousand families with two children during the previous period. At the annual level of parents with average earnings, the two measures leave up to HUF 144,000 in total, and the parents with minimum wage HUF 85 thousand in excess of the amount of money, which can be distributed in the family register. The population figures that have come to light show that Hungary is on the right track, and Hungarian reforms also work well in this area. Most children have been born in Hungary since 2010 as a result of family policy measures. Since 1990 the number of births in Hungary has not been as high as in 2014. Ladies and Gentlemen, This brings us to Austria in an international comparison. More and more children can be born in Hungary thanks to the fact that there is a family-friendly tax relief system in Hungary, with which we are setting an example for the rest of the European Union. [[17 .30]] Ladies and Gentlemen, The government is therefore committed to extending this system of discounts, the Fidesz and KDNP faction, my fellow Members who have tabled the bill, together, are committed to making it easier, with administrative burden reduction and, in the case of the government apparatus and the tax administration, more time to prepare themselves for this technical background, so I ask you to support the bill before you with your votes. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-03-197	Dear Parliament, I'll ask who the government wants to answer. Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, indicates that you wish to comment. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-09-03-198	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for making such an extensive presentation of the bill, and in addition to highlighting the importance of family tax relief, which is becoming more operational in our society and affects more and more families, especially as a result of the introduction of single-key personal income tax and the extension of the benefits you have also mentioned. This bill is not about this, it is likely to mean a reduction in administration for hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families, because I believe that in the last year, the expectation that family tax benefits can only be used after 1 January 2016 is that the tax identification mark on the document is also provided to the tax authority. There is now a double system, on the one hand, using the tax identification mark and, on the other, on the other hand, a family tax reduction can be applied without it. The last year's legislation would have introduced that after 1 January 2016 only the tax identification mark could be used to enforce this tax relief. This currently affects 800 thousand taxable persons under the age of 18 and, depending on how many parents use or wish to benefit from tax relief for 800 thousand children, should have asked the tax authority for this tax identification mark separately. It's a pointless bureaucracy, extra administration, time, energy. This was noted in time by some members of the Fidesz fraction, and that is why it submitted this bill. This bill also ensures that the system is uniform after 1 January 2017, but parents and adults do not have to carry out more administration, since the Tax Act obliges the tax authority to train the tax identification mark, number and send it to the person concerned by 30 November 2016. Thus, it will not constitute an additional administration for the parties concerned, but a single tax administration register will be in place from 2017, and it will apply only in the possession of the tax identification mark. I think this is a short but more useful and better bill. At the meeting of the Legislative Committee, the members of the committee unanimously supported the adoption of the bill. I am very confident that the Parliament will do the same. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-03-199	The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented. I give the floor to Imre Vejkey, rapporteur of the Legislative Committee.
u2015-09-03-200	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby inform the Honourable Parliament that today the Legislative Committee has negotiated T/5986 by way of derogation from house rules. CXVII of 1995 on personal income tax Act XCII of 2003 on the Rules of Taxation. In the absence of a proposal for amendment to the Act, the committee unanimously adopted and supported the bill, in the form submitted, by 29 votes, with zero abstentions and zero abstentions. On the basis of the above, I would ask my fellow Members to support the T/5986. Bill No. 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-03-201	Dear Parliament, The speeches will now take place, which will be 30-30 minutes per faction, for the independent Members, 8 minutes. In the first round of speeches, the lead speakers will present the group's position within a 15-minute time frame. In this context, I give the floor to Mihály Witzmann, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-09-03-202	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It is certainly well known to all of you that the European Union often suffers from extremely negative demographic developments despite economic development. One might think that this should not be the case, but we can see that in developed countries there are fewer young children, fewer and fewer children, and there are more and more of them in the elderly. Continuous population loss can not only anticipate social, but also increasingly serious economic and sustainability problems over time. An effective family support system, the strengthening of families, is essential to halt or reverse these negative trends. The second Orbán government introduced the so-called single-key family taxation, which, by realizing the problem, introduced the so-called one-key family taxation as one of its first measures, which puts middle-class families, which are the backbone of society, in a significantly more favourable position than before. Thanks to the measure, from 2011 around 900 thousand parents were able to apply a total tax reduction of HUF 160 billion per year. As a result, the income of large families increased by more than 20 percent. Thanks to the tax relief, in the last four years there has been a total of HUF 800 billion left in the pockets of the families, as Mr. Secretary of State said. In the years before 2010, socialist governments, unfortunately, turned their backs on Hungarian families, Hungarian people, and child-bearing people, which resulted in the fact that in all cases families with children who had children pulled the short straw, because they were simply impoverished and indebted. The family tax relief for one and two children has been taken away, preferential housing loans have been abolished, and we can also remember that the 32 percent of personal income tax was exactly double the current 16 percent. On the other hand, it is safe to say today that family taxation introduced by the civil government is one of the key pillars of the Hungarian economic model after 2010, and we can also say that it has become the most important pillar. Therefore, the government remains committed to further broadening and increasing the system of strengthening families. Another justification for this intention was the decision to make the benefit available to those with the lowest income, so that it could be deducted from the various contributions, health and pension contributions. Following the adoption of the 2016 budget, it is safe to say that next year the tax relief of families with two children will increase from the current HUF 10 000 to HUF 12 500, and then, in the next three years, the current level will be doubled to approximately HUF 20 thousand. As a result, the annual income of families with two children may continue to increase. And, as Mr Erik Bánki mentioned earlier, the latest figures show that Hungary is really on the right track with a family-friendly economic policy with a new perspective. Family policy measures have also led to the birth of most of the children in our country last year since 2010. It is also important to point out that the fertility rate in Hungary has not been as high for nearly 20 years as it was last year, 2014. By the way, if we look at the countries with the good economy that I have just mentioned, it is in any case glad that we have caught up with the data of our western neighbor, Austria. Today, the continuous increase in births is clearly visible, and perhaps this is also the reason why the government's family policy measures are being given increasing attention not only within our borders but also outside our borders in Europe. [[17.40]] On the basis of the above, it is clear that the continuation of the family support system provided by the family tax allowance is of paramount importance, and it could be said that it is a fundamental task of national strategy. That is why I believe it is necessary to adopt the amendment to the law before us, which has been described in detail before us by Mr Bánki Erik, which, moreover, makes it possible to extend the deadline for triggering the tax identification mark by one year. I would like to ask my fellow Members, after a constructive debate, to support the adoption of the bill with their votes, so that we can help the families of Hungary and the families with children again. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-03-203	I give the floor to Nándor Gúr, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2015-09-03-204	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the last five years, now the sixth year, we have seen a lot of times between Parliament's walls that laws, draft laws or various proposals come before this House without being sufficiently prepared, and the continuation of which is the need to redefine things in its process, to make corrections, to make adjustments that affect the lives of hundreds of thousands of people. This is what this is all about, because of your actions, this story now affects about 800 to 900 thousand young people. The law must necessarily be amended in the context of the correction, which, if it did not happen, would in practice fall and fall away from the subsidies, family benefits, contributions that should be holders of. We're on trial, said the Prime Minister and his ministers at the time. Well, it seems to me that this is all true, here in Parliament, from your point of view, you are really trying to run this country on trial. I listened with interest to the thoughts of the representatives of the governing parties and the authors of the draft law. I also welcomed you with interest because in the introductory thoughts of my fellow Member Erik Bánki, the kind of process that seems to be working again in Hungary as if for the benefit of the people. So he said that Hungarian reforms work. Yes, my colleague Erik Bánki, the Hungarian reforms work on the posters, and the Hungarian reforms work on the paid media - that is what we see. [[Mrs. Loránt Violin: East Underpass!]] But you know, when you're on the road, when you're driving your car, you look away, and you're happy to see a gentleman, looking at you, telling you that the minimum wage is rising again - you know, the minimum wage is rising again, it's your reform, it's your reform - I suggest you start thinking about it. I am just mentioning this as an example, and it is also closely linked to the subject, just because it is okay to start analysing the evolution of the minimum wage, let us say, in the last six years. It is okay if you know that this minimum wage was, say, 73 500 HUF gross in 2010, now 105 thousand HUF gross. It seems like it's about huge growth. The net value of this was over HUF 60 200 in 2010, now HUF 68 775. It seems to be 13 to 14 percent more, but you will never tell anyone anywhere that there was a 19 to 20 percent inflation between 2010 and 2015. If we count it down, this minimum wage is worth 5 thousand forints less - it's worth 5 thousand forints less! - than people could have handled in 2010. In other words, if you go to the store to buy with today's minimum wage, you can buy goods worth 5 thousand HUF less. Now, this is your reform, and this is the kind of reform this country doesn't want. It does not require that these be repeated again and that similar things be brought to life. This is not what he requires, for it is not for his own good, it is for his own good, but for his own good. I have to say that, of course, the policy is always about sticking to the averages, they like to talk about average gross wages, many of the averages, but they never talk about how this affects the vast majority of people working in Hungary and how it affects the more affluent minority. I'm sure you know, for example, that besides this minimum wage, which is worth 5 thousand forints less now, after the sixth year, slowly than in 2010, employers and employees together have to pay 32-33,000 forints more. You know, so there's a beneficiary, that's the government, not the employee, not the employer. Now, I have only done this brief look-out through an example to give a little picture of how reforms, how the Hungarian reforms work, to those who are willing to think about what you write out on the posters and all that is actually confirmed. And then I didn't agree, and I don't agree with other platforms, that the public workers... - with whom they are so eager to try to improve the statistics, my fellow Member of Tallas, Mr Secretary of State said that there are 400 thousand more employees in Hungary. He knows very well that about half of it is the increase in the number of people employed in the public sector. He also knows that more than 100,000 people come from being driven away from this country, forced to do work outside the borders of Hungary - as long as they can, as long as the Schengen processes are the way I do not want to go about migration, immigration, emigration and other issues. All I want to do for you is to put the situation of the people who are able to work today at risk with all their activities. You are not interested in the fate of these people, according to my judgment. You are interested in trying and painting a picture that, unlike today's Hungarian reality, can deceive people who do not really think about it. Returning to this bill itself, you have two important passes. One is to have the tax identification mark, because otherwise, in 2016 the original conditions would not allow those affected to obtain the family benefits they are entitled to. I would like to point out that I am not sure that the deadline that gives a year's lauf in this regard will solve all the problems. A lot of question marks could be put on, and I'll give you some examples to match. You know, I'm sure you'll also remember that in this draft law, you've formulated that by November 2016 you have to do virtually everything that needs to be done in this regard, and then you can get these so-called certificates or the figures and registration numbers needed for the tax credit. If there is a problem, there is a problem, and in November 2016 the government will face the fact that it has not been able to do everything according to expectations, then it will be a month, a month in December to make a correction again, because, as I said, Hungary has been operating on trial since you have been ruling. Then do you think this one month will be enough for that? And do you think that if you can't make this correction in a month's time, then people will be pleased when they can't get family tax benefits in January 2017? Or the questions could be asked in a way that is all right, but how will people get to them? Will you mail it to them? Where do you have to go for it? There's nothing to know about how and how they imagine all of this. But if we do not want to ask formal questions in this regard, we can also ask questions about content. Technically, I want to show that in terms of between 800 and 900 thousand young people - the 2006 date here is interesting, because after that the automatic register was established - who were born before 2006 and who had not yet reached the age of 25 years, there is this kind of situation, the corrections must be made here. [[17.50]] I think that there should be greater security in this regard in order not to face the same problem in a year's time. And if some of the ideas about the family tax reduction have to be formulated, then one of the fundamental problems in your five-year governance has always been that it was the most needy ones who had less access to those resources, obviously due to tax incentives, tax incentives, than the wealthier ones. I think that, in contrast to, or rather, what concerns the drawing of tax incentives, it would also have been worth thinking about in relation to family allowances; this is the category for which you did not add anything in five or six years, a single penny. With regard to their creed, their philosophy, I see you - and forgive me if you think I'm wrong, but the experience proves that - you're not interested in the very people who are living their lives in a dreadfully difficult situation in this country. To put it quite simply, I must say, and I do not say it, that Secretary of State Tállai obviously knows and knows this as well as I do, because I use the data of the NAV, and if he is prepared, if he is not prepared for any change, he should be aware of this. [[Defiance in the ranks of Fidesz.]] So, knowing the data of the NAV, one third of the people working in Hungary today, i.e. one third, earn minimum wage or less. You know, when we talk about family tax relief, the possibility of drawing, these are important issues, but then I would like to remind you that it is important to have a discount, it is important to cut costs of all kinds, but the most important is wages. The most important thing is that people have as much money as possible with the highest purchasing power and that as many people as possible and the use of these funds can, of course, be free to think and take care of the needs of family and children. Not in the way you do, in order to make people as vulnerable as possible. I am talking about the minimum wage and the incomes below it, I am not saying, the National Tax and Customs Office, to many people - one and a half million people - we are talking about cornering these people. These people are gaining less and less resources as they advance in time. In fact, you have even blessed this minimum wage - which, as I said, was worth HUF 5000 more in 2010 than in this period - with a tax burden, you have added 16 percent personal income tax. You know, of course, my fellow Member has said here that through the reorganized personal income tax system, a situation has been brought to life where the financial use of nearly HUF 500 billion, while excluding tax revenue, is called up to 74 percent through the top two decylis, people in the payment category, and the vast majority of these are otherwise childless. So, if we are talking about family tax incentives, we should also consider how other measures that, whether through the personal income tax system or not, are going to be implemented through the payment of VAT through many others, how and how they are affected. Your actions benefit the wealthy, whether through the personal income tax system or from the other side, from the VAT, and from the general sales tax, the poorer, because the general sales tax, you know, is basically a tax on the poor, and you maintain a world record tax, 27 percent tax in this respect. But to avoid the accusation that I am talking about something else, I have only responded to the statements of representatives, so I finish my thoughts by saying that, together with all this, as I said, 800-900 thousand young people are affected by the settlement of this issue, and for young people, the possibility of accessing various family tax incentives can happen by making these corrections, so the Hungarian Socialist Party will express its supportive vote in this story, but I could not do that in relation to the speeches of its representatives I cannot tell you these reactions. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-09-03-205	Dear Parliament, KDNP is not present, so I now give the floor to Novak Elõk, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-09-03-206	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Jobbik supports the correction of this government error, which is the aim of this proposal, since a 2014 amendment needs to be corrected now, after it looks like the task is not met by the deadline. Although I would add that the correction of this problem is not elegant, it is happening that the ministerial and State Secretary seats are completely empty at the moment, as there is a record number of State Secretarys of the current Orbán government, and while we are considering the government's responsibility, it is not elegant that none of these are present. [[Defiance and interruptions from the Fidesz ranks: Here it is. András Tállai sitting next to Erik Bánki: Here I am.]] However, we would like to ask who is responsible for this omission, that the tax cards have not been completed by the deadline. We have seen this before, and if we are talking about tax returns in this proposal, for example, we note that if a Hungarian citizen does not submit his tax return by deadline, then he can expect a harsh fine. On the other hand, if, as far as the deadline is concerned, in violation of the laws in the state apparatus, a person commits some kind of violation of the law, it seems that there is no consequence. Well, that's that, even if it's not a legal form of political crime, because it's illegal, yet the current government of Fidesz shows no consequences, that they're responding to a law violation by amending the law by pushing the deadline. And it's not the first time we've seen this. In the case of Tibor Navracsics, I have often urged him to respond to my repeated requests by pushing the deadline, when he failed to comply with an extremely urgent proposal, rather, to implement our very, very late proposal. At the time, it was a review of the luxuries for communist medals. Although this is only a fraction of the question of communist luxury pensions, we can only talk about a few thousand forints pension bonus, but in the case of thousands of people; in the case of Red Star medals or armed combat he was partisan, and after dozens of similar medals he went to the point until the Parliament finally accepted our proposal with Mária Wittner and my better fellow Members. However, we could still see and it seems that Tibor Navracsics set a precedent, that he did not implement the law on time, that he did not review it, that he played for extinction, as in the case of Béla Biszku, we can see from the authorities, from the prosecutor's office, from the government of Fidesz, and that the law was finally changed on several occasions. So not only would a minister resign, he would at least admit his responsibility, even if he didn't resign, so he would give or apologize at some level, but rather, in a cynical way, change the law as if it were the most natural way to comply with the laws. I think that this attitude is wrong, and they set a very bad example for the Hungarian people, who are obviously forced to abide by the laws all the time. The proposal itself can and must be a solution in the present situation, since hundreds of thousands of families could be in great trouble, since from January only children with tax and social contributions with a tax identification mark and such a card can benefit from the benefit of the family. According to the article of July 31, hvg.hu, 800,000 children do not currently have tax identifiers. One of the Hungarian Nemzet Online news reports this summer that the representatives of large families consider the mandatory tax identifier unnecessary and bureaucratic. So the problem here is not only that they have failed to comply with the law, but there is also a problem with the whole bureaucratic system. And indeed, I think that if a real state reform really wanted to cut red tape, it would have to face how to simplify this current system. Whether the family support system can be made simple, transparent, because we see that this is extremely complex in international comparison. [[18.00]] I am proud to carry with me the very funny identity card of my one-year-old child, but I do not believe that this is absolutely justified. And when we face problems that, in the absence of this amendment, the paper form would not qualify for family tax relief from January to 800 000 children, it should be said that the various state resources were not well allocated here. When, at present, they are concerned that according to the latest ministerial decision, 59 000 immigrants would be granted work permits, so when they are busy with them, I really think that the problems of the Hungarian people should be dealt with and, where appropriate, the paperwork and other organisation necessary for their work. However, it is not certain that an infant - let me join the large families in another, more worrying way - would really need a classic tax card in his life, as we can see that 1 million people have already gone to the West, working in Hungary, not dependents, but those who would support the elderly in Hungary, and while I know that a tax card may have several functions, we have to face the problem of making Hungary an unlivable country from which more and more people are leaving even because they cannot find work, and therefore they are not planning to tax in Hungary. This is what Ferenc Gyurcsány specifically encouraged the Hungarian people - it is possible to go away from here, who do not like the system - but there is no more cynicism in Orbán than that, who says that young people are going to try their luck and let them go, because I think it is even more useful in the national economy. On the other hand, Jobbik wants to make sure they get along at home. In fact, the present proposal is just a technical amendment to give family benefits, but there is also a major obstacle that cannot be resolved with such a simple amendment of the law, and that is that family tax incentives - now, in a broader sense, family benefits - cannot be used by lower earners. Not yet, even since contributions have been extended not only to tax benefits but also to family benefits in a broader sense. Therefore, Jobbik has urged, urged, in its electoral program, because we did not sell a bag cat, we represent it, and we ask you once again to extend it to more tax types and contributions than we currently do, because the storehouse of taxes and contributions is extremely rich, , thanks to the current government and the previous Orbán government. If we were to extend it to several other taxes and contributions, from which we could write it down, we would still not help with this child's livelihood, and even encourage the social card precisely because we do not want to have a cash family support system, but we would still be able to make up for the various taxes and contributions, these billions that you always put in as a total figure on paper, which, in fact, many of you, especially those with multiple children, three, four or five children, cannot actually use. It is no wonder that the large families - at least that much has appeared - dared to say so much, so much they dared to say that they considered the mandatory tax identification to be bureaucratic, unnecessary. It must also be borne in mind that, despite the current proposal, the State tax authority, for children born after 31 December 2005, represents the tax identification mark on its own initiative, does not appear to be quite the case. In principle, it may be true, but in fact, they were up to tax identification, but they didn't send a tax card in several cases, that's quite certain. For example, the leader of Jobbik's parliamentary legislative working group had both children after 2006, yet none of them received a tax card, and we hear this from many other places. So I think that sometimes even what was supposed to be fulfilled is not being fulfilled. Not to mention the deadline that was good for you to face at least a little earlier, because you don't walk like Tibor Navracsics, who after the expired deadline wasn't ashamed to apologize instead of making a law amendment and thus to remedy his violation. However, I think that instead of these bad examples, we should think ahead and face a much bigger problem than this small legal problem, that they cannot avail themselves of the discount of 99 thousand forints, for example, in the case of a family with three children. This family discount could only be used if they had a higher or higher income, which, let's face it, during the administration of Fidesz, because the public work programme has moved towards extremely low wages, there is no chance in this sense, so let us at least extend this family discount to several other taxes, contributions, as laid down in Jobbik's programme, so that we can actually make use of the amounts that are usually dealt with by government propaganda, whether it is a billboard or any other paid advertisement or parliamentary sham. Therefore, we ask that these proposals be taken into account, not only by legislative amendment, but also by adopting Jobbik's proposals for a more substantive amendment. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-03-207	I'll ask if anyone from the LMP wants to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] He doesn't want to. Dear Parliament, Now, I'd like to give the floor to the first congressman to speak, if that were the case, but I don't see anyone at the moment. If there is no further intention to comment, the debate will be closed and I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to comment. [[Erik Bánki: Yes.]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-09-03-208	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank both and all three groups who have spoken in all four debates for their support for the bill we have tabled, both the Fidesz Group and the KDNP Group, the MSZP and the Jobbik Group. It is clear that there are opposition issues, and there have been reservations, which have been expressed by my fellow Members. My fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, has gone a long way from this bill, but in the parliamentary debate we are used to this, so this is not a unique phenomenon. I would like to make one thing clear: Mr President, he said that Fidesz wants to make people vulnerable. I would like to draw the Member's attention to the fact that, under the governance of the Hungarian Socialist Party, a number of measures have been taken in the case of families raising children, which, rather than helping them, have put them at a particular disadvantage. At the time, the current income tax rate was double that of family incomes, taking away family tax relief for one and two children, and eliminating preferential housing loans. On the other hand, Fidesz, as I said in the introduction, has taken a number of measures since 2010, more specifically on the government's proposal, supported by the Fidesz and KDNP fractions in Parliament, which have constantly broadened the range of family tax incentives, and we have now reached the point of more than HUF 800 billion remaining in the pocket of Hungarian families. So I think it doesn't cover reality at all. Mr President Novak mentioned that the problems of Hungarian people should be addressed. I think that in the last five years, the government has demonstrated that it is dealing specifically with the problems of Hungarian people, because today has been a topic, among other things, the process of eliminating and removing foreign currency loans during the interpellation. I think that by introducing the first of the Member States of the European Union - I am obviously talking about those Member States which are not members of the euro area, so they do not have a single euro currency, so that is the first of these countries - the Hungarian Government introduced measures that enabled fair settlement or accountability of banks and, on the other hand, the forinting of foreign currency loans has been resolved, and the last step of this is what the government is planning to do by the end of the year in the case of car loans and consumer loans. In addition, there have obviously been a number of steps concerning the tax system, the system of family tax incentives and the creation of homes, which dealt specifically with the problems of Hungarian people. Obviously, the government could have done even more, but I think that according to its potential and the burdeny capacity of the budget, it has done more than it had room for manoeuvre. I thank all my fellow Members for their support. I trust that this will be reflected in the votes. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[18.10]]
u2015-09-03-209	Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place tomorrow. This brings us to the end of today's agenda. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. First of all, Mr Sallai R. Benedek spoke after the agenda with the title of "Learnings of Proverbs 15.6." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-09-03-210	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am very sad that the Hungarian Parliament does not really deal with this land-privatization robbery, and it can only be done in the form of one such question. Even today, when the issue comes up, we are talking about how it will be achieved, how the bidding will be, who will have access to it and who will not, and I think we should basically talk about whether this should be done, whether there is any point in the government doing this and taking action on this matter. The whole theoretical point of this is whether this should be done, because everyone feels that a family, a child, has lived effectively, if he has increased something that he inherited and contributed, and it is really the careless child who squanders his inheritance. This proverb, the 15.6, says that the supply in his true house is increasing, his evil income is decreasing. And unfortunately, this is what the Hungarian government is doing now: it is destroying the heritage of the Hungarian nation, the heritage of Hungarian society, and it is using this plan to implement it. Let me quote two sentences from a former Secretary of State of the Fidesz administration. I would first like to make it clear that the agricultural land is a national property, a common property of all of us, whose management we have entrusted to our state only to serve the common good through its wise use. Without us, without the authority of the actual owners, you can't alienate him, you can't use him to increase private assets, and if you do, we can take back not only our trust, but our property. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. These are the words of József Ángyán, former State Secretary, who basically plowed the Hungarian countryside before 2010 and for the next two years, with these ideas, which I think contributed little to the support of Fidesz in rural areas, and now Fidesz spits on all these principles when he wants to do this robbery and the property of the state so he wants to play it out. I don't really feel like it's a problem if the government backs off. Basically, the magosos wholesalers, the agricultural chamber representing them, the FM, even more representative of them, would like to do this, because this pressure is coming from the home circle. But the government and the Fidesz fraction would have the opportunity to stop it. And we say this not with evil intentions, but as a suggestion, because Proverbs 13.1 says that the wise boy is glad if he again, the presumptuous one, does not listen to the reproof. This is what the government is doing now, when any person or anyone who tells us the problems with the problems of selling the land, about its negative effects in the countryside, apparently does not want to hear this. The government renounces its right to allow any other government to serve rural development by means of property policy in the coming periods, and with these public lands it can contribute to maintaining rural jobs and thereby enriching rural life. But not only do they put farmers living there in an impossible position with this step, who have now been left out of the land lease system, but also the municipalities. All these areas belong to a Hungarian government, and many municipalities suffer from the fact that they cannot contribute to a better public work programme or to a local initiative as a help with local agricultural land. As a result, social cooperatives and a number of Start Public Works programmes are not able to create the problem of this lack of land. The municipalities did not participate in this, nor did anyone comment on it, and, meanwhile, the government representatives say that this was done on a farmer's demand, while it was clear to the written question that the government had asked its own little Magos about how it should be dealt with. Obviously, that's the sin that's gonna burn on the government, that if they do that, it's a lot more than we see at first. The problem is not only that they are going to bypass the Parliament, but because if this decision is to be challenged as a government decree in the Constitutional Court, it may take a year and a half to exercise the right acquired in good faith and a large part of the land will be removed forever from the property of the Hungarian State. And that is obviously what must not be allowed, and that is why it would be good to open up the dialogue within Parliament on whether, overall, this step is useful and not about methods. This government now does not function in Hungarian society as if it wanted to serve the aims of society. Obviously, it seems increasingly to represent the interests of a narrower medium. The proverb 17.25 also says that the foolish son is annoyed by his father and bitterness to his birth mother. This is what today's Hungarian government is like for Hungarian society. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[István Ikotity applauds.]]
u2015-09-03-211	The government is no longer here, so you can't expect an answer from them now. To speak after the next agenda, Congressman István Ikotity came forward:. What is the government planning to do with the home care system? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-09-03-212	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, I would like to talk about a subject that, I believe, does not get enough attention, even though it affects the lives of tens of thousands of families. As we know, on March 1, the relief system was transformed, leaving the care system for home care intact. The eligibility criteria and the amounts of the premium and special care fee with the basic amount due to the right of the person concerned have not changed, and the benefits remain determined by the district office. Local authorities may provide a fee for care of equity as a municipal aid, which they must provide for themselves, as before. Since the State has withdrawn from the financing of a number of social benefits, placing a greater burden on the already resource-stricken municipalities, the municipalities have less room for manoeuvre than before to provide a fair care fee to those who care for their elderly, persistently ill family members. Of course, there is no data on how many municipalities decided in February to abolish this form of supply from March and not to continue to provide it as municipal aid. In the past, the number of people receiving treatment could have reached tens of thousands, and this number must have fallen. Those who have been withdrawn may have been in a very difficult situation: they have ceased health insurance, so they have to pay the monthly health service contribution of HUF 6930. Moreover, their time spent in nursing is no longer included in the period of service at the pension. This is particularly unfair because those who care for their sick, elderly relatives actually carry out the task of the state and relieve the public institution system. The relatives of patients with various psychiatric, neurological diseases, dementia, or end-stage cancer care for their family members without any support. If the municipality is in a better financial position and is able to compensate for this, the aid is still very, very small, virtually equal to the amount of the aid. It's 23 600 forints. The normative for institutional care is nearly three times that, i.e. the imbalance is enormous, even though it is best for sick people in need of care to stay at home in a family environment. And for the relatives, who want to give a full, dignified life to their sick family members, it would obviously be best not to have home care as a guarantee of poverty and not to have a multi-annual or even decade-long break from the labour market. These are just as true of a disabled relative as those who care for their elderly, sick family members. Obviously, the task taken over from the State should be properly recognised according to the need for care. For example, in Austria, there is a system in which the care fee is set according to the number of hours of care needs, i.e. the amount of time to be with the patient. The support is not for the nurse, but for the nurse, who can not only use the help of a close relative, but for example, the neighbor may care for the sick family member while the relatives work. Such a system could prevent the poverty of such families, their permanent separation from the labour market, and it could also provide dignified lives and home care for those in need of care. However, the most important thing in Hungary would be to finally recognize the decision makers, home care is not only cheaper but also more humane. The system of home care fees should be more differentiated according to the need for care. Support can be given to a neighbor or a close friend. The equity care fee, which can be determined by the current municipal authority, should be incorporated into the provision of subject-law, be it a single system. [[18.20]] In addition, close - to - home services help relatives to reconcile work and home care. I think that it is high time to address this issue, especially those who have fallen from the equity care fee. I hope that the government will take steps in this direction as soon as possible. By the way, I sincerely hope that we will have an answer to our question. Thank you for your attention and your word.
u2015-09-03-213	Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát applied for the next speech after the next agenda: You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-09-03-214	Mr President, Dear House, We did not expect large commercial media to report in a vast range that Jobbik, following a demonstration, had created a border lock on the outside of Röszke yesterday, in the railway rail area where not only the alleged fence was not finished on the deadline, but also the magical nursery, so this is not even the minimum obstacle that, with a thicker winter coat, can easily be pushed down so easily that it can be passed without a problem. At the same time, Jobbik was able to create, after a few hundred-person demonstration, a situation under which migrants could not enter the territory of Hungary in an illegal manner, with the provision of a few dozen police officers. We have proved so much that even by using such minimal forces, we would be able to close the border section that Jobbik believes should not allow illegal migrants who are not entitled to enter Hungary. We are talking about newcomers who may not be in a public health disaster in Hungary, but in the hope of a generous supply here, more and more people are on the road. So in the world of smartphones, every bag of food delivered to them, every slice of chocolate and every generous form of supply sends the message back to the points of departure that more people should come, and preferably come this way, because it is easy to come by. Jobbik, on the other hand, wants to counterattack, precisely because Hungary's current government caresss, quote, migrants and deals with them more than simply Hungarian taxpayers. And we have to support these amazing disproportions with a few figures, because my colleague István Apáti and I have submitted written questions two or three weeks ago in order to finally learn concrete figures about how much of the Hungarian taxpayers' money - without asking them - is being used to provide, guide migrants here, to caress them without exaggerating, where appropriate, when we are talking about making TV rooms look good, or about a special diet that is just what they need, to create an amazing situation. It turned out that not only the HUF 4300 a day that Hungary spends on a migrant from taxpayers' money, but if we compare it with the amount of HUF 2 000 for a today unemployed person, or if we compare the amount of HUF 1300 spent on food for a migrant - a daily amount - with just over HUF 500 for the Hungarian people in the hospital, we are confronted with some amazing disproportionateities that are insane and call for immediate intervention. We could say that, of course, refugees coming from far away from a difficult situation should open the gates, help and Jobbik would open a single door: for those coming from the real persecution it would provide very short temporary help in the form of food, drink and perhaps very short accommodation. But while we see that 83 percent of the arrivals are men of over 18 but under 40 years of age, many of them are combat-trained, combatable men, and while we see that hundreds of thousands of these people arrive here without obstacles, a year or two ago, respect for the exception, but they stabbed and threatened Hungarian people in Debrecen, and then, armed, they broke out of the hostel there, and now they're invading the Hungary whose image we've known before, we can say that this completely conscious, planned and organized, ultimately designed for an exchange of people, must be stopped immediately, and its responsibilities should also be named. And if it comes to how much it costs us, how many billion forints or ten billion forints, that we supply migrants in Hungary, who do not want to come here, are staying here unduly, then we need to see that this bill should not be paid by the Hungarian taxpayers, that this account should be paid by the United States of America, which has caused some of the problems, and the other part of the central area of the European Union which has reached the point of dealing with the problem, has sent Europe to a point where its self-defense reflexes have essentially ceased, and there is no common European solution to this issue. Therefore, Jobbik sees as the only solution the hermetic closure of borders, the fact that those who arrive illegally should still not be in Hungary, as they should not have been before. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-03-215	Speaking after the next agenda, Mr Lajos Kepli came forward:. We are not looking for a new country - we need immediate action in water management! It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-09-03-216	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, the number of Members who have been reduced has been reduced. In particular, my honourable right-wing fellow Members. Here, in the further context of the migrant issue, we are also talking about what is causing migration, and, of course, if we look further away, to the further future, we can see that this is only the beginning, because in the coming decades, processes are taking place in the world that could generate a wave of migrations of much greater size and magnitude than we are now. Of course, we can mention two main reasons: one is the result of the provision of natural resources and geopolitical games over this, and the other is the syndrome called climate change, as we might call it, in which whole areas or entire countries will become uninhabitable over the next decades, either because of a shortage of drinking water or a lack of agricultural conditions, or simply because the weather becomes so extreme that it will be impossible to ensure normal housing conditions. Unfortunately, we can see the signs of this already today, and we do not need to travel to remote continents, we can also experience this in Hungary. In Hungary, the process in which the Danube-Tisza has to do with it and the sandback is becoming more and more dry, the water disappears from it, so we can say that it is becoming deserted, as the experts use this term for it. In the past decades, none of the successive governments have been able to do anything about it, and various plans have been made from government to government, from which nothing has finally come to pass, and we can now see that sooner or later, if we do not do something, we will have to look for a new country in decades, as Hungary, as well as the Carpathian Basin, will dry up and become uninhabitable. In quite extreme cases, this situation may also occur, as signs of this already appear today. Today, however, we still have the opportunity to act, we have the opportunity to stop this process with a reasonable water management programme and action plan, to hold our waters here in the Carpathian Basin when there is a shortage of water, and we can take it down when too much is pouring into the Carpathian Basin, either in the form of precipitation or in the form of the waters of our incoming rivers. So all we have to do to do is think rationally and add that we finally have a meaningful dialogue to protect our waters. At this moment, water management is characterised by unreasonable measures, not only in Hungary but worldwide, which cause quite extreme situations, as there are parts of the world where people drink water that is almost literally the same as their daily need for liquids, and we wash our toilets with expensive drinking water, which is a visible or tangible example of waste in so-called developed countries - completely unnecessary waste, by the way, because we produce this clean drinking water with a lot of energy - and in decades or centuries we will certainly miss this drinking water, and then we would certainly wonder why we have such wasted solutions. [[18.30]] Today, however, it is enough to get to the point where we can hold back our fresh water, how we can store the waters of our rivers and lakes for a more limited period of time. For example, if we look at how many million cubic meters of water we can drop from Lake Balaton every year through the Sió Canal, which is pure water of almost drinking water quality and lead it out of the country through the Danube, then we can also think about what to do with this water, whether we could build reservoirs along the Sió Canal, south of Lake Balaton, as has already been formulated in many people, or by raising the maximum water level in the Balaton Medre. But it's not just about Lake Balaton, it's also about the other river levels in Hungary. In this connection Jobbik has already stated in the plan of the Seven Leaders exactly what Hungary's vision of the future of water management is, how it could resolve the whole situation in a complex way by expanding our rivers, increasing the size of irrigable agricultural areas and introducing agricultural crops that are adapted to this. I would ask that you have a government representative or a member of the government to study these documents. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and let's finally sit down and really talk about what is in Hungary's interest so that we don't have to look for a new country in decades and do what we have to do in the field of water management. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-09-03-217	For the record, I would like to correct or clarify Mr Lajos Kepli. In addition to ten better Members of Parliament, an MSZP Member of Parliament is still here in the building of the Parliament, here he is in the Chamber. Mr President Novák has now applied for a final statement after the agenda:. According to the order of the Supreme Court of Justice in 2010, Jobbik cannot be silenced because of the use of the word "Gypsy Crime," which he is obliged to state is also called Public Media. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-09-03-218	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you also for correctly reading the title of my speech, which can also be found on Parliament's website. However, it is not natural, since the last time I tried to speak with this title, István Hiller, as the head of the board, restricted my right to speak. He tried to force me not to use that word, but it is a matter of principle that we do, especially in relation to such a subject, not to describe this word, but to say what must be said, that Gypsy crime does exist. This expression of István Hiller was also strange because, for example, in 2013 István Ujhelyi read a slightly inconsistent title of an immediate question, which said from his mouth: . What do you say that the white-collar Gypsy crime has already raised its head in Parliament as well? So it's not new for a senior president to take this on. Especially according to the decision of the Supreme Court of 30 September 2010 and in the spirit of it, since at that time he decided to publish the campaign ad of Jobbik's Gypsy Crime to the Hungarian Radio and Magyar Television. In doing so, the LB upheld the earlier decision of the National Election Committee, according to which the decisions of the public media were violating the principle of equal opportunities between nominating organisations and the exercise of good faith and proper law. According to the objection against public media - I have before me the printed order of the Supreme Court - the campaign film does not present its program from a racial point of view, but is aimed at combating crime. With the final rejection of the objection, the Supreme Court also held that Jobbik's advertisements using the term "Gypsy Crime" did not exceed the constitutional limit of expression. I also quote from this order:, it does not violate a constitutional fundamental right, nor does it implement an act ordered by law that restricts the freedom of expression of public media and could have refused to communicate it. So said the Supreme Court. I am a little sorry that we do not see a single member of the government or secretary of state, but we do not see a government representative in the benches, nor do we see anyone in the benches from the other opposition parties, even though they are perhaps the ones who should be the ones to give the most consideration to the decision of the Supreme Court. You should take note of that, since you are talking about a rule of law. According to the court's reasons, nominating organisations and persons may publish political advertisements in an election campaign under the same conditions, and it shall be prohibited to provide an opinion and an assessment explanation. I mention this only because, after the decision was made by the Supreme Court, Hungarian Radio, for example, responded with such an amazing new violation of the law that although, after our exclusion from the entire campaign, on the last day of the campaign, our paid advertising could actually appear in the public media, but they were separated from it, which is expressly prohibited by the law. What's an ad like, what's the effect of an ad like that? By the way, this decision wasn't unique. The same Supreme Court decision was taken by another acting council of the LB on similar grounds, since the violation of the law between LB and the public radio was legally two separate cases. There is no question, therefore, that the use of the word "Gypsy Crime" is justified in the legal sense. The fact that it is politically and professionally justified, and we certainly do not have to argue about it, I think, because the Hungarian people feel it on their skin. Perhaps there are some people here who are trying to sweep the problem under the rug in the spirit of political correctness. Even according to the 2008 survey of the Nézőpont Institute, operating as a fidesz branch institution, 91 percent of society believes that Gypsy crime exists, and only 5 percent said in 2008 that it does not exist. Their research leader, Samuel Mráz Ágoston, said that the concept of Gypsy crime was used in their survey because it is also included in social discourse and sociology. According to Zsolt Németh, professor of Police College, criminologist, the concept of Gypsy Crime has no place in science and criminology, but it is in the social debate. According to the criminologist, the concept of Gypsy Crime has a professional basis in that certain crimes are more often committed by people of Roma origin. The teacher at the College of Police officers said that there are certain hereditary factors in the tendency to violate the law, such as a more vulnerable nervous system or a more violent temperament, but this can only lead to criminalisation if the environment gives birth to it. That is why Jobbik, for example, wants to promote the boarding school. But in closing, let me just say that just like juvenile delinquency doesn't mean that every juvenile delinquent, neither does political crime mean that every politician is a criminal, and the word gypsy crime doesn't mean that every gypsy is a criminal. But ceterum censeo, it must be said that Gypsy crime does exist. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-09-03-219	Ladies and gentlemen, Nándor Gúr wanted to comment, but according to the house rules, he has no choice now, but I wanted to signal. Personal involvement would be the only way to do that, and nothing like that happened. [[The Foreman of Novak: Is that it?]] So, unfortunately, I can't give the floor to the notary. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 6:37 p.m.]] Nándor Gúr s. k. Dr. Lajos Szűcs s. k. notary
