u2015-03-31-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, I respectfully welcome my fellow Members and colleagues. The 17th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, notaries Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs and Attila Gelencsér will help me. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, Member of the political group May Other, spoke before today's agenda: problems and dangers in schools. I give the floor to Congressman István Ikotity.
u2015-03-31-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I'll start with a quote: at 7:25 p.m., when I get off the bus, there's a group of about 20-25 people standing in front of the school and a heart. Then it goes on every break, not before school, but in school, in a designated smoking place or in the toilet. They do it slylyly because they mix drugs with chopped tobacco and then load them into a proper, real shell. It looks just like a cigarette. Students have over half the heart minimum. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This quote is a student's report from a report recently published on one of the Internet portals and gives a devastating picture of the social and health status of rural Hungary. The problem is not unique, unfortunately there are more and more cases like this. The situation is also serious and dangerous because, for the time being, legal drugs, even new designer drugs, can spread freely in schools. These are not allowed to be banned because they have a hundred versions known, and they are constantly changing their chemical components. In 2013, the government set itself the goal of Hungary being a drug-free country by 2020. It would not be difficult to argue how well this purpose material is capable of improving the domestic drug situation, or how realistic such an objective is. But I would like to draw the attention of the government to the direction in which reality is going, despite all this. Designer drugs should not be viewed as boring, wealthy youth entertainment. This is a much bigger and more widespread problem, as we face it every day that more and more new drugs are causing problems in secondary schools and primary schools across the country. They're spreading rampage across parts of the country where the prospects are getting worse. The example mentioned above takes place not in the night in Budapest, but in a small town with no prospects. On websites now available on the Internet, anyone can easily order drugs for just a few thousand forints. The site advertises itself by selling the only fully legal C-list-free substance without any prohibited substances, while it is also listed on the website that human and animal consumption is prohibited and life-threatening, only for people over 18 years of age; our products are irritating, toxic, protective equipment is recommended, intended to be kept away from children, for gardening purposes only, for the nutritional use of plants or for human, animal consumption and are dangerous. While the site was created for obvious drug distribution purposes, this is enough for legal drug distribution to describe it, it should be used exclusively for gardening purposes, life-threatening for human consumption. Is this site still free to operate? The situation is, therefore, that drug-free Hungary, which is formed in the spirit of the announced strategy, can be legally ordered without any difficulty; although risks and harm are incompatible with other drugs. It would be worth examining what led to this. What role does the government's drug policy play in the uncontrolled spread of drugs with far more dangerous and unpredictable consequences everywhere, even in schools? There is probably something else to be done in addition to the threat of drug-related death and the threat of punishment, because domestic experience shows that this is not going to work. School drug prevention lectures in their present form have little deterrent effect, and the amount for prevention is significantly reduced. And if, like designer drugs, new, even more dangerous drugs start to spread rapidly, there will be no doubt who is responsible. Who is responsible for the fact that, unlike other European countries, designer drugs have gained such a great deal of space in Hungary? General government neglect and lack of help. Schools are powerless, teachers are abandoned, they're powerless. A truly responsible government cannot wait silently at this time, it must be able to stop the spread of new drugs, with its silence and inaction, not to make the situation worse. Now is not the time to sound, but it is not feasible, it is useless or it is precisely harmful. You have to say it's a big problem. Then, professionally acceptable and effective steps must be taken. The question is, does the government see its failure? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And if it comes out of the dead end. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-03-31-2	Thank you, Congressman Ikotity. Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, will respond to what has been said on behalf of the Government.
u2015-03-31-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The Member spoke of a problem that everyone is aware of, and not only is it a problem in Hungary, not only within and outside the school, not only in the neighbouring countries, not only in Europe, but in the whole world, especially in the developed Western world, the spread of drugs is a huge problem, the increasing supply of these drugs by criminal networks and the consumption by many in the Western European, Central and North American parts of the world. On the other hand, the government has tried to act as effectively as possible. There are three directions to our performance: one is obviously the education, the important activity with those who have not tried, they have not dealt with this drug. You, too, if you had read the national anti-drug strategy that you criticized, you would know that one of your main areas of intervention, which you mention as a novelty compared to previous strategies, is that it is very important to deal with those who have not tried drugs themselves, to confirm that they are on the right path, the right path, and not to take the path from which they become addicted to drugs. In comparison, education is obviously one of the most important aspects of the testers when they are in the life situation, the medical treatment of addicts, and the strictest punishment for those who deal in drug trafficking is the way the government has proposed and accepted in recent years. You didn't sit here in the previous term, you weren't here at the time when the criminal code was tightening up several times, you brought more and more severe sanctions against drug dealers, and more importantly, you took those loopholes out of the legal situation, according to which a drug dealer who destroyed other people's lives and even helped them to die, we took those people's excuses out of the criminal code. We hope that this will have a sufficient deterrent effect, although international criminal law cooperation is certainly equally important. As far as the issue of designer drugs is concerned, the spread of these drugs is a major problem all over the world, as they are far more dangerous. It is also more dangerous because it is easier to access, often cheaper, there are some of which you can get a dose for 500 HUF, for 2 thousand HUF, but the effects are much more unpredictable, and it is much easier to risk someone's life because of an overdose, so in every respect it is much more dangerous than the materials that have been found. [[9.10]] Therefore, the government reacted and reversed the logic of the regulation so far, introducing a C-list which punishes and punishes not only the drug itself, but the ingredient, the standard formula. Obviously, there is a race between drug producers and legal regulators here, but this is also one of the most modern and flexible facts within the European Union, or more precisely the way in which it is regulated. Over the past year, we've put dozens of materials on this C-list at three paces, precisely to make them criminal. You remember the conditions here in 2010, Congressman, when you could open shops on a side street on the Grand Boulevard, or, if I recall correctly, on a frequented part of Bel-Buda, on the way to Fehérvár, where they tried to sell these drugs in public shops. As a result of effective police action and the tightening of legislation, these shops have been closed down. It's a huge race you're saying that they sell these drugs from websites on foreign servers, and especially on foreign servers, and send them to many places with couriers. This is also part of the need for international criminal law cooperation. But the fact that the sanctioning of this has been created, that we are somewhat behind on drug criminals from the huge lag here, I believe, is the result of an amendment to the criminal law of the last four years. But what is most effective is obviously not criminal sanctions, but prevention, because that is when we can really take action against drug crime. This is also the objective of the national anti-drug strategy. That is why it has come to a better or less better way, but 80 percent of schools have some kind of drug-related information group, method, accredited curriculum, precisely to try to bring these young people into the picture early on about the dangers of extension to drugs, the use of these drugs. One of our background institutions is responsible for accrediting these trainings, these training places. There are several dozen such training places or training institutions that have appeared in schools, but obviously, as you know, as it was in the news, the next two-year action plan of this national anti-drug strategy will be on the government's table in April, and we trust it. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] that, as we have succeeded in tracking down drug criminals and death aids, young people will be better protected in the next two years. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-03-31-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Miklós Soltész, Member of the Christian Democratic People's Party, State Secretary, also spoke before the agenda, with the title of Transcarpathia and Ukraine.
u2015-03-31-5	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the Ukrainian crisis and armed conflict have triggered the idea of humanitarian aid for many and not only its thought, but also its help, because this conflict affects Ukraine's economy on the one hand, affects the livelihood of the families there, and what is perhaps most important to us has an impact on the life, residence and survival of the entire Hungarian community in Transcarpathia. As a result of the economic crisis, it is worth recalling that, in recent months, the cost of wages has increased 3-4 times, food prices have multiplied over the last few weeks and months, and unfortunately, in the opposite direction pensions and wages have started to depreciate, resulting in a pension of 10-12 thousand forints and, unfortunately, wages are very low. As a result, people's poverty is becoming more spectacular and more visible every day. The armed conflict in East Ukraine affects tens of thousands of families. It affects the lives of Ukrainian people, affects the lives of Russian people and affects the lives of Hungarian people and Hungarian families. What I personally have faced: wounded, wounded, possibly the misery of soldiers returning from the front, the misery of families, and perhaps even sadder: more and more orphaned children, who are indeed causing the difficulties of the care system, but here the humanity issue is the greatest one that we must definitely help with. This is why what has happened in Hungary has been important in recent years and months. It is important to unite charities, the decisions of the government in the support system, the offerings of churches, and I add that everyone who helps in this area either as a individual person or as a community, and the cooperation of Hungarians living in the Carpathian Basin serves to help the Hungarians and the people there and to help them a little and to stay in place. Therefore, if I may, I would like to list the steps that have been taken so far for the benefit of Transcarpathia and the Ukrainian people, and which, of course, will continue to be greatly needed in the future. Before winter, with the full cooperation of the charities, an action was launched that partly served the purchase of boilers in Transcarpathia, and partly the purchase and purchase of winter fuel, which, I can say, resulted in the difficult period behind us now, which made it a little more bearable for the people living there. A few weeks ago, the government decided to provide HUF 85 million in support of the Catholic Charity through charitable organizations there - through the Reformed Charity Service, the Maltese Charity Service and the Catholic Charity - to those families that are most affected in the conflict, where they are injured, where they are also a deceased family father, and where the income thus lost, the income lost by the father of the family, is even more devastating and difficult for the families' lives. On 15 March, the Catholic Church collected and offered the entire collection of Sundays to Transcarpathia. It's definitely a huge help. I should also like to thank you here for the collection of individuals and communities that have been sent to Transcarpathia in different ways over the last few weeks and months. But many times this has been difficult because of the difficult attitude of the Ukrainian authorities, and it is therefore a huge step that has now taken place, and here I thank the Ukrainian ethnic advocate, the President of the minority self-government, for having intervened so that we can now deliver with the help of a convoy the offerings that the charitable organisations, such as the Catholic Charity, the Reformed Charity Service, the Maltese Charity Service, the Red Cross and the Baptist Love Service, together. I thank everyone for their offer so far, thank you for the donations in cash or in kind, and I continue to encourage all Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin to provide assistance [[The president's ringing the bell.]] continue to continue for Transcarpathians, Hungarian, Ruthenian, Ukrainian and Ukrainian people beyond the Carpathians. Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity. [[Applause from the pro-government lines and the Jobbik benches.]]
u2015-03-31-6	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári will respond.
u2015-03-31-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Members, Dear House, We can also thank Mr President, because as Secretary of State, he has also led these initiatives within the government, as Secretary of State for Civil Affairs and Church Affairs, and helps people everywhere who want to do things for others. Let me tell you a personal experience, and so let me thank a lot of people in Hungary for how much you have done for Transcarpathian Hungarians, because, as you mentioned, three weeks ago in Catholic churches there was a collection on Sunday, and a week later we were announced that there was a greater amount than ever in the history of the church for any purpose, and it was not 10-20 percent larger, but a multiple. This means that all Hungarian citizens, who live here, see and feel how difficult the situation is in Transcarpathia, how difficult the situation is in Ukraine. In recent decades there has not been a Hungarian group, a Hungarian community that would have been in a more difficult situation. It seems to me that from the newscasts, from different personal acquaintances, every person is already aware of the unprecedentedness of this situation, and therefore, even during a church collection, multiples have been gathered, as for any other purpose, at any time in these communities. [[9.20]] But obviously, from other communities than Catholic churches, there are also other persons to organisations listed by the Member - either church or secular charity - who have made a great deal of donations either in nature or as a donation of money. So what I am saying is that so far we have had a lot of fellow citizens to thank for their solidarity with the Hungarians in Transcarpathia and for their help. After all, the most important thing for us is that Hungarians in Transcarpathia - and everyone else who lives in Transcarpathia - should feel safe in their homeland, and this has been in great danger in recent times. All Transcarpathian Hungarians - who asked for them, those Hungarians in Transcarpathia - are also protected by dual citizenship, but it would be important for us to keep everyone safe in their homeland. The government, as you said, will deliver more than HUF 80 million through charitable organisations to the people of Transcarpathia, but it is important to note that if we look at the maintenance of the institution network - which is important because the Ukrainian state does not support the church and Hungarian institutions with the same quota as the state institutions, so it is necessary to maintain these institutions entirely from private funds or from Hungarian state dotation - here, the Hungarian budget provided HUF 602 million for this last year as part of the programme of institutions of national importance. The Líceums there, the Hungarian kindergartens there, are maintained by the parents of the children coming there and the Hungarian state, not to mention the II. From Ferenc Rákóczi College, where the increased amount of support was sent to the Hungarians studying there on the basis of a head quota this year. On Saturday, I met youth leaders from Transcarpathia myself. I was in Cluj-Napoca, Europe's youth capital - this year Cluj-Napoca is the youth capital of Europe - and on this occasion they told me what Mr. So, on the one hand, hyperinflationary is a problem, and the value of wages and pensions is falling to a fraction. On the other hand, the price of basic food and clothing increases several times in stores and is difficult to afford. But in some way, with the support of the charities you have mentioned, they can be at least partially replaced. And Mr Secretary of State has been involved - and we thank you for that - in providing administrative assistance in crossing aid organisations at the border, so that those who have collected some kind of donation can be transferred to the other side of the border. But a bigger problem is that as their salary falls to a third in real terms, while the cost of utility charges increases enormously, the maintenance of the apartment itself is also at risk. Therefore, it is important to deliver the donations, as the value of the money measured in HUF or euro is now higher, as the value of the hryvnya has fallen greatly. So it is important that these donations go there, because basic subsistence and housing costs will not be able to be paid for by people living in Transcarpathia and in other areas of Ukraine. It is also a problem that the male population of working age migrates to another settlement precisely so that they are not found for enlisting. This draws precisely from Transcarpathia those who, by the way, could provide for the maintenance of the family. In addition, refugees come from Eastern Ukraine in thousands of sizes, who also need to be assisted by social services there. That is why the series of measures in which the Secretary of State was involved was important, from the stove program to the more than 80 million allowances. I think that, unfortunately, we still have to return to this in Parliament a lot. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-31-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, At the same time, MEP Bertalan Tóth, the Socialist Party of Hungary, spoke before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-31-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In the last three weeks, we have seen how Viktor Orbán's brokerage has abandoned more than 30,000 people whose money has been stolen from a publicly supervised market. We have seen how Viktor Orbán's brokerage has provided a fidesz billionaire broker with more than two weeks to save his assets, destroy his creditors and dispose of the evidence. And now we can also see when the Fidesz and the brokerage government are trying to make the scandal look like the victims are responsible for losing their money. After all, Viktor Orbán says that he felt the trouble, so small investors should have felt that their investments would be in trouble. The world has never seen such cynicism! Let's do two things. 1. It's not the Quaestor's fault that they don't have their money. Small investors should not be blamed for the fact that a company operating in a controlled and supervised state market steals people's money, especially if the company concerned has a large-scale business with the government and the owner is known to have good relations with government members and fidesz politicians. This could be more of a responsibility of fraudulent fidesz brokers, of the Orbán government, of poorly functioning financial supervision and of the late prosecutors. 2. It is also important to find and prosecute those responsible, but it is more important that victims receive immediate and complete compensation. However, neither the brokerage government of Viktor Orbán nor Fidesz, which supports the brokerage government, has submitted any proposals to ensure that investments are quickly and fully reimbursed. The bill to be voted on today can only provide a partial solution and projects procedures that have been prolonged for years. And it is entirely uncertain whether BEVA is paying anything at all to the Quaestor victims. In short, you may be responsible once, but money is still not certain. This is what Viktor Orbán's brokerage provides to the Quaestor-harmed. At the same time, the MSZP wants the Quaestor victims to have access to their savings, even if the confiscated property is not enough, and even if BEVA does not pay. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to offer you an unspoken point of view. The responsibility of state supervision cannot be avoided in relation to the Fidesz brokerage scandal, because at the Hungarian National Bank all the data were available to filter out if more or less than the authorised number of bonds were issued. In order to prevent fraud opportunities for brokerage houses and other securities distributors, these companies have been required to submit daily detailed data to supervision since 2009, which is monitored by the Magyar Nemzeti Bank. Each customer's daily trading opening stock, movement and closing stock were also available in electronic form at the Magyar Nemzeti Bank by individual piece and market value, so any abnormal movement would have been immediately filtered out. KELER Zrt., which performs clearing house tasks, also has trading data in the electronic register for which KELER Zrt. is listed. also provides information to the National Bank of Hungary. Since through these two organizations the State had every opportunity to control securities flows on a daily basis, to disclose fictitious issues and purchases, the brokerage government and the Hungarian National Bank cannot pass on the damage caused to ordinary people and small businesses due to their incompetence and irresponsibleness. There is a clear case of damage to administrative powers. Ladies and gentlemen, On this basis, the MSZP calls on György Matolcsy, President of the Hungarian National Bank, to finally come forward and acknowledge the responsibility of financial supervision in the failure to comply with the obligation to control and to ensure that the investments of the Quaestor-harmed are reimbursed. There is a legal basis for this, a case of damage to administrative powers, which can be done by omission. If the Hungarian National Bank refuses to do so, the Hungarian Socialist Party will provide legal assistance to the Quaestor-harmed in order to enable the court to determine its liability for the damage resulting from the failure of the Hungarian National Bank's control obligation and to recover the damage caused by it from the Hungarian National Bank. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-03-31-10	Thank you, Congressman. Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, will respond to what has been said.
u2015-03-31-11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Before the MSZP here makes a loud and unfounded demand and accusations, I suggest you answer some questions first, which I would like to repeat and ask here. [[Zoltán Haughty: And how should we respond?]] Why did the Government of the Hungarian Socialist Party terminate the periodic monitoring of financial institutions and businesses in 2004? Why did you stop it? Answer the question. [[There's a constant murmur in the ranks of the MSZP.]] The next question is why the socialist brokerage house, Buda-Cash, was conducted in May 2010, in light of the results of the elections, and why they tried to save the activities of socialist brokers for five years. Please respond. [[9.30]] The next question: tell me why the President of the Socialist Hungarian National Bank, András Simor took his investments out of Hungary, and why he put them into offshore companies during this time when he knew that the State Supervisory Board of Financial Institutions was not essentially controlling these financial investments! Were you afraid? Was the president of the Hungarian National Bank afraid that his money wasn't in the right place? That's why? Then answer me why you gave Quaestor public money - on public money! - the Gyurcsány government 17 billion [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: It's quiet now, isn't it?]] All without collateral. [[Zoltán Haughty, Dr. Bertalan Tóth and Dr. Gergely Bárándy keep interrupting. The president's ringing the bell.]] And that's basically 17 billion dollars of damage to the country. But there are other cases here. We would also like to know that when you accuse Fidesz and the current government, for example, in the case of Postabank, Gábor Princz committed acts that everyone knows during the socialists' time, and the justice system fell to your time: Gábor Princz did not spend one day in advance arrest. Answer that, gentlemen. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: The procedure was under Fidesz.]] But we could also say that the Key Price case... [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] ... theKey price issue fell during the government of the Hungarian Socialist Party. Tell me why there was no actual discovery. Why wasn't there any real justice? To this day, the unsubs have not won their punishment, and we really don't know what happened. But there are other issues, such as the case of Hajdú-Bet, where a socialist politician, future prime minister, is involved. Tell me why you have failed thousands of victims. Why wasn't there a real investigation? Why didn't anyone sit for that crime? Don't call anyone now. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Because the current government, the current system, discovered the decade-old financial scandal. All three broker scandals in two weeks are under arrest in advance. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Rarity speed?]] At odd speed, even in international comparison. Not only are there people in custody, but the confiscations have already taken place. [[There's a lot of noise in the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] There's been a lockdown of wealth, which, in your case, was out of the question at all. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: What about Béla Orgován?]] As far as compensation is concerned, calm down. Calm down, your Honourable MSZPs. The government will do everything in its power to give small investors and others the money that others stole from them. Measures have already been taken and will be taken in the future. As for the accusation against the Hungarian National Bank, if you are so aware of the lack of or low quality of work in the Hungarian National Bank, then I think you should press charges, or anyone else who has inside information, and the justice system will decide that. But it's not the kind of justice that worked in your time. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right! Applause in the pro-government benches. Off the microphone, towards Zoltán Gőgös:]] Shoot now, Grimlock.
u2015-03-31-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Representative Zoltán Magyar has also applied for a speech before the agenda. Not Congressman Haughty. Congressman Haughty! [[It's ringing.]] Congressman Haughty! Mr Haughty, it is not your turn, but on behalf of Mr Zoltán Magyar, the Group of Jobbik. Title of his statement:. The Government has passed the test of our country's representation, and accept Jobbik's proposals. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. You'll have the floor in five minutes.
u2015-03-31-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Keeping Hungarian soil in Hungarian control is a basic requirement of Jobbik. On the other hand, we can identify three threats which, if they continue at this rate, will completely destroy the foundation of our existence, the independence of our country and the opportunities of our economy, not only in the near future but for very, very long decades in advance. We've talked a lot about state land here. There has been an amazing and brazen lease in Hungary for years. Let us add that there is no reason to hear so much news about this, as it is quite amazing that we are still in the middle of Europe in 2015 to be able to lease all of our common assets, the state land, through an opaque and unremediated tender system. These also include the speculant capital against which you act only in words, and what in reality makes the lives of hundreds of Hungarian villages, Hungarian settlements impossible by leaving the same few capital companies each year with tens of billions of agricultural subsidies. But I don't want to talk about these things. I want to talk about foreign land grabbing. I do not want to deal with the way in which we have discussed many times here with the Secretary of State, that is to say, that you have actually passed an exam against pocket contracts. According to their own admission, there are hundreds of thousands of hectares of land used by foreigners in Hungary today, or at least they have their hands on it, and they would like to legalise this form in the future, there are not ten cases compared to that, and they cannot present ten cases where proceedings are currently taking place. However, even more brutal loss of territory, the existence of our independent statehood is threatened by last week's news that Brussels has launched infringement proceedings against our country for the new land traffic law. Even the dewy land law of Fidesz is inadequate for Brussels. He considers that it would provide excessive protection for the Hungarian land, which, let's face it, is ridiculous, knowing your land law. In fact, Brussels has gone further, and today it is saying that the Member States must also provide land for social enterprises. Imagine what's gonna happen here. What will happen to this country, what will happen to all of Europe if offshore capital companies compete with local family farmers for a hectare of land? This could be an amazing situation, and it can be said that it is finally finished for family farms, for the future of Hungary at all. Jobbik has taken every opportunity to put legislation in front of the House to protect the Hungarian land. Unfortunately, Fidesz and MSZP usually voted that out hand in hand. However, there is a need for joint action against last week's Brussels move. And not only must we be united on this issue here, within the walls of this House, but indeed the government must find those European allies who feel the same weight of this problem, because it can only succeed together. Therefore, today Jobbik has come up with a proposal which takes into account both European Union law and domestic law, which will be sent to the Minister's table today. I think that if you have a bit of a sense of responsibility for the Hungarian land, you will take this proposal seriously and consider it. Because, in our view, it is possible to review the EU Treaty and to abolish land's capital rating and, as a result, to restore the self-determination of the Member States on the ground market. I stress that this is not just about our country, but about all the Member States concerned, because they have the same problems. Our proposal clearly shows that we, the new entrants, are severely distinguished compared to the founding core countries, and this in itself is not only unacceptable, but also conflicting with EU treaties. Let's just say it. The EU Treaties, even the Treaty of Accession of Fidesz and MSZP, concluded in a self-reliance manner, should not prejudice the existing ownership of the Member States, including our country. The self-determination of the Member States, the acquisition and use of land forming the territory of the state cannot be ruled out or restricted by the free movement of goods, services, persons and capital by EU achievements. Of course, in the textual proposal, which specifies the order of the necessary steps, we will be able to explain further, and, as I mentioned, you will receive this material. But it will be your responsibility to take this problem seriously. In Brussels, only governments can act on this matter, and, as I have said, this cannot succeed without allies, so I suggest that you not only look for the ten Member States that joined with us, but also those of the core countries that already feel the weight of this problem and who are the losers of this brutal system. Mr. Secretary. I see you're the one who's going to answer that question. Please tell me what will happen if Brussels achieves its objective and even this dewy land law must be abolished. When are you going to take the matter of protecting the Hungarian land seriously? Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[9.40]]
u2015-03-31-14	Thank you, Congressman. The Government's position will be presented by Mr István Nagy State Secretary.
u2015-03-31-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, We agree on one thing: protecting the Hungarian soil is a priority national task. [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: That's right!]] It is a power to protect which is a priority for all of us to fight for. It's important because we're talking about a limited animal that only has one. Just as we have discussed its various forms of agriculture in the past few days, whether its nutrient content or its territorial decline are all a warning sign to us that the Hungarian agricultural land is becoming an ever greater treasure, it is increasingly important to take care of it and to continue a sharp struggle to keep it in national jurisdiction. Allow me to say that you wrongly accused the government of squandering the land by renting state land. I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that there are currently ten times more teners in the same area than there are in the previous governments. What is it, my dear fellow Member, if it is not that the agricultural land is increasingly serving the people of the countryside, it is increasingly serving rural survival? You brought up the role and involvement of the speculator capital in the ground to criticize the government. Which government, then let me ask you back, was it that led to degression, precisely so as not to stimulate the emergence of large estates, but the existence of small estates? Which government has set up a system of 80 percent small estates and 20 percent large estates in the implementation of the land policy goals? Of course, the current Fidesz-KDNP government. And, of course, here we are at the third, which is indeed the most recent: the question of foreign land grabbing. But let me ask you again: which government has passed the pocket contract law with which we are fighting this? I must tell you that there is no more eloquent proof that this is effective than the fact that in silence, in the legal way, the lands of Vas, Győr-Moson-Sopron and Zala County are being cleared and whitened. I believe that these are very effective and very successful examples. It is no coincidence that in Brussels they express dissatisfaction with the Hungarian law and say that it is too strict and does not comply with their rules. Our goal with the new land regulations is that the land must be owned and used by local farmers and farmers. We need to filter out internal and foreign speculators, and keeping the land in national jurisdiction is an absolute priority. To facilitate this, a number of guarantee instruments have been put in place. Let's see what's happened in the last few days. The European Commission has reviewed CXXII of 2013 on the movement of agricultural and forestry land in the framework of a comprehensive multi-Member State study to limit the free movement of capital. law and its consistency with EU law. We are not alone, because Hungary is not only ahead of the tests, but also Bulgaria, Lithuanians and Slovaks. This procedure was launched in July 2014 and the Commission addressed a number of questions to the Hungarian authorities in the context of the Hungarian land contract regulation. They are looking for answers to questions contained in the formal notice sent to us on 26 March 2015 indicating that Hungary's response has clarified a number of issues, but does not always comply with the European Commission. In view of this, the European Commission has concluded that Hungary's obligations under Article 49 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, i.e. freedom of establishment and 66 on the free movement of capital, are not fulfilled by adopting restrictions contained in certain provisions of the Act on the movement of agricultural and forestry land. The contested provisions include a ban on the acquisition of legal persons, the imposition of expertise on farmers - agrarian qualifications - and a practical requirement, the non-recognition of foreign acquired practices and could be classified. But, dear fellow Member, allow me to say the most important thing in the end: it is assured and proven that the Hungarian Government [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] He's gone as far as he can go. I ask you not to reduce the government's fighting power by internal sharing, but to join forces together and share the commitment of the Hungarian government and Hungary in this matter with Brussels. [[The president's ringing again.]] In order to keep the land under national jurisdiction, national ownership. I ask for your understanding and support. [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: That's right!]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-31-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Szűcs, on behalf of Fidesz, also spoke before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman. [[Zoltán Grimlock: How did it improve?]]
u2015-03-31-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, However, the collective memory on several occasions seems to be lacking; I will try to help a little. In fact, almost eight years ago, on 1 April, MSZP-SZDSZ - after a meeting in Horseman Berény - started a hospital transformation reform. [[Zoltán Grimlock: But the one that left Tapolca an active bed, you didn't!]] Those who remember it know that 16,000 active beds were removed in the country, and 1,200 of them were waiting for patients in the area of Tapolca, in Transdanubia. One part of my speech is that at that time you wanted to shut down Rókus Hospital, the oldest hospital in Hungary; we didn't even help it back then, and we resisted it. During these periods, you introduced a visitation fee and removed incredible amounts from public health, punishing city and county municipalities, and charging you for the accumulation of some HUF 125 billion in debt. These are the things that we need to remember, and that at the time of the change of government in 2010, we knew precisely that this health system must be transformed. [[Zoltán Grimlock: You've closed the hospital!]] We couldn't accept the visitation fee or the hospital conversion, and we can't support it today. We also see that there are a lot of problems in health care, but we also know that with a lot of work and people's help, we have started a process that can lead to success, since hospitals are being renewed and one of the biggest changes and developments in the sector has started since the change of system. We work for nothing but health care to provide patients with even better care and health workers with a secure livelihood. We have heard about the introduction of a number of positive measures in recent times. Among these, it is important to mention the separation of public and private health services, which will take place according to the government's decision. In recent years, some HUF 500 billion has been developed in the country, including the development of Tapolca Hospital. By summer, a HUF 2.3 billion investment will be completed, and the rescue station will be built in the area of the hospital. During the modernization of Deák Jenő Hospital, one-day surgical care is significantly improved. The health fund will finance it so that it can be every weekday in the Tapolca hospital in the future. [[Zoltán Grimlock: That's right now!]] one-day surgical care will be provided, and the corresponding operating room and the surgery department with ten active beds will provide the background for this. In all cities in which the number of people to be provided and capacity do not allow, I think that one-day surgical care can be a good solution. The facilities of Tapolca Hospital are unique in Central Europe. In accordance with these conditions, well-thought-out pulmonary rehabilitation development can provide patient care at national and even European level. As part of the development, a new, 51-bedded pulmonary pavilion will be built, and the nursing department will be placed in more modern conditions in the building. The most important thing is that people throughout the country and around Tapolca feel safe. To this end, thanks to current developments, central care and medical, surgical and emergency care as well as one-day surgery and medical services are available in Tapolca. [[9.50]] It is also envisaged that the funding of the region will also improve, as a result of the discussions, the State Health Services Centre will settle the debt of Tapolca Hospital. Overall, it is a joy that the development of Deák Jenő Hospital is planned for the summer. In addition to the ongoing HUF 2.3 billion development, however, there is a need to move forward, thus strengthening emergency care, obtaining new equipment and increasing the number of active beds. I would point out once again that, thanks to the current development, central care, medical and surgical emergency care, day-to-day surgery and medical services will also be available in Tapolca. Ongoing developments are important, but more is needed. Fidesz and KDNP remain committed to achieving these common goals. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-31-18	Thank you very much, Congressman Lajos Szűcs. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said.
u2015-03-31-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The government, as you have explained, is indeed committed to improving the country's health situation. One of our main objectives is to continuously improve the health of the Hungarian population, which is what our strategy aims to do - by increasing the number of years spent in health. In addition to prevention, it is also important for the government to ensure that the Hungarian inpatient system provides high quality, high-quality patient care with the same access potential across the country. During the current development period, Hungary has spent a significant amount of its development resources at its disposal and is still investing in the implementation of health improvements. In the unprecedented development of health infrastructure, the government is taking a lion's share in this development cycle, which represents an overall HUF 500 billion development, which is still under way. Of this amount, most of the funds, totaling more than HUF 320 billion, helped to renew and modernise inpatient care. The fundamental objective of the period is to strengthen and structurally adapt the infrastructure background of health care and to enable the public health service system to respond to today's most important public health challenges, with effective use of EU funding. New hospital wings, blocks of buildings are being built and renewed, new modern equipment is available, rescue stations are being built and rescue stations are being renovated. These work is also ongoing. This series of developments is part of what happens at Tapolca Hospital. The hospital currently has two projects under way, to which the Member has also referred. The first is the change of structure at Deák Jenő Hospital in Tapolca, a hundred years old, starting from an operational programme of social infrastructure, with a total grant of HUF 1 billion 260 million, and the other ongoing development is the development of rehabilitation services in the Central Transdanubian region, the source of this is HUF 559 million and comes from the Central Transdanubian Operational Programme. The aim of the TIOP application is to extend the day-to-day surgical care to ensure patient-centred, high-quality healthcare with a strengthened outpatient-care background and to maintain chronic care and rehabilitation care for quality services. Within the framework of this project, the rescue station of the National Rescue Service in Tapolca will also be built attached to the building of the surgical clinic. With the KDOP project, which is the other project, the hospital can develop pulmonary and cardiac rehabilitation services. With the government's approval, both projects benefited from additional resources in 2013 and 2014, with an additional HUF 375 million for the first project and HUF 80 million for the second project. The grant contract for one-day surgical care, enhanced outpatient care, new rescue station and chronic care and rehabilitation care was signed on 30 September 2013, and the project started on 8 October 2013, so this project started two years ago. The grant contract for the development of pulmonary and cardiac rehabilitation was signed on 25 October 2012 and the project started here on 1 February 2013. So these decisions, which established the current developments at Tapolca Hospital, were taken two or three years ago as part of a system, as part of a comprehensive development programme involving the whole country. The constructions are in order, according to the hospital's forecast, there will be no need to involve additional resources for the development, and the investment will be completed by summer 2015 this year. The amount of development in the Tapolca hospital is 2.3 billion forints, if you add these two items twice. These improvements can benefit from active care, so the development itself requires this supply option. In order to provide one-day surgical care in the hospital every week in the future, appropriate surgical and postoperative care will provide the background. In addition, medical care is also organically linked to rehabilitation development. In addition to the development, the management of institutional debt holdings and the prevention of their re-production are also a key task. In the framework of this, we will also try to settle the debt from central budgetary resources in Tapolca in the next period and work together with all the institutions concerned to find the most optimal operating frameworks in order to prevent the re-production of hospital debt in addition to secure patient care. This applies not only to Tapolca, but to all health institutions. I believe that the modernisation of the Deák Jenő Hospital in Tapolca can also become an example nationwide with the development of the institution. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-31-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Now, Honourable Parliament, the debate of the legislative committee's report and proposal for amendment to the Act amending certain legal acts, adopted by the President of the Republic on 3 March 2015, will follow. Text of the Act sent to the President of the Republic for signature T/3019/25. No. T/3019/26, letter from the President of the Republic is available on the parliamentary IT network. Report of the Legislative Committee T/3019/29. T/3019/28. can also be found on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. For these, a total of 15 minutes is available. First, I give the floor to Mr Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee, within a maximum of eight minutes.
u2015-03-31-21	Mr President, Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that, at its meeting on 26 March, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/3019 sent back for consideration by the President of the Republic. The Commission submitted a bill amending certain acts concerning legal status and submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 21 votes in favour, with 10 abstentions. By letter of 20 March, the President of the Republic asked the Parliament to discuss and adopt the law, after careful consideration of his observations and after the legal consultation. As the government's representative, Mr Répássy, indicated at the committee meeting, the head of state would have sent the motion not to the Parliament but to the Constitutional Court if he had considered the proposal to be invalid by public law. The 165/2011 Constitutional Court decision may govern all of us when considering the case of nullity under public law. The President of the Republic must have done the same. The Ministry of Justice conducted the necessary consultations according to the request of the Head of State, so, with the approval of the Civil Service Stakeholder Forum, the text was adopted by the Legislative Committee, which provides for the possibility of diverting the basic salary of district government officials. As has been said, I call on my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[10.00]]
u2015-03-31-22	Thank you, Congressman Vas Imre. The minority opinion will now be presented within a timeframe of up to seven minutes. I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyure.
u2015-03-31-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! A minority opinion was also formulated at the committee meeting, since 10 abstentions were made in this case. Why were these ten abstentions born? First of all, because Mr Barándy had already indicated in his speech that he saw an invalidity of public law in this case, since the bill was not withdrawn, even though he believed that the government should have withdrawn it, re-submitted it, and that the mandatory consultation that was required by the legislation, which the President of the Republic referred to, should have been carried out before the referral. By the way, Gábor Staudt also said in his speech that Jobbik considered it to be invalid in public law, which was the case in this case. There was also a separate vote on this issue. Obviously, in the separate vote, the will of the majority of the government won, so they said that there was no need to withdraw, that his trial was not off the agenda. After that, we agreed to a substantive discussion at the TAB meeting, where none of the opposition parties supported the legislative committee's summary amendment proposal. Why didn't we support him? We did not support it because the President of the Republic in his letter, in which he sent this bill back for consideration, referred to several points. On the one hand, he referred to what all opposition parties expressed during the debate, namely that there was no mandatory consultation, i.e. the mandatory consultation laid down in the law on legislation, in this case either. That is what the President of the Republic has referred to. Obviously, despite all the opposition parties' objections during the general debate, this discussion was not withdrawn or conducted. The President of the Republic commented on this. By the time the case was brought before the Legislative Committee, it was carried out on the basis of a letter from the President of the Republic. However, the President of the Republic not only sent the law back for consideration because of this, but also had several problems with it. Thus, for example, the amendment of the appointment without the consent of the civil servant, which he commented on. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Jobbik Movement for Hungary drew attention to this in the general debate, and then in the amendments tabled, and that this is what we have pointed out most of our comments on how dangerous a process is when the employer unilaterally amends the appointments of civil servants, government officials, civil servants, employment contracts - because it does not have a contract of employment but is appointed. They are extended by legislation, which allows for unilateral changes to the employment contract, thereby giving the employer an opportunity to put the worker at a high disadvantage. That's why the President of the Republic sent him back. He also referred to the possibility of arbitrary reductions in salaries and the withdrawal of titles under the legislation, which was accepted by the Parliament. He also made this an excuse. When the Commission's amendment came into force, we saw in the Legislative Committee that these last two call points had not been dealt with at all by the Legislative Committee or by the majority of the government, dealing exclusively with the conciliation process, some of which had been discussed, and no further objections. The opposition parties submitted amendments to the TAB meeting. They have been voted on. These were swept off the table by the majority of the government. These amendments also included the aspects described by the President of the Republic in his letter of return, which were missing from the legislative committee's amendment proposal, which, by the way, is virtually the same as the amendment proposed by the majority of governments. Therefore, since these points were completely absent, all opposition parties abstained or could not accept them. Abstention was also because there was some progress compared to the way the bill was adopted earlier in the Parliament. Therefore, it was not a vote, but a abstention, but we could not support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-03-31-24	Thank you very much, Congressman Csaba Gyure. Dear Parliament, I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. [[Dr. Répássy on Róbert's signal:]] It says yes. Before I give the floor, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have a time frame of ten minutes for speaking in the debate and presenting the possible closing phrase. I give the floor to Secretary Robert Répássy.
u2015-03-31-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to waste time reciting the debate between us at the committee meeting, but at the committee meeting I referred to a decision of the Constitutional Court, which is the 165/2011. Decision Ab of 20 December 2006 is numbered. The reason for this is that the preparation of the draft law is not part of the legislative process, and therefore the failure to organise the legal obligation of conciliation or social debate creates political responsibility on the side of the legislator, but does not result in the nullity of the law under public law. I referred to this Ab decision at the committee meeting. I also referred to the fact that the President of the Republic, in his letter of return, expressly states that I cannot agree with the law in this form. This means that he has exercised his so-called political veto right, so he has refused to publish the law on grounds of non-law nullity. If the law had been found to be invalid in public law, it would obviously have to be sent by the Constitutional Court. In addition, the President of the Republic's statement of objections and concerns expressed in his letter of return was considered by the national government, the necessary consultation with the Civil Service Stakeholder Forum was carried out, and he also reached agreement on certain issues with this body. These amendments are included in the legislative committee's amendment. So all the necessary procedures, proposed by the President of the Republic, were carried out by the government, which allowed the bill to be brought back to the House for a final vote. Of course, we did not agree on everything with the Civil Service Stakeholder Forum. The fact that there is a debate with the Civil Service Stakeholder Forum on certain issues is not, by the way, an obstacle to the establishment of the law. I note that, and you know that, because we have talked about this a lot, that the government has already consulted interest representation organisations in the preparatory phase of the law, so that we have not missed the consultation of interest representatives required by the legislative law. The special obligation to consult the Civil Service Stakeholder Forum arises from the relevant rules of the Public Service Officers Act. To sum up, therefore, this House, there is no reason to hold a final vote. From the point of view of the validity of the legislation, I think that in the interests of public service workers within the scope of the law, the government has done everything in its power to take account of the interests of these workers and public servants, because in many cases the legislation has been amended so that organisational changes and the organisational changes of the public administration do not adversely affect workers and public servants, in order to maintain their service, so that they do not lose their jobs. Please accept the bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-03-31-26	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform you that, at the end of the debate, you have five minutes and 55 seconds to say the closing word, if the time is right. [[10.10]] Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing; first I give the floor to Member Gergely Bárándy, the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2015-03-31-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I think that the main objections that opposition parties have made broadly unanimously, Mr Csaba Gyüre, my fellow Member, Vice-President of the Commission, have been correctly presented in the presentation of the minority opinion. However, it is worth continuing the debate on the nullity of the proposal in public law, and that is what the Secretary of State has said in connection with his recent speech. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is easy to distinguish between the cases in which the law provides for a so-called general obligation to negotiate with the representatives of the professions or social groups concerned, and when the law provides for a very specific obligation to negotiate with a specific organisation of interest. The Secretary of State likes to wash these two together: he has washed this together during the last debate and he is washing it together now. The Constitutional Court's decision to which it refers concerns, to the best of my knowledge, the general obligation to negotiate, and does not cover cases where the law explicitly lists who should be consulted; this is a huge difference. In our view, in cases where the law specifically requires the obligation to negotiate with a specific organisation, the failure to do so results in a public-law invalidity. To the argument, Mr Secretary of State, that the President of the Republic did not send him to the Constitutional Court, but back to Parliament for consideration, I can tell you this: the President of the Republic has been doing this for years. I suppose if he's going to be a different-colored government, and he's still going to be president, that's going to change with him, but he doesn't like to send matters to the Constitutional Court when you're in charge, even if it turns out from the explanatory statement that he feels that he should, in fact, be sent to the Constitutional Court under the law. I think these are usually clear messages for you. I can only guess, but I don't know exactly. So the fact that he chooses this solution and does not turn to the Constitutional Court results from a kind of political creed, in my view, which seeks to support the government from which he comes, from which he comes, not as a public-law argument. I believe that's what this is all about in this case. The President of the Republic would have acted correctly, indeed, if he had sent this law to the Constitutional Court. But once again, it is not worth mentioning as a professional argument, because there are political reasons for this, in my view. We will see if anyone who is entitled to do so will turn to the Constitutional Court on this issue, and if so, I will put it in brackets - this composition of the Constitutional Court will decide on this matter. So I see that it would have been the only right solution - and we still have the opportunity to do so in such a way that the government does not withdraw it, but votes against it - if this law had to be renegotiated in such a way that it had to start over from the conciliation stage. If the law, the law, requires that the forum of interest be consulted specifically before the bill is submitted, then the government can only do so, and the only way it can comply with the provisions of the law is if it starts to negotiate this law again from the preparatory stage, i.e. it is now voted off by the Parliament - and I propose this to my fellow Members, let us do it, now it is voted off - and the government will start again to negotiate with the organization that has agreed the interests, and then bring it in, even with the same standard text to the Parliament. Is the consultation with the stakeholder forum successful or not? Unfortunately, the opposition does not have the opportunity and the right to be there, which is why I can only make assumptions. So, in my view, their agreement could have been pretty much the same as our stay at the committee meeting. You probably came up with, well, that's it, that's it, that's it, or that's it, or there's no change, and they said it's good, well, it's better than nothing. That was the big deal in my view at the interest-sharing forum. The fact that from their proposals, which were indeed substantive proposals, whatever was incorporated into this law, it is not apparent, because we know the position of the stakeholder forum on this law. What worked out with the amendments is not what they think, so I think it's a good thing for one sentence at the most that the negotiation took place, but it certainly didn't have a meaningful effect. However, what is worth mentioning, my fellow Members, the President of the Republic has not only objected - and this was also mentioned by my fellow Member Csaba Gyüre - that there has been a lack of reconciliation of interests, which he considers to be a serious omission which he cannot agree with in this form, but also stated that he considers that, in the context of the renegotiation, it would also be considered to amend working conditions without consent, a reduction in remuneration for about 6,000 people, which would also, and I add, allow for an out-of-court assessment of performance. The President of the Republic said that I should be specific: I do not agree with the modification of working conditions without the consent of civil servants, with the reduction of the previous guaranteed basic salary of about 6,000 persons, with the possibility of an assessment of performance that is seemingly unreasonable and beyond, which may result in arbitrary reductions in remuneration and a reduction in title. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, Now, that's what you didn't consider. I understand that it can also be called a consideration that has been considered, but I do not agree with anything the President of the Republic suggests, but this is again a consideration in words, in practice, not in terms of content. Our proposal, presented at the Legislative Committee, served to ensure that the salaries of officials received at the Government Office should not be reduced in any way after the restructuring. Compared to this, your only amendment, which may change the law a little bit, is to build up different dams, but otherwise it does not eliminate the fact that in one person the head of the government office will be able to decide on the reduction of salaries. I think it's not a real change, it's not a real result. If a person has the same discretionary power to cut wages as in the previous regulation, it is not a real result. The real result would have been to accept our amending proposal, which, in view of the opinion, is in line with the views of the stakeholder forum, that these people should not be able to reduce their basic salary or salaries after the restructuring. Ladies and gentlemen, These are the ones that came up in the repeated debate. The arguments that we have made earlier in the general debate I do not wish to repeat, but we also maintain that position: so this law cannot be adopted in my view. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-31-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next scheduled speaker is Mr President Novak, Jobbik Group.
u2015-03-31-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, It is very painful that such an important bill will be the victim of the personal dispute between Viktor Orbán and János Áder, because, as the leaked one, there may be serious mistrust between the head of state and the Prime Minister, and that János Áder is asking the Emergency Police to defend himself, not from the Counter-Terrorism Centre, but against the legislation. [[10.20]] This information was not intended to be commented by the Office of the President of the Republic, but according to the information leaked, there is nothing in the background but a lack of confidence. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: Public law considerations!]] that during the personal conversations between Viktor Orbán and János Áder, the Prime Minister was aware of all the meetings of the head of state, not just his weekly programme, but his every meeting. After having direct access to Viktor Orbán, the head of the Counter-Terrorism Centre, János Hajdú; after that this is, in fact, Viktor Orbán's private bodyguard [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Is this part of the debate?]] There's nothing to be surprised about. What hurts us, however, is that the victim of such a personal struggle may be the present law. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Obviously, according to analyses, their debate may also be due to the fact that János Áder has so far returned legislation to Parliament 19 times for renegotiation and consideration, most of which were re-accepted by the Fidesz mameluk without any substantive change. That's why it hurts so much that this is happening right now. Of course, we do not consider it a good thing that instead of sending it to the Constitutional Court as a substantive satisfaction, where there is at least a chance, there is at least a mathematical chance that the entry into force of this legislation will be substantially rejected in the event of a prior standard control, it will obviously give a more spectacular slap from the back hand, it will send the proposal back, which, in turn, cannot be regarded as a substantive satisfaction or remedy, since you will accept this proposal without any change. That is why we would have preferred that János Áder live with someone else and not continue his discussions and disagreements with the Prime Minister here. While the Secretary of State for Family and Youth is trying to demonstrate the government's family-friendly approach by calling for proposals to support the development and development of family-friendly jobs by the Ministry of Human Resources, the Minister of Justice has now come up with an anti-family bill, as this proposal loosens the rules for the relocation of government officials. Thus, a child over the age of 10 must accept that he must travel to work for up to three hours a day. The three-hour trip to eight-and-a-half hours of work is almost half of the day, so the five days of the week are all about work and night rest as a physical need, which is clearly harmful for the family as well. In addition, for 50 days a year, the government official would be able to be assigned without his consent, i.e. directing him to another county for work. The government still hasn't been able to understand that people are not machines that are free to pack. However, the head of state has also highlighted this, although it is only one paragraph out of nine paragraphs, a single sentence that details, as a list, what its reservations are. For example, I do not agree with the modification of working conditions without the consent of the civil servant. 'The head of state,' said the head of state, following the criticism that we have expressed earlier, in a very similar way. However, you refuse to consider the words of Jobbik or János Áder and again want to shove the same down their throats. However, Jobbik does not ask for this, but cannot support this proposal. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-31-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next announced speaker was Mr András Schiffer, Head of the Political Group, May Other.
u2015-03-31-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, President János Áder has made use of the political veto for several reasons. One of the very important reasons was that there was no consultation with trade unions and trade unions, although the legislative law, the author of which was Mr Répássy Róbert in 2010, imposed this obligation of conciliation as a procedural requirement. I agree that, if one of the reasons is that the government has failed to comply with this legislative procedural obligation, it is customary for the trade unions to submit a bill bypassing it, and that is why the head of state is using the political veto, if the government wants to eliminate this error, the bill should be withdrawn, negotiations with trade unions should be conducted and re-submitted. The additional reasons for the President of the Republic were as follows. He disagrees with the modification of the working conditions without the consent of the civil servant; according to his information, the reduction of the former guaranteed basic salary of 6,000 persons, the seemingly unsubstantiated and extraordinarily Hungarian: the possibility of arbitrary benchmarking, which may result in arbitrary reduction of salaries and title deprivation. This threefold justification, raised by János Áder, means that the government intends to continue to enforce in the public sector the principle that, by the way, the Hungarian people from all over the country from 2011 to work more for less money. Currently, in Hungary, there is 30 percent employee poverty in the public sector. This has two tragic consequences. One is that quality public services, quality community control, in Hungarian: effective enforcement of public interest against private interests cannot be expected from an underpaid, poorly paid, humiliated, arbitrary employer's decision-making staff. If they continue to employ state officials for insecurity and humiliating wages, the result may be, of course, the government's intention to prevent Community interest from being enforced against large investors and various oligarchs. The other tragic consequence of this income policy, however, is that if workers' poverty continues to be of such a standard in the public sector, it is also a sign and a pressure on the entire national economy. It is not expected that wage growth will start in Hungary in the foreseeable future; it is not expected that working conditions and the protection of workers will improve in Hungary. A country in which the State keeps its own officials in service, a country in which the State can do anything to its own officials, without the official's consent, an arbitrary change of working conditions can be done to any worker in such a country. In a country where, by the way, the income of civil servants is constantly falling in real terms, there is no realistic expectation that the Community interest can be effectively enforced. An effective wage increase in the competitive sector cannot be expected. Therefore, what the President of the Republic has pointed out is that this law, in this form, will continue to increase workers' poverty. In this form, this law is an indication to all employees of Hungary that the Orbán government wants to keep employees in the service, and it is your idea that the Hungarian people should work as much as possible for as little money as possible under the more vulnerable conditions. Therefore, this proposal, since it has not been substantially amended, remains unacceptable. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-31-32	Thank you very much, Congressman, Mr Group Leader. I'll ask if anyone else wants to speak in the remaining timeframes. Yes, I see I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre, Jobbik.
u2015-03-31-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I've already said a lot of things in the drafting of the minority opinion, but we didn't go into the basics, the details. And what are those details? I'd like to talk to you about three more things here. During the general debate, we also challenged the part of the bill that repealed the wage guarantee previously offered by the government to civil servants. What does that mean? It means that the salaries of civil servants taken from the municipality to government offices and district offices may therefore be reduced in the future after the adoption and entry into force of the bill. We have received letters, letters from a document office or government offices expressing the fear that if this bill comes into force, their salary will be radically reduced. Thus, the wages of persons working in the document office with secondary education will hardly exceed the minimum wage under the new legislation. This means that, in many cases, the wages of people working in government offices will fall by half or, in many cases, by half. What's that gonna mean in public service? It will mean that workers who are truly professionals who have worked there for many years with great, great experience, they will leave there, they will leave. This will lead to a deterioration of the quality of the civil servants' staff. [[10.30]] So this is a big problem, even though the government promised when government agencies were formed, a firm promise that it would not cut wages. Now this promise is virtually terminated by the government, and it spits out public service workers, government officials, district officials. And that is what we have already said in the general debate, which is why we cannot support this bill. But there are other problems, because of the shortness of time, I would like to talk about two more things. The other thing that my fellow Member, Mr President Novák, has already indicated is what it means to go to work. The new bill provides three hours to allow the worker to travel for another three hours on the basis of secondment outside the working hours when they work their 8-8,5 hours. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: No!]] We can't accept that because it's... [[Dr. Répássy Robert: No. An hour and a half...]] - twice an hour and a half, as the Secretary of State says. Yeah, that's three hours in total. [[It's constant noise.]] This means that you will travel 12 to 11.5 hours and work for the employee, which is practically half of a 24-hour day. And there's the third question, the one-sided amendment to the employment contract. What does this legislation say? He says he needs to be reassigned. We can agree with that that there may be a need for secondment between a government office and a government office, indeed. But what does the new legislation bring in, and what is the biggest problem with secondment? Ordering... [[It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the case of assignment, the problem is that it can become territorial. The draft legislation brings in a theoretical guarantee, which says that the duration of secondment can last for a maximum of six months. However, this is also a very long time for a worker who has not consented to his own secondment, but who will be assigned unilaterally by the employer and will work for six months in other work areas. It also removes its own six-month limit, as it says that the secondment may be extended until the task is completed, i.e. indefinitely. That is why we cannot support this bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik. It's a rare round of applause from the LMP benches.]]
u2015-03-31-34	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, [[Noise. It's ringing.]] Mr Zoltán Kovács's comment follows.
u2015-03-31-35	Dear Parliament, Mr President, I would like to reflect on some of the proposals made here. There are some errors in opposition speeches so far, as this legislation gives rise to the introduction of different legal institutions. It's not mandatory. In addition, unfortunately, even the President of the Republic has not carried out the inquiry that he is talking about 6,000 government officials. Seven percent of all government officials are affected by the so-called guaranteed salary, which is an opportunity to settle this in some form, as the district officials themselves have asked that it is morally unsustainable - especially in the capital city, in Pest County and in some county-righted cities, to earn more than 150 thousand forints in the same job. He may even work less well than the same coworker. Therefore, the law gives us the opportunity to settle this, and for guaranteed salaries, 10-20-30 thousand forints are not hijacked by colleagues, where there is a big difference and there is a balance. So who, say, makes 100,000 forints more in the same job, may make 50 thousand less, but who made less, and who is upped his salary. So I think it helps work there, both from the point of view of work and morally. In addition, the mistake that Csaba Gyüre was talking about, in the government window or in the document offices, is being paid 20% for their work, just because they are clients, just to keep good administrators. You, Congressman, have not spoken about this, even though this remains in the previous legislation. As regards secondment, the law sets limits, in Hungarian: in the case of a family member who is a parent of a minor child, who is a single parent, who is permanently ill. So you're trying to emphasize the family-friendly part of this opportunity. And as for the future, no one said anything about it. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that next year the career model will enter, which also means that the income of those working at the end, the hardest jobs, will increase by 30 percent according to our vision. So, precisely because of the fact that I am hearing the fading of fellow Members of the opposition here in Parliament, it is a solution, and at the moment, the law gives the district heads all the opportunity they are not obliged to implement. Overall, I can say that this law is acceptable to Parliament on the basis of what the Secretary of State has said. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-31-36	Thank you very much, Congressman Kovács. I will ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. Yes, I give the floor to Congressman András Schiffer, Mr Group Leader.
u2015-03-31-37	Dear Parliament, Congressman Kovács has been silent about the possibility of ordering a diversion of basic salary in the employer's discretionary decision. He did not say anything about the conditions under which this decision could be made by the employer, under which legal guarantees. He also listened to the fact that working conditions could be changed without the consent of the civil servant. He also listened to the fact that they would allow for an extraordinarily high performance assessment without reason. So, far more widely than the above mentioned circle, this gives rise to an arbitrary reduction in salaries. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2015-03-31-38	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Kovács, Fidesz.
u2015-03-31-39	Mr President, Dear Congressman Schiffer, I wasn't listening, I was talking about it being an opportunity, not having to live with it. And it is obvious that in the case of good staff, they do not use it, but the law provides the possibility for district officials who, instead of a previous two-year benchmarking, who are not well-employed or even those who use their title, have two consecutive performance assessments - which otherwise shows what work the government official is doing - to relegate it or move it from its job to another place, or, where appropriate, to initiate disciplinary sanctions. These are the options. If they are not in the hands of a leader, then the debate there on these matters becomes untied. Good workers can be less motivated to work, and those who work less properly think they can do anything, since the law protects their less suitable work so far that it can be cemented up to the retirement age. The law seeks to give the leader the opportunity with these tools, just in the interest of the customers, for the sake of good work. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-31-40	Thank you very much. Congressman Gergely Bárándy will have an opportunity within a minute. I give you the floor.
u2015-03-31-41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, What my colleague Zoltán Kovács talked about is the problem, because the legal guarantees that stand in the way of discretionary decisions, where appropriate, reduce precisely the vulnerability of the worker. Now, that's what we're missing from this law. Our problem with this is precisely that it gives the administrative manager the right to, let's say, reduce the wages of someone in a free decision without any guarantees, without any barriers. That is the problem, my fellow Member, that is exactly what we have been talking about over the past period. In any case, thank you very much for confirming this in the debate, which is why we will not support this law. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-31-42	Thank you very much. I will ask if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I will ask the author, Mr Secretary of State, if he wishes to reply. It indicates yes; it has a time frame of 5 minutes and 55 seconds. [[10.40]]
u2015-03-31-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to say briefly, because I am joining what Mr Zoltán Kovács has said. I would like to add to what has been said here by the fact that the bill does not undermine the guarantees, the bill retains the guarantees relating to the personal conditions and working conditions of public service workers. So it is a mistake that the opposition position is that the situation of public service officials would deteriorate here. For many times, it is a mistake that the proposal is not family-friendly enough. A certain three-hour travel time should be understood as meaning [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] That, of course, it can be an hour and a half, and only if the employer's seat is changed within a given settlement, it does not need the consent of the civil servants to do so. Thus, in the event of a change of employer's seat in a settlement, travel time may increase, which must be accepted by the civil servant. In practice, this concerns Budapest, as government offices and public authorities are most often merged in Budapest with their headquarters significantly further away from an earlier location, and in rural county seats there will not suffer any disadvantage. I would like to point out that, in the first place, the salary of the managers will be reduced, because there will be mergers due to administrative reorganisations, and some administrative bodies will be combined by the government. So far, these administrations have had separate heads. So it's a mistake, it doesn't correspond to the reality that a large part of the civil servants here are threatened by some kind of salary reduction. Only those in a position of leadership can suffer such a disadvantage. However, I note that the management mandate may be revoked at any time in the public service without justification. Thus, the manager cannot expect forever that his salary will remain the salary plus the driver's allowance, but he can obviously count on his guaranteed salary under the salary table. Dear House, Just one last sentence on the debate on so-called public invalidity. I would like to confirm that we agree with the President of the Republic's assessment that we agree with the provisions of his letter of return. There can be no doubt as to the nullity of the proposal, as the President of the Republic himself has required us to replace the lack of consultation. This happened, so... [[Novak Forefather: Not only that!]] This was one of his objections to validity, the replacement of the lack of consultation, and this was done by the government, so the Parliament can vote on the bill, and according to the government there is no doubt about the validity of the proposal. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-03-31-44	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place from 10.30 a.m. at the earliest, or soon. Dear Parliament, It is now the decision on the proposed amendment of the Legislative Committee, which we have just discussed, and the final vote. I would like to inform you that there is no possibility, under the provisions of the house rules, of maintaining a proposal for an amendment in this course and of a request for a separate vote. First, we will decide on the proposed amendment. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/3019/28. a proposal for an amendment with a serial number. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the amendment by 108 votes in favour, 39 against and 20 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the law on the amendment of certain legal acts, which has not been published, with the amendments which have just been adopted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the law by 109 votes in favour, 39 against and 20 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now time to take the decision on a proposal for a comprehensive amendment to the bill on the security of property for the victims of broker scandals and the final vote. The independent motion is T/4029. is available on the parliamentary IT network. T/4029/15. T/4029/16. by serial number. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/4029/15. a proposal for a summary amendment with a serial number. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 160 votes to seven, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, And now for the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4029. the text of the legislative proposal No. 1 as amended by the proposal for an amending amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the amended bill by 157 votes in favour, 12 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, The decision and final vote on the proposal for a comprehensive amendment to the bill on the development of facilities for the implementation of the World Swimming, Waterball, Jumping, Artificial Swimming and Open Water Championships in Budapest will now follow. The independent motion is T/4113. is available on the parliamentary IT network. T/4113/8. by serial number and summary report by T/4113/9. by serial number. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/4113/8. a proposal for a summary amendment with a serial number. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 163 votes in favour, no votes against, with 7 abstentions. Dear Parliament, And now for the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4113. the text of the legislative proposal No. 1 as amended by the proposal for an amending amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the amended bill by 164 votes in favour, 4 against and 2 abstentions. We wish you good luck in the implementation. [[10.50]] Dear Parliament, We now have a final vote on proposals for which no amendments have been tabled and no committee related to the debate, and therefore, in the final vote, we are deciding on the text of the bill submitted. The final vote of the bill between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the United States of America on the publication of the Convention on Social Security will follow. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/3484 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill with 170 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. The final vote of the bill on the publication of the Convention on Social Security between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Turkey follows. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/3789. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill with 169 votes in favour, no votes against, with two abstentions. Dear Parliament, A decision on the adoption of a proposal for a decision on the adoption of a report on the activities and functioning of the Bethlen Gábor Fund for 2013. I would like to inform you that, in the absence of a statement of a related Commission amendment proposal and a detailed discussion, we are deciding on the original text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts H/3523. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 112 votes to 59, with two abstentions. Dear Parliament, Following the 2011 Environmental Product Award LXXXV. Final vote of the bill amending the law. Since the Commission's proposal to amend the proposal to close a detailed debate has not been tabled and the procedure of the Legislative Committee has not been initiated, we are now deciding on the original text of the proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/3752. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill by 113 votes in favour, 34 against and 26 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It follows that Article XXVIII of 1998 on the protection and welfare of animals Final vote of the bill amending the law. On the basis of a request for a Fraction, however, we must also decide to maintain an amending proposal. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. According to paragraph 4 of Section T/3749.3. of the LMP Group. The Commission proposed to maintain the amendment. That's what we'll decide first. In Amendment 3, István Ikotity and Benedek Sallai put forward a proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 32 votes in favour, 116 against and 23 abstentions. Since the Parliament has not maintained the amendment and the Commission's amendment closing the detailed debate has not been tabled and the procedure of the Legislative Committee has not been initiated, we are now deciding on the original text of the proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/3749. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 141 votes in favour, 31 against, with 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 1997 CXL on museum institutions, public library provision and public education. Final vote of the bill amending the law. Since the Commission's proposal to amend the proposal to close a detailed debate has not been tabled and the procedure of the Legislative Committee has not been initiated, we are now deciding on the original text of the proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/3751. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 112 votes against, 3 against, 57 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The final vote on the proposal for a decision on the National Disability Programme 2015-25. However, in the light of a request for action, we must also decide to maintain proposals for amendments. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Article 4 (4) of the Jobbik Group proposed that amendments H/3586/3, 4 and 5 be maintained. That's what we're gonna decide first. In Amendment 3, Mr Sebestyén Csápó put forward a proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 55 votes in favour, 114 against and two abstentions. In Amendment 4, we are also deciding on the presentation of Mr Vágó Sebestyén. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 112 against and two abstentions. In Amendment 5, Mr Sebestyén Vágó put forward a proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 56 votes in favour, 115 against and 1 abstention. [[11.00]] Dear Parliament, Since the Parliament has not maintained a proposal for an amendment and the Commission's amendment closing the detailed debate has not been tabled and the procedure of the Legislative Committee has not been initiated, we are now deciding on the original text of the proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether H/3586 accepts it. A proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 164 votes to six, with two abstentions. Dear Parliament, It follows a decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending certain laws necessary in the context of the establishment of a national passenger information system and the regulation of the exchange of information in the framework of cooperation on criminal and/or police matters and the final vote. The submission is T/3404. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. T/3404/12. and the summary report by T/3404/13. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the MSZP Group is T/3404/6. Amendment Nos 7 and 7 were proposed to continue. That's what we're gonna decide first. In Amendment 6, Tamás Harangozó presents a proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 62 votes in favour, 111 against and without abstention. In Amendment 7, we decide on the presentation of Tamás Harangozó. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 61 votes in favour, 112 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/3404/12. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 137 votes to six, with 30 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/3404/15. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote. L. Simon László indicates that his machine is not working.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 134 votes in favour, 8 against and 31 abstentions. [[L. Simon László: My plane froze for the second time. Intercom from the lines of the MSZP: This is the system.]] I'll ask the Secretary of State if he's heard from you. [[For signal:]] Go ahead, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-03-31-45	Mr President, I voted yes, but the plane froze during the vote, twice. [[Zoltán Lukács: Sabotage!]]
u2015-03-31-46	So now and before. I would kindly ask the notaries and technicians to correct this error; in both votes, Mr Secretary of State voted in favour. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2008 XL on gas supply. a decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending law and a final vote. The independent motion is T/3782. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. T/3782/7. T/3782/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, The decisions will follow. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. According to paragraph 4 of Section T/3782/3, the MSZP is the T/3782/3. The Commission proposed to maintain the amendment. That's what we'll decide first. T/3782/3. Mr Tóth put forward a proposal in the proposed amendment. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I'm gonna ask Secretary Simon if his plane let me up. [[For signal:]] It's not frozen. [[Defiance.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 39 votes in favour, 112 against and 21 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained the amendment proposal, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/3782/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 112 votes in favour, 35 against and 25 abstentions. Now, Honourable Parliament, the final vote follows. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/3782/10. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 132 votes in favour, 32 against and 7 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We now decide on the inclusion of a series of proposals. I would remind you that, following the request of the LMP Group, the Parliament has already conducted the H/1758 Committee on Organisational and Procedural Deficits of the State Tax Administration in relation to VAT fraud. The debate on the inclusion of a series of proposals for a decision. Now it's time for the vote. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of questions, Ms Bernadett Wind and his fellow Members, H/1758. I have put forward a proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution in the series by 58 votes to 110, with two abstentions. [[11.10]] Dear Parliament, I would remind you that, at the request of the Jobbik Group, the Parliament has already carried out the process of making the home care of elderly people in need fair, H/3476. The debate on the inclusion of a series of proposed decisions. Now it's time for the vote. I ask you, will Tamás Sneider, Foreman Novák and Cutter Sebestyén H/3476 be included in a series of subjects. I have put forward a proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution with 56 votes in favour, 111 against and 4 abstentions. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that the factions have not proposed exchanges of members from the Commission, no personal decisions will be taken today. Thank you for the cooperation of the honourable Parliament, and before we continue our work in general discussions, we will have a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break. Several Members are leaving the Chamber.]] I respectfully ask my fellow Members to take their seats and take the corridor. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Next, the 2005 LXIV on the Budapest agglomeration Spatial Planning Plan. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission is T/4026. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State L. Simon László, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, author of the item on the agenda.
u2015-03-31-47	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before you, even though it only complements the law in one paragraph, is still a great help to the settlements of the agglomeration. During the recent general review of the agglomeration law in 2011, the government, in cooperation with the municipalities, defined the way and conditions of regional land use, which effectively hinders the use of unfavorable land use and the impossibility of the development of transport sectors. In cooperation with the local authorities, we have defined the municipal areas in which settlements can designate areas intended to be built up, whether for more intensive housing or economic use. In the case of the 2011 review, however, there was a period of 3-4 months between administrative consultation and the entry into force of the legislative amendment when the legislator was unable to take into account the needs of the municipalities. At the same time, the municipalities also designated areas for installation, which could not therefore be managed by the amendment. By 31 December 2015, the agglomeration law obliges the municipalities covered by it to coordinate their settlement arrangements with the law. However, since the law in force at the time contained other rules on the areas designated for the period in question, the municipalities concerned should list these areas, even though they have been legally designated, building rights have been created, and even some constructions have taken place or are in the process. In order to address this problem, we will introduce a spatial planning authority procedure for the so-called co-ordination certificate, whereby the municipality will have its designated areas for installation accepted and, after the procedure has been completed, these areas should be considered compatible with the agglomeration law. [[11.20]] The cost of carrying out the administrative procedure is significant, the design fee and the design documents to be submitted for the application will cost an average of HUF 700 thousand plus VAT per municipality, which will also be charged with the additional costs of the tasks to be carried out by the determining authority. Nearly 70 settlements in Pest County have begun to review and modify their settlement arrangements. Of these, 30-35 municipalities would have the need to carry out a spatial planning procedure to verify consistency, with an estimated cost of more than HUF 26 million, and a minimum of four months, which will certainly no longer be within the deadline set by the law at the end of 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, This amendment therefore allows local authorities to prepare their urban planning instruments in line with the agglomeration law, taking into account the areas designated in their previously adopted urban structure or regulatory plans and intended for installation, without carrying out a spatial planning authority procedure. It is important to stress that this amendment does not reduce legal certainty, as only those areas which have been legally designated before the said amendment of the law can be regarded as areas intended for incorporation. The bill is therefore a cost-saving and time-saving solution for the municipalities and the Government Office of Pest County, which conducts the administrative procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, The government also supports the reduction of the administrative burden on investment through its programme "Simple State" but in some cases it is necessary to reduce the administrative burden on municipalities and public administrations and to streamline certain decision-making mechanisms. This amendment of the agglomeration law makes this possible, so I ask for your support. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-31-48	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, and the speakers will be held in the first round. First, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Szűcs, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-03-31-49	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, In fact, we are talking about a very short bill, which we have already formulated for amendment. I thank the Government very much for making this amendment on the basis of this proposal. As a committed believer in cutting red tape in Pest County, I would like to address the T/4026 in front of us. LXXIV of 2005 on the plan for spatial planning of the agglomeration in Budapest. concerning the amendment of the law. I believe that, in order to continue the development of the agglomeration in Budapest, it is necessary that the areas defined as areas intended for incorporation in the settlement planning instrument adopted before the adoption of the 2011 law can be considered as areas intended for incorporation without carrying out a spatial planning authority procedure. At the same time, I think it is important to note that, with the removal of the obligation of the Spatial Planning Authority, sectoral interests should not be harmed, as public organisations also participate and enforce their will in the preparation process for the settlement arrangements and, even, in the event of a dispute, they may initiate legal supervision procedures. A further guarantee element in the proposal is that exceptions are also mentioned in the draft legislation, so that certain properties identified in the national structural plan cannot be considered as areas intended for incorporation. On the other hand, I would like to mention that the government's priority objective, with the State Reform Programme, is to increase the efficiency of public administration more closely, monitored and cost-effectively in ideas for creating territorial public administration. The primary aim of the reform of the public administration is to reduce bureaucracy, create a friendly public administration and enforce the public interest. The bill before us fits well into this programme and tries to change the procedure currently in force, as it increases the need for changes to the urban planning instrument and the cost of spending. In addition, the modification of settlement arrangements linked to the conduct of spatial planning procedures is not expected to take place by the deadline laid down by law. The minimum need to carry out the settlement planning procedure for demonstrating consistency is four months and the cost is 700 thousand HUF per settlement plus VAT. This is what the proposal wants to do, that is to avoid wasting time and money. That's why I'm asking you to support the bill. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-31-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. Preliminary speaker Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, Member of Jobbik, notary. You have the floor.
u2015-03-31-51	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I'm sorry to interrupt your conversation. [[L. Simon is talking to Dr. Ágnes Molnár.]] I would like to appeal to you as rapporteur because, in addition to supporting this proposal, because we believe that it is essentially a good idea, I have questions, concerns, and I hope that you will help me to clarify or resolve these concerns. I would like to start by saying that the agglomeration law did indeed have a comprehensive review in 2011, but the agglomeration law itself was 2005. In this 2005 law, it is stated that the review of the settlements' already mandatory settlement arrangements every ten years must be carried out in conjunction with the agglomeration law with their own local construction regulations, their regulatory plans and the other, but the government decree itself, which concerns spatial planning procedures, is in 2009. Therefore, between 2005 and 2009, there was a period during which this procedure had not to be carried out for each area intended for installation. I would now like to briefly describe to you what this Government Decree covers, in what cases and in what ways the spatial planning authority procedure can be applied for. For example, if a priority regional plan or a county plan - where appropriate we are talking about the agglomeration plan - does not define individual zones at a depth such as a normal municipal plan, in this case clarification is required. However, there is also an exceptional derogation in the case of the spatial planning authority procedure, such as national technical and infrastructure networks, in the case of a 10 per cent difference in the trail, if there is such a difference between the regional plan and the urban planning instrument. However, this procedure also provides for the possibility to use the legal institution for incorporation of a settlement, i.e. the priority area plan, where appropriate in the case of the agglomeration plan, but the infrastructure network or individual structures included in the urban plan may be integrated. Furthermore, the same legal institution is the issue of exceptional designation, which means - which is a whole new thing in the agglomeration law - that if two settlements are too close to each other, there should be a 200-metre band for both of the two neighbouring settlements, where no settlements can build, in order to prevent the settlements from collapsing, but to ensure a green corridor, and to ensure such green corridors and ecological corridors, the territorial planning procedure, more specifically these ecological corridors, and the exchange of areas where there was an area intended to be built up, and there was an area that has not yet, but in order not to go beyond the 3 percent area increase, could be initiated in such a case. Now, what is before us is an amendment, it is about the fact that an area intended for installation, which was considered to be an installation area before the approved BATRT amendment, i.e. before 2011, but perhaps even during the 2005 and 2009 period, does not have to carry out this spatial planning authority procedure there, even though there was no such spatial planning authority procedure at the time. [[11.30]] I don't know if you understand my problem, Mr. Secretary. So we may grant exemptions in cases that were not originally controlled by this kind of authority. And let's add that there is a preventive phase of the spatial planning procedure, this so-called territorial impact assessment, which is a very detailed story, so that environmental, social and economic investigation should be carried out when amending, where appropriate, a settlement planning instrument, which is a very good thing in my opinion. Perhaps we can agree on that, can't we, Mr. Secretary? Well, you're going to give us an exemption at all, and the bill before us is actually just one sentence, so it's not a very complicated story, but it adds that there are two cases where this exemption doesn't exist. So, if you are not in sync with OTRT or with the national structural plan, or if you are not in sync with the agglomeration plan, if you are talking about individual structures or technical infrastructure networks. But in all the other cases - I have just listed the cases in which spatial planning procedures should be carried out - so in all the other cases it should be carried out, in my understanding, because, in addition to the exception from which the law exempts, such as the issue of land change, the issue of this issue, in this bill, is not clarified. I'm asking you if this is going to cause backlashes, because it's not going to make clear situations for us. That's one of my questions. And the other one is, I'm sure it's the little devil, but you bring this kind of amendment to the House when it comes to specific, individual cases. So let's translate it to Hungarian: a fidesz mayor told you that, uh, there is a problem, we should speed up certain events, where appropriate, a Fidesz investor's interests would be harmed by the need to comply with another and another legal requirement, and that would be an inconvenience, so the law would have to be shaped in their image and likeness, according to their expectations. It is feared that this is also the case, since here you basically describe in the detailed justification that it is not an area classified in a municipal area but intended for incorporation. Let's translate this into Hungarian, what it means, what areas. They are not those that already belong to the core area of a settlement, but somewhere out in the green field, they are assigning a new, say, residential park, say, a golf course, and the rest of them, for such an investment, a given area, and then, in order to achieve it as soon as possible, you are suddenly unexpected to have any control that would otherwise be acceptable and important, you will be removed and given an exceptional procedure. I think that if we could get a meaningful answer from the Secretary of State in this respect, that no, that is not the case, and that these assumptions are completely unfounded on my part. [[L. Simon László: You can have it.]] then we would really be able to say yes to this bill. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-31-52	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I will ask if the other political groups will put forward a keynote speaker. [[For signal:]] Yes, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy, the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2015-03-31-53	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, As has already been said in the expozee, and Mrs Hegedűs Lorántné said, according to the justification of the bill, the aim of the proposal is to ensure that areas, and here the point is, which are intended to be included in and be considered as areas for urban planning, even without carrying out a spatial planning procedure, are defined as areas adopted prior to the adoption of the Law of 2001 amending the agglomeration plan. The amendment, as my fellow Member has said, seems to be positive, since the municipalities in the agglomeration can prepare their settlement arrangements more easily by 31 December 2015 without carrying out a spatial planning procedure, in such a way that areas previously intended for installation are still considered to be such. I will not extend my speech as long as the Member, but the concerns that she has expressed have been raised within us, especially what she said last. We regret that Fidesz has not yet given us reason to assume good intentions and real administrative reductions on its part. As this appears at first glance, this bill can also be included in the bill of law, because the text says that what was previously intended for incorporation must be regarded as such in the future. Therefore, there is no discretion for the municipalities, because if necessary, they must accordingly. Exception is only known if the area concerned falls within the territory of national technical infrastructure networks or specific structures, or in the area of regional technical infrastructure networks or individual structures. In this context, I would like to mention, ladies and gentlemen, that the argument of the reasoning that any real remedy would be available is false, since what kind of a real remedy could otherwise be in such a case, because the law does not allow a derogation in any direction, so there is only one thing to consider in the appeal procedure whether the municipality has actually complied with the law. So the real question that I am asking is what obstacles the government has encountered, what areas it could not simply acquire, why this bill should now be put here. Mr. Secretary, I see on your face that this doesn't exactly please what I'm saying. [[L. Simon László: No, not at all.]] And I understand that. But what you need to understand is that in many cases we have faced personalised legislation, perhaps the remaining time would not be enough to list how many of these things I know, and probably there were quite a few others, which were, too, but it has not been revealed to the greater public. Therefore, we will not give this kind of trust to the government in this bill, we will not support the bill, regardless of whether, at first glance, it does seem to be an administrative relief, but since we cannot rule out the same underlying intention, we will not support the proposal either. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-31-54	Thank you, Congressman. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Dear Parliament, The first independent Member to make a statement may now speak. I declare that Mr László Varju has withdrawn his intention to speak. I therefore ask if any of the independent Members wish to speak. [[Szabolcs Szabó says no.]] They're signaling no. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Sallai Benedek in a 15-minute time frame, it may be Other Politics.
u2015-03-31-55	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, The fact that I am not speaking in a speaker's speech is a sign that the experts of our party considered that there was no political mine to be included in the proposal, which would make it very difficult. At the same time, I have a number of professional questions. Obviously, by looking at the original legislation, Annex No 1, which lists the settlements of the agglomeration area in Budapest in its entirety, we can see here that practically a large number of settlements are falling into this, where there are a multitude of protected, locally protected areas. One of the most important background motivations of the migration process from Budapest to the agglomeration area is to achieve a better quality of life by the population, to live in a green environment and a better environment with better ecological potential. However, this legislation, which has been tabled, or this amendment, who has looked at it, sees that it is practically the only paragraph of a single section, which actually gives this exemption, which has been said by my fellow Members before me. This does not provide for the possibility that if, before 2005, a person tried to designate an area intended to be built up with insufficient wisdom, or perhaps not with regard to conservation rules, this current law would give him the opportunity to pursue any professional, nature conservation aspect. [[11.40]] Let me say that there was also a previous decision by the Constitutional Court on the fact that the settlement of Pomáz in the agglomeration area was trying to take out and build a local protected area. This is one of the famous practice or experience of the Constitutional Court on environmental law, or which is used regularly, because it created the background of the non-revocation, which we so often refer to, because Pomáz at that time resolved the local immunity, claiming that the justification for local protection had ceased, tried to do so. Now there is a multitude of these settlements in a place where different territorial units of the Duna-Ipoly National Park or other local protected areas are located. During our previous debates with Secretary of State L. Simon - I believe that in the malltop law - we basically agreed that we should not support a multitude of greenfield investments, and that is why I am concerned about what plans were made before 2005. In part, I would like to say that it is not enough for me to be reassured by the Minister of State that the Government has no such intention, because I simply believe Mr L. Simon, Secretary of State, that there is no such intention, but that at the municipal level of the settlements, we would only be able to make a competent decision if we looked at the plans for which areas were to be included or allowed to be built before the legislation was born. Since there is no way for the municipalities to support this legislation, it is certain that we cannot support it, because we have the concern that from times when, let us say, the former government may have supported the creation of industrial parks or other insane investments aimed at a green field, there may have been some real estate left in these plans which may already be justified to preserve. This is why we have reservations that, after the presentation obviously does not reveal - I do not know if this has happened, but Mr Secretary of State may be able to tell us - that the government has looked at the plans of each of the municipalities concerned in this direction one by one, how many areas it specifically targets, which are the location numbers, so we do not feel to be eligible for this. If there is an annex in the justification, which lists all the local map numbers for all settlements, and we can see that there is no local protected, Natura 2000 or national protected, or any other green zone classification that has functioned as a local park or otherwise - because of this lack, we do not feel that this is eligible. Obviously, we believe that the government's intention to take this step in order to cut red tape would be to support it, and obviously it would also be more effective if it were to resolve this in the area of administrative administration and not only in the area of agglomeration in Budapest, if it were to liquidate this money from one pocket of the state to another. So this could be a unified solution, but the fact that we refer only to this in the area of Budapest agglomeration is not sufficient, since the rest of the country could have the same criteria. So as long as the government cannot reassure us that there is no intention of the municipalities in all the municipalities belonging to the agglomeration areas in Annex 1 to the legislation - and that is why I said that unfortunately it is not enough only for me, because I believe that the government does not want to do anything wrong, but we do not know what happened to the municipalities before 2005 and what plans have been made. For this reason, I will in no way suggest to our party the support of this, in which I ask for the understanding of the government. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[István Ikotity applauds.]]
u2015-03-31-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. I do not see any further speakers on the screen. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what was said in the debate.
u2015-03-31-57	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for your speeches. I think that the concern of the leading speakers of all three opposition parties is entirely unfounded, and that, in truth, some kind of paranoia is controlling my fellow Members. I cannot accept the argument, honourable Member, that we would sew the coat against the button. The purpose of the legislation and the justification of the legislation are quite clear. In any case, I would like to point out to my fellow Members that 8 out of the 80 settlements of the agglomeration have already adopted their new settlements, 36 have already started the review, and no information is yet available on the other settlements. The estimated size of the settlement number of around 30 affected by the problem - I said in the national expozee that 30-35 settlements might be involved - as settlement planners progress with the revision of the settlement arrangements, the fact of the need for clarification becomes known. The state architect has so far indicated the derogation for the municipalities of Kerepes, Fót, Pilissántó, Perbal, Tinnye, Herceghalom, Ócsa, Délegyháza, Szentendre, Dunakeszi. So I must reassure my fellow Members, the bill is clear, it seeks to remedy their problems and intentions; there is nothing the socialists can visit here about real estate business and doggy, that is not the case at all. At the same time, I would also like to draw the attention of my fellow Member, Mr Barándy, to the fact that the relevant passage was also in the law at the time of your administration and that all settlements could live with it. So I think that the situation is clear: this proposal serves simplification and settlement planning and takes into account the interests and needs of the people in the agglomeration. With all this in mind, I would once again ask my fellow Members to support this proposal with their vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-31-58	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We now have a general debate on the proposal for a decision on the day of Hungarian women's protection until closure. Independently proposed by representatives of Mr Gabriella Selmeczi, Mr Bene Ildikó, Ferenc Hirtl, Mr Gergely Tapolczai and Mr József Kovács H/4036. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr József Kovács, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2015-03-31-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, When the protective service was established, there were two main objectives: reducing infant mortality and strengthening the nation's numbers. The former traditions of mother and child protection, the epidemiological, social, economic and therefore demographic changes of Hungary at the turn of the century, brought the protection network to life. All these traditions and changes continue to define goals, principles and methods. Child and family protection in Hungary is uniquely achieved through the protection service that has been in existence for a hundred years. The right to health is also a human right enshrined in the Fundamental Law, which includes equal access to the necessary healthcare. The effects of health on the economy and the functioning of society in general are very important, but regardless, the individual health of all people is also very valuable. The existence of the Hungarian protective service has been constantly renewed, adapted to the needs and expectations of society. From 1915 he developed a wide system of relationships around him, which also changed with the current situation. In 1915, the National Stefania Association was established to protect mothers and infants. The service considered the family-care approach to be the most fundamental aspect: general family care is in fact a summary and reconciliation of professional protection work for the common goal of health protection. In 1997 the Health Act laid down that local authorities were obliged to provide protective care for primary healthcare. [[11.50]] Regional protective care may be provided by a protective woman with a diploma or a diploma recognised as equivalent in the health college in the area of supply established and established by the body of representatives of the local government. Its task shall be performed in the case of persons with address in the supply area and may be used by those who are living in the area, and shall also be performed by the service if they declare their claim for care in writing. The professional supervision of the activity shall be carried out by the competent head of the Public Health and Public Health Service. The structure of society has changed a lot in nearly a hundred years since its founding, the focus of the profession has shifted. There is, of course, a need to continue to reduce premature births, to reduce abortions, to increase births, but there have also been new problems that need to be solved, such as HIV infection and the spread of drugs. The range of tasks of the protective woman covers the following areas: the protection of women, the care of pregnant and child-bedded mothers, the care of children from birth to the end of compulsory education and the complex care of families. Nor can it be overlooked that the Hungarian protective service is of particular importance for the current demographic challenges affecting Hungary, as promoting childbearing and supporting families is a first priority to this end. For decades, the Hungarian state has provided protection services to help all children conceive, be born and raised in the best possible conditions in health, safety and safety. In Fidesz-KDNP's policy, family and child are the first. In line with this commitment, we have helped and helped families and children with children through a number of measures. Among other things, we restored the three-year-old child, the ged extra came into force, the extra introduction of the ged encourages childbearing, helps raise children and provides better conditions for working with parents with small children. We also help parents with small children with a nursery program. In addition to tax reductions, family tax incentives and reductions, we also reduce children's schooling obligations. We provide more resources than ever for children's meals. Our important objective is also that we want as many children as possible to grow up in the family, so in recent years Fidesz-KDNP has taken a number of important measures to facilitate adoption, thus reducing administration and introducing adoption. In addition to the above measures, we have always been committed to strengthening the protective service and promoting the work of women in charge. As a result of the changes, municipal authorities have had the opportunity to conclude financing contracts for part-time school protective services as of 1 May 2011. The amendment was of great help to the municipalities of small settlements in particular. The regulation introduced in 2012 led to a 13 percent increase in the forint score for female protection funding from the previous average HUF 279.8 to HUF 315.8 at the time. The amendment of the Government Decree of October 2013 also provided for a further increase in the basic health care provision. Compared to the November 2012 funding data, the increase in funding in November 2013 was an average HUF 13 800 surplus for the monthly financing of the territorial protection services, while for the school protective service the monthly funding was an average increase of HUF 13 400 for each of the women. In February 2014, it was revised again, which led to an increase of HUF 1.75 billion in the appropriation for maternity, child and youth services for 2014. This amount shall be used in full to increase the remuneration of service providers providing protective care. In addition to the above financing changes, an important objective is to improve the protection system by preserving the values of the protection system as a Hungaricum, to achieve a more modern operation, in order to ensure a more effective involvement in preventive care. The state of health of the Hungarian population requires that the protective network be more connected to primary and secondary prevention not only in childhood, but also in adults. This could, in the long term, be part of the strategic development of the defence network and, at the same time, the achievement of a higher level of quality care. The protective service in Hungary provides a complex, preventive family protection service, which is unique in Europe. Protective work shall only be carried out by a person with a degree in college obtained from a nurse's degree. He primarily performs his professional activities on his own, but regularly communicates with health care, child welfare and public education professionals. He has a close personal relationship with his caregivers, providing health, social, mental health and advice in their various problems according to individual needs. In addition, it carries out screening tests and organises, prepares vaccinations, provides health education and other health protection community programmes for caregivers. Nearly 4,500 women throughout the country have been serving for decades. The main activity of the patron is prevention, humane, supportive care, whose core values are acceptance and assistance.In 2013, the Hungarian protective service received the Hungarian Heritage Award, and in 2014 it was added to the Magyar Értéktár. We also believe that the 100-year-old protective service is a national value and is in the process of being declared a Hungaricum. The fact that on this day, June 13, 1915, the National Stefania Association was founded with the patronage of the royal princess Stefania on June 13, 1915, also justifies the declaration of an excellent day. The structure of society has changed a lot over the hundred years since its founding, but the protection of families, children, youth and women remains a priority in the everyday activities of women's women. We place great emphasis on the professional knowledge and competences of the women in our further improvements planned to improve the health of the population. On the basis of the above, the parliamentary decision is intended to confirm the public appreciation of the Hungarian office of defence and service. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-03-31-60	Thank you, Congressman József Kovács. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone on the government's side wants to speak now. [[For signal:]] The Secretary of State says yes. I give the floor to Secretary of State Gábor Zombor in a 30-minute time frame. [[12.00]]
u2015-03-31-61	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that Parliament is discussing a proposal for a resolution, which should be supported by everyone, and we hope that it will also support, because it is indeed a value of Hungarian social arrangement, Hungarian historicalism and Hungarian health care, on which there is also a place for official appreciation on the 100th anniversary of the celebration. The proposal, the request made by the Member and other fellow Members, is fully supported by the Government. It supports and also sees a development opportunity to further develop the patronage service as a hungaricum as part of the Hungarian heritage and to provide them with new opportunities, professional development opportunities and new tasks, since in the fact that Hungarian public health can be one of the most stable at international level, the protective service has a very important role to play. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] There is a new basic health care law, one of the key chapters of which is the section on the protective service, where we are planning not only to strengthen previous tasks and functions, to rethink the conditionality, but also to put into a new dimension the patrons, the patrons' duties, because in the task of early intervention, which could coordinate the lives of children and families from birth to kindergarten, we are planning to give a prominent role to the patrons, and I think that in this law - if we are able to declare on the day of women's defences - this endeavour will be successful for both Parliament and the government. I, too, suggest to my fellow Members that they support this proposal for a resolution. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-31-62	Thank you, too. Welcome. We will continue to work with speeches by Members and keynote speakers. First, I give the floor to Mrs Bene Ildikó, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2015-03-31-63	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As has already been highlighted, the parliamentary decision aims to strengthen the public appreciation of the Hungarian profession and service of patrons. It should be mentioned that in all respects the protective network is a very serious achievement of Hungarian health care, a common national treasure for all of us. The existence of the Hungarian protective service has been constantly renewed, adapted to the needs and expectations of society at all times, and since 1915 it has developed a wide system of relationships around it. In the protective care process, the main focus is on prevention, and trust capital is the most solid foundation of their profession, as we know that in many places the protective woman is almost a family member. Renewal and development of the protective service is a priority government task. The European Union's projects, the patronage cervical screening programme and the early childhood programme, the multi-stage increase in funding and the initiative to promote Hungaricum indicate the appreciation of the profession. I would like to address with my comment the great and joyful protection women's projects currently taking place, which include women involved in projects with extraordinary professional vocation. One of these programmes - and this has been mentioned by the Secretary of State - is the Early Childhood Programme, which accompanies children between the ages of 0-7. The project will include methods such as identifying risk and protective factors that hinder the development of the child and facilitating early detection of development problems; promoting the modern and uniform knowledge, approach and practical knowledge of workers in the basic care of children; improving the knowledge of parents and the transfer of knowledge, the aim of the project is to raise awareness of the importance and parental responsibility of the first years; supporting electronic data flow and data collection between women in charge of the child; improving the profession of patroness, organisational and methodological support necessary for the performance and development of the tasks of individual protection areas. The results of research show that the quality of pregnancy, childbirth, and subsequent very sensitive periods, with emphasis on the period of three years and up to seven years, is essential for the future integration of children, their ability to learn and their behaviour. Early childhood events determine the child's productivity, quality of life and future for life. Another extremely important project is the national extension of protective cervical cancer screening. In doing so, more than a thousand women of protection will receive training through theoretical, communication and practical training. In our country - and this has been discussed several times in Parliament - cervical cancer is the second most common type of cancer among women aged 15-44, and every year we lose more than 1,200 women. Regular screening of women between the ages of 25 and 65 is ensured today in Hungary, but the willingness to filter is extremely low. The epidemiological studies performed have shown that the development of cervical cancer is more than 90 percent related to human papillomavirus infection. It is very welcome that, according to the government's decision, the vaccine against HPV was included in the vaccination programme from 2014. For the first time, girls who had reached the age of 12 could have received it in the course of school campaigns. It is of the utmost importance that the call for vaccination is accompanied by an information programme emphasising the importance of screening. At the moment, we can say that we are talking about a graft of over 80 percent, which is also the highest in Europe. The aim of the project is to enable women to take a swab for cervical cancer on their own, and direct contact with the population gives them the opportunity, in particular, to personally visit women from the target group of screening in disadvantaged settlements who have been in such a study for no or only a very long time. The inclusion of the protective network in the cervical cancer screening process, including mobilisation for medical screening, will significantly improve the availability and accessibility of screening for the target group in the long term, thereby contributing to the reduction of cervical cancer deaths by women in the cervix. As the above projects show, the protective service in Hungary provides a complex, preventive family protection service, which is unique in Europe, but also overseas. They primarily perform their professional activities on their own, but they have regular contacts with health, child welfare, social care systems, public education professionals, and directly with families and mothers. In view of the above, in particular of the professional vocation and the sacrifice of those who perform the profession, and the important role of their profession in our lives, I ask you to support this proposal. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-31-64	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, head speaker of the MSZP. Here.
u2015-03-31-65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, The aim of the proposal is to give worthy recognition to the protection system, which is now a hundred years old. Speaking of which, the 100th anniversary of the establishment of the Hungarian protective service. The draft declares 13 June as the day of Hungarian women's protection and calls on the healthcare providers, institutions and social organisations concerned, and at the same time invites the public to celebrate it together in a dignified framework. The development of basic health care, including protective care, school health care, is also particularly important, not just for general health care. This level is best able to carry out basic screening tests and health assessment, thus giving priority to prevention in the immediate environment of the population, in its place of residence. [[12.10]] The infrastructure of the basic health care system is territorially unbalanced, with a large number of medical clinics, women's counsellors and school health clinics in poor condition or with incomplete or outdated means, particularly in disadvantaged areas. There are also problems with the human capacity of the basic healthcare system. The issues of migration, corps, replacements, vocational training are also a problem. All of this causes a shortage of professionals. According to the data, there are over 4,000 territorial protective services and over a thousand school protective services. The number of the latter has decreased. It is worth noting that on average 265 persons were cared for in a circuitary protective service and 855 persons were cared for in a school protective service. That's a huge strain. In addition, there are at least 300 unfilled zones, and only part of it is replaced. Yesterday, at the committee meeting, I also said that the protection of women system is lacking in resources. This is what our amendment tried to remedy, which was submitted to the 2015 budget, which would have increased the budget line for the protection of mothers, children and young people by HUF 10 billion. This line also includes expenditure on protective services, school health care as well as the financing of breast milk collection stations and special care for children, in the form of an appropriation for maternal, paediatric and infant protection. Unfortunately, our amendment was not supported. According to the approved budget, by 2015, the patronage service was HUF 22.5 billion, while last year it was HUF 20.7 billion. Last year, on a written question in the summer, we asked when all the women in charge would finally receive the wage increase they promised, because it is a prerequisite for good work to get adequate pay for the women in charge. We received this answer:. The financing of primary care, such as protective care, increased in 2012, 2013 and 2014. Based on the data of the National Health Insurance Fund, since 2012, the funding fee for one territorial protection service has increased by more than 25 per cent and by more than 65 thousand forints per month. The funding of the school services increased by more than 31 percent and by more than 75 thousand HUF per month. The legislative provisions relating to the increase in funding clearly reflect the legislator's intention to incorporate the surplus thus received into the remuneration of the women in charge. The aim of the proposal, the recognition of the women's and the female's work, is difficult for anyone to dispute. This was also said at the committee meeting yesterday. The Association of Hungarian Protectors has launched a series of programs to honor the centenary. Speaking of the date, the National Stefania Association was established in Budapest on 13 June 1915 in the assembly hall of the new Town Hall for the organization of mother and infant protection. For this reason, the day of the patrons is already considered as the day of the 13th of June, and this day has long been celebrated in many places in the country. If a seal is added to this tradition by the adoption of the parliamentary decree, we can now officially celebrate this day. I've been told this before, but there's not enough time to say it, and I'll say it again. The former traditions of mother and child protection, the social, economic and therefore demographic changes of Hungary at the turn of the century, have brought the protective network to life, which until today have clearly defined objectives, principles and methods. I was told that there were two main objectives: infant mortality and the numerical strengthening of the nation at the time of its formation. The basic condition of protection is that a mother should not get into a worse economic situation because she gives birth to a new person and raises a child. The mother and her unborn child should be protected from the dangers of the birth process. It should be possible for every mother to breast-feed her own baby. Ignorance should be banished from raising babies by providing adequate information to mothers. Society should recognize the enormous national peril of great infant mortality. At the time, in countries where there were similar problems and tasks, mother and child protection worked primarily on the principle that a mother in need or in difficulty should visit institutions that could provide assistance and advice. The Hungarian method was completely different. The backbone of the whole action should be trained by professional and well-trained women's organisations. As the public health of the whole country rests on the medical faculty, obstetrics rests on well-trained midwives, so mother and infant protection must rest on theoretically and practically qualified professional protective bodies. Vilmos Tauffer put the Hungarian method of mother and infant protection in this way:. We must enter the people, visit him in his home, gain confidence, overcome his prejudice towards the new, and take him out of the clutches of bad habits and superstitions if we are to wait for him to come to us for advice and help: our cause is lost. This work requires society's own child, who is more or less intimate with the birth mother and family. To visit and gain the trust of the mother in her home, raising a parent to breast-feed and raise her baby in health. In the protection zone, preferably during pregnancy and with the onset of childbirth, you should try to find out if you can help with hygiene, social support, or if you need money. I believe that these were very important initiatives at the time. As a result and in recognition of initial efforts and well-organised professional work, the network was gradually and continuously expanded. This is how the principle was enriched in 1926:. The aim is not to cure the disease, but to eliminate, in addition to teaching and education, all the conditions that could harm the development and viability of the future generation. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. From the mid-20s the age of care was extended from 3 years to 6 years in order to reduce infant mortality. From 1930 onwards, the country's economic situation did not allow for further expansion, and in some cases the conditions of operation became uncertain. The differences in professional management have made the situation worse. The whole point of the debate was that mother and infant protection work was unfairly turned against the general health protection system and the approach of family care. Between 1927 and 1940, the Stefania Association operated in parallel with the Green Cross Health Service. It is very important what the actors themselves, the patronesses, say about their own profession. I would like to read out a quote from this:. If we ask the women in charge, in most cases we get the answer from them that, despite all the difficulties, they are very fond of this profession, they are glad to have chosen it. It is a success for them to receive a child, and it is good to see that parents are able to find their new roles in a changed situation. Seeing and accompanying the development of young children also brings much joy and success. Despite all its beauty, however, this profession also has serious difficulties. The experience of severe diseases and extreme poverty is a serious task for women, but neglect or abuse of children may be the most difficult psychological burden for all helpers. The situation is exacerbated by the fact that she herself is experiencing a serious ethical dilemma when she encounters such a case. You have many, many factors to consider, and often you find yourself in a very difficult decision-making situation. It is an important and great help to prepare for university training, but it is not always enough to compensate for daily difficulties. [[12.20]] In addition to her knowledge, knowledge, experience, and skill, she works with her main work tool, her personality, as well as all other helpers, such as doctors and psychologists. Just as in any profession, the protective woman must maintain her work equipment, because it is her responsibility to help the lives of families with a healthy personality and harmonious presence every day. I think that's the most important wording that the patroness herself has written about what her job is. The Hungarian Socialist Party, of course, supports the initiative and we will vote in favour. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-03-31-66	Thank you very much. The next keynote speaker is Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann, lead speaker of KDNP. Here you go.
u2015-03-31-67	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Rarely joyful moments of parliamentary work are those that we are experiencing now, when prepared speakers praise the work of representatives of a profession that has done a great deal for a hundred years or more to enable Hungarian society to say happy, healthy families as many as possible. The speakers before me practically exhausted the subject, so I decided, by way of derogation from my pre-written text, to put only a few highlights, and, of course, to repeat, of course, what the speakers before me have said. My fellow Member, József Kovács, who, as I understand it, is a doctor in civil matters, has very nicely summarized the historical and professional aspects of the profession of patroness and patroness. I emphasized that he is a doctor, because this also shows that we are dealing with employees for whom healthy babies, a healthy family, are all the goals they have devoted their lives to. But my two first-name fellow Members, Ildikó, also contributed a great deal to these speeches. It is rare to have such a consensus between parliamentary parties in the assessment of a profession. This also shows that women in charge, who have been silent, non-flareful employees of health care and family protection, have long been doing their job for a great deal of public satisfaction. However, I would like to point out that in the most important task, they may be invisible, perhaps immeasurable, but still do a great deal, and this is the protection of the health of families, and the care of the health of the unborn baby. I'm sure many of us as parents have experienced the moments when we didn't want to take the child to the doctor because of a rash, a stomachache, a symptom of a disease, but she was there, she helped us, she gave us her advice. The emphasis is on the council. The advice must have at least two actors, one who gives the advice, the other who accepts it. Therefore, it is very important for the country's public to face up to the work of the women in charge from time to time, to be open to the adoption of advice, because it is only then that the women in charge can do their job effectively. And that the advice is not unprepared, but with serious expertise, it is assured that in Hungary the profession of patroness is now linked to higher education, making them real co-workers of doctors and other health workers. We can be proud of the fact that we are once again faced with a Hungaricum with a 100-year history, which, if not completely unique in Europe, is unique in terms of the methods developed here, and which many health professionals from foreign countries prefer to study and continue to set a good example. It is good to know that the Hungarian state and the Hungarian government are in favour of this profession and are making efforts to further strengthen and increase the work of the patroness. That is what we have heard from the words of Secretary of State Gábor Sombor. I would also like to mention that, while our public life is, unfortunately, not joyfully transcribed by the negative side effects of scandalous events in various professions, I do not recall that in recent decades there has been a scandal, a problem, which would have shown the relaxation of this profession. It will be a hundred years ago on June 13th that the association, which brings together the patrons in a professional manner, has today been the worthy successor of the Association of Hungarian Protectors, and the password of this association: patrons for healthy, happy families. A society, including Hungary, will be healthy and happy if such babies are there, if that's what families are like. That is why thanks and thanks to the patronesses that they do a great deal with their own vocations and sacrifices in order to make them as many of our families as possible. The Christian Democratic People's Party welcomed this initiative and, as the leading speakers before me have mentioned, we wholeheartedly and wholeheartedly support it. I hope that from now on there will be even bigger and even louder news from 13 June around the country. But do not make the mistake that we usually make with a few commemorative days or some celebrations, that we appoint a day as a day of vocation, and in the other three hundred and sixty-some days of the year, we forget about them. The patronesses practice a profession that deserves attention, care and reciprocation of the love that we Hungarian families, Hungarian mothers and Hungarian children receive from them every day of the year.
u2015-03-31-68	Thank you very much. Mr László György Lukács is the leading speaker of Jobbik. Here.
u2015-03-31-69	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, H/4036. The proposal for a resolution, which provides for the Memorial Day of the Hungarian Heritage Award-winning patronage service established a hundred years ago, and which declares 13 June 2015 as the day of the Hungarian women's defense, is supported by the Jobbik Hungary movement. He supports it because he agrees with the proposal for a resolution, and he himself believes that the representatives of Jobbik believe that the protection service of Hungaricum is a value that is recognised at the highest state and social level. It also supports and considers the proposal for a decision to be important because a complex understanding of the problem, the profession of women in charge, requires precisely the establishment of the general public and the width of the information, which can be ensured through the debate on the day of memory and on the proposal for a decision, which highlights the important role of the women in charge, and draws attention to the problems, but also to the results related to the work of the women in charge. Thank you very much for the fact that my fellow Members have partly mentioned the historical facts, the results that the protective service has achieved over the last hundred years. I think that these are correct, and it was very important that they were said within the walls of this House. But I think it is also worth highlighting some of the issues, some of the results - those I have gathered in three points - that must be brought to the attention of the plenum and, through this, also the public's attention. The first of these is the essence of protective service. As has been said many times, in line with the needs of the family, the protective woman provides guidance on family planning, pregnancy, infant nutrition, mobility, but also on the importance of vaccinations, and on the issues of health care, on how to educate the family and maintain their health. By the way, the results show, and this is one of the most important cornerstones of the protective service, that it has achieved significant results in the most important areas, such as the spectacular decline in infant mortality, almost all over the world, in the only childhood vaccination figures that Mrs. [[12.30]] Of course, remembering that there are still challenges with infant mortality in Hungary at regional level. Unfortunately, in North-East Hungary, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county is still a major challenge, as well as in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county the high level of infant mortality. This should not only be written at the expense of the women in charge, but also not at the expense of the women in charge, so it is not their responsibility, it is a complex, systemic and social, social and sociocultural problem in these regions. Furthermore, it is undisputed that the Hungaricum of the protective service is justified on the basis of the experience gathered, and - as has already been said - it has come to the attention of everyone in this world, and they come here from all over the world to examine the Hungarian Protection Service. That's exactly what proves it's a Hungaricum. I think that if there is anything else that can be added, it is that this Memorial Day is created or declared. In doing so, we can take a new step towards qualifying as Hungaricum, which may have been slowing down a little lately. But all recognition is needed, going back to the original starting point, which shows recognition for any health profession, and commends those in any healthcare profession. Thus, the present day is very important, as was the day of the Hungarian nurses, and its public recognition. However, it may be worth drawing attention to the fact that, on Memorial Days, there are dangers when commemorating Memorial Days and setting a special memorial day for each health worker. Perhaps it is worth defining conceptually what are the cornerstones that can be followed. Of course, the centenary of Hungarian women has given us a particular reason and reason to raise the Memorial Day for them this year, however, to the level of public recognition. However, it is also important to know that while healthcare workers, such as nurses, are represented with 60,000 people, the number of women who will now receive recognition is between 4000 and 4030. Of course, I do not dispute the importance of the Memorial Day, but I draw attention to the fact that there would be other health workers who should also receive similar public recognition, so to speak, moral recognition. I am sorry to make criticisms, but I think that once on a debate day, I am sorry, during a debate on a proposal for a decision, there will be the role of the patroness, the whole problem, the professional need, and the obligation to the profession to draw attention to problematic cases and points of focus; and also to make critical comments that will enable the profession to make progress, to anticipate and to draw attention to the current problems in the profession, Mr Secretary of State, but also to legislation. After all, we are the ones who can eliminate these anomalies, these shortcomings and emergencies. So I mentioned one; it was a series of memorial days. Here, however, I suggest that consideration be given to it, and then consideration should be given to the ways in which we can give similar appreciation or recognition to healthcare workers. It may be necessary to avoid very fragmented commemorative days, for this is one way to convey a worse social message. And indeed, as Rózsa Hoffmann said, it is only possible that the public or the public will devote one day to this day, and the remaining three hundred and sixty-somedays will not estimate the protective network or, where appropriate, other health workers in that volume. Other current challenges need to be tackled and faced. One of these current challenges was the fiasco of a selective wage increase in 2013. This is only interesting because there is virtually no government in the government, and the State Secretary for Health is trying to partly represent similar principles and guidelines, which had already begun in health care. Therefore, we must learn from the 2013 selective wage increase, which led up to the fact that the women of the defence turned to the Constitutional Court for their own wage increase, otherwise about six months behind schedule. Here, by the way, the Hungarian Health Professionals' Association and hundreds of patrons have arranged the petition that the women working in the primary care have been adversely affected by this increase in wages. This may have to be an exclamation mark and a flashing signal in front of the government that similar selective wage increases will always result in such wage tensions. Perhaps the case of women in charge here, two years ago, has highlighted the need to be careful with such increases. The other fiasco is a new case, which also drew attention to an interesting anomaly, related to cervical cancer screening. This has also been mentioned. Here, a delay in cervical cancer screening by the protective women was introduced in 9/2015. by a mixed regulation of professional wallets. In the amendment, the deadline of 1 May 2015 was extended to 1 October, when the protective women should be equipped with general and special equipment for cervical cancer screening. For example, broadband internet access or the gynaecological examination table. This slip is also an exclamation mark, although it is a small mistake, but we must also show seriousness by trying to eliminate such mistakes. The other very interesting point is that the tools, for the time being, do not seem to be received by the women in charge, but they have already received a deadline, and in essence they have to complete 40-hour training until 31 December 2018 and they have to prove it. I believe that in this area, too, we should certainly neglect unfriendly measures. I know that, by the way, the State Secretary for Health is seeking to make life as comfortable as possible for health professionals and to make a smooth transition to whatever innovation there is, but these possibilities must be constantly filtered so that they do not succeed in being unfriendly, for example, in the case of women's rights, in the case of certain mixed regulations and amendments to regulations. Another very interesting issue is pay. Here, health care, let's just say, is facing a completely devastating wage-setting problem, and the otherwise around 4,000 women are also affected by the lack of their own wage bill and the still screaming nature of the wage-setting. He's in the same shoes here, which I said earlier, whether it's the nurses or the doctors' payroll. The women in charge aren't much better off either. Their wages, too, were very, uh, arguably low, and the changes in the last 25 years can be traced. They also work for a rather low wage, even after 40 years of service, and they receive a rather weak wage compared to a Hungarian average salary. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary to achieve a fair wage, if we are to ensure at all that, out of the otherwise 4400 districts, at least the 4100 districts where there is now a supply are insured. It's already been mentioned to me that there are nearly 300 unfilled zones. I would just like to draw attention to the parallelity and similarity, the other line of basic care, the persistently unfilled or unfilled GP practices, which show roughly similar numbers. So there are very interesting parallels in this, too. Perhaps one solution might bring us a little closer to the other, making it easier to solve problems globally. The fourth problem is a public health objective that has been involved in the functioning of women's women and the problem of competing public health objectives and programmes. This is about the fact that the government has created a serious competitor for the activities of the protection women by applying public health screenings and preventive medicine in the framework of EU projects, but also in the framework of projects launched by itself. We see that they are running at the same time as OFI... - this has now undergone a name change, but the health development offices are also at some level competing with the women in charge, and at the current level of funding, it is not certain that they will be able to compete with the European Union project, which is otherwise forced and temporary. What we see is that billions of people are obviously going to start EU projects, which also serve a good purpose. So here I am not arguing that they do not serve a good purpose, only this leaves a parallelity in the system, and the women in charge themselves feel that, in many cases, it works at their expense, at the expense of their activities. The fifth problem point relates to child abuse and child neglect. [[12.40]] Here, too, there is a key role for the women in charge, and this is perhaps the most stressful area of the psychic. Here, too, we see that those number and pay gaps hinder women from doing a thorough job, so we see that thorough work could only be done with the right number of districts, and then there would not be such sad cases as the child abuse cases that the media has said in recent weeks and months, and that they could respond much more effectively and much faster to the women in the child protection signalling system. So I think that it could also be a very important step forward that, in addition to the current area numbers, quality work cannot be ensured, so some development, wage planning and rethinking plans are absolutely necessary in relation to child neglect and abuse. One last problem, it's a question of supply. As, unfortunately, most of the health professions, the profession of patroness does not offer an attractive profession, so the replacement here is a critical point, as is the case with general practitioners or any other healthcare workers. It has been drawn up here before, and this is definitely a good view that it would also be justified to introduce a separate wage table for the patrons, which might be a solution to this. However, to sum up what I have said, and not just to reveal unpleasant or slightly more uncomfortable problems as a last word, it is worth summing up that the Memorial Day is a really good opportunity to conduct such a debate, which, on the one hand, draws attention to the values that the national protective service and the work that has been done for 100 years. And this debate certainly draws attention to the problems that need to be resolved, but also calls for proposals for solutions which have been partially discussed and perhaps will be addressed as a closing point by the Secretary of State. As I said earlier, Jobbik supports the proposal for a resolution and proposes to move forward on the issues raised here, which have otherwise been raised as problems, to the Secretary of State and, moreover, to the Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-31-70	Thank you very much. Mr István Ikotity, the lead speaker of the LMP is next. Here.
u2015-03-31-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, On the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the founding of the Hungarian Heritage Award-winning Hungarian Protection Service, the National Assembly will declare 13 June 2015 as the day of the Hungarian Protection Women's Day. This is an important symbolic gesture, although it is obvious that the patronage profession alone is not enough to appreciate work. In fact, there is no such universal, child-wide service anywhere in the world that is similar to the Hungarian defence network. Protectors play an important role in protecting the health of families they care for. Their task is to provide guidance on family planning, pregnancy, infant feeding, the importance of vaccinations, tailored to the needs of the family. Their preventive work is also responsible for the reduction of infant mortality, the improvement of high childhood grafting and lactation rates. The work of Hungarian women of defence is vital, which is why it is important that they also receive proper moral and financial recognition. Unfortunately, there is much more to be done in this area. There are currently about 4,500 women in the country, most of whom work under very poor conditions. The protection system is underfunded, the women in charge are poorly paid and burdened, while they are the ones who play the role of the primary filter. In their contact with families, they are the first to intervene for the healthy development of the child. We hope that, in addition to the day of Hungarian women's protection, a number of measures will be taken to make the profession of patroness attractive. Unfortunately, it is not what is well shown today that there is a very high proportion of unfilled protective positions and areas with permanent substitutions, as well as very high fluctuations. While the number of people cared for by one woman is 250, in case of substitution, this number can reach up to 500. Compared to unrealistic stress, the starting gross wage of women is 122 thousand forints and only 196 thousand forints after 40 years of work. In addition to the fact that there are a lot of caregivers for a protective woman, most of their work is done by the administration. The four-year training of women in Hungary is unique, but this is too medicalized, it focuses exclusively on the health role of the female defender, even though the work of the female protector is complex assistance. Women visiting families should not only have health, but also social and psychological knowledge, and training should therefore be given much more emphasis on social and mental health. It is the women who get to know the family, their everyday problems during family visits, who are the first to intervene for the well-being of the child. The problem of training is that there is no adequate training to detect cases of domestic violence. Even though there is a methodological guide on how to recognise child abuse and what steps to take, appropriate training does not appear in training and is not called for later and the signalling system is not working effectively. The recognition of cases of child abuse is key to women's protection alongside the other members of the signalling system. However, they do not create the conditions for training, reducing the workload, setting up appropriate districts and adequate wages. In short, I would like to mention the position of Minister for the renewal of the Hungarian defence network, which was held by Gabriella Bábiné Sottfried in the previous term. As we know, the ministerial commissioner was responsible for, among other things, the establishment of a national protective service, the coordination of the creation of a single protective regulation, the development of a new pregnancy guide, the national extension of the protective cervical cancer screening and the introduction of a new reporting system under the early childhood programme. It was also responsible for coordinating IT procurement. It is planned that tablets would have been given to all women in charge to keep in constant contact not only with home-grown pediatricians, gynecologists, but also with obstetricians and gynecologists in their care. The Minister's Commissioner has also received a source of 700 million, and I would like to ask what has been done with these tasks. The LMP therefore supports the fact that 13 June 2015 will be the day of the Hungarian women's defense, but it should be seen that symbolic gestures, making the defence women's network hungaricum and such actions are not yet adequate to give proper recognition to the patronage profession. Uncertainty, inability to make ends meet, and extremely burdened women would only be able to carry out their duties at the expense of superhuman efforts. That is why we are asking the government not only to deal with symbolic matters but also with real problems and to strengthen the protection network in this way. [[Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2015-03-31-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Dear Parliament, I am now asking if any of the independent Members who are present wish to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] He doesn't want to live. This will speed things up. Two-minute speeches may follow. Mr Nándor Gúr asked for a two-minute speech, MSZP. Here you go.
u2015-03-31-73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to make three points. One is that I consider myself very important to commemorate, to commend the case, but I would like to point out that recognition is at least as important, and that tangible recognition for everyday work is at least as important. At the time and when, in terms of wages, about, let's say, a midterm female defender receives 115-120 thousand grosses, a higher education of 150-160 thousand forints gross, I think there is something to be done about it. At a time when more than 300 of about 5200 positions of women are vacant, there is obviously also a reason for this, and the reason for the fact that there is something to be done here is likely to be that there is something to be done in terms of pay. At a time when Minister Balog talks about 700 million forints being spent in 2015 for the development of the network, I think it is worth reconsidering: 700 million forints or much more. [[12.50]] In terms of basic health care, the GP and the protective services are the two basic pillars. Therefore, the strengthening of this protective service beyond the general medical service may also be worth supporting with greater conditions of resources. And one more thing I would like to draw our mutual attention to is that, above all, where the situation is most difficult, in the regions with multiple disadvantages, the problems are the biggest, you know and know that. I would therefore like to ask you with great respect that your thinking and your actions focus on this direction, in order to help people living and living in complexly disadvantaged areas with cumulative disadvantages. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-03-31-74	Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with speeches from Members who have asked for a normal word. First, Congressman László Varga, MSZP. Here you go.
u2015-03-31-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, There is a great agreement between the representatives of the parties and factions to hold this memorial day from here on in Hungary, to support the proposal, as Hungaricum is the Hungarian protective service, which is 100 years old this year. This proposal is therefore worthy and symbolic. However, I would also stress what kind of sacrifice they are doing, under what difficult circumstances and under what low financial appreciation the women in charge are today in Hungary. In addition, I would like to place particular emphasis on the fact that, for example, in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county, 30-40 of the 500 positions of the female defender are still vacant, which has been reported in recent years. As it was written in these news, especially at the ends, so these jobs are unfilled in areas where there is perhaps the greatest need for female protection. So what I would like to say to the government is that, in addition to this symbolic recognition being made, there is a real need for tangible steps, this hungaricum, the 100-year Hungarian protective service, should be valued in this way, too. However - perhaps surprisingly - I would add a little bit to the content of the symbolic proposal, although not with a specific amendment motion, but with just one suggestion. One of the settlements of my constituency is Parasznya, where Viktória Wagner, one of the best-known Hungarian patrons, was born with a green cross, where she lived well in the village and lived in Miskolc and its surroundings, where she still owns the local government's birthplace. He's probably the most respected, well-known, symbolic figure in the last hundred years, with undivided respect for everyone. Every year they commemorate it, visit its birthplace, there is a plaque here, and after its death, part of it was collected from Kiskundorozsma by women defending its legacy, the Association of Hungarian Protectors and those who helped with this work. However, the building itself, I think, is in no state worthy of his memory, and to manage his legacy in this form is not appropriate. Obviously, Parasnya is a small settlement, there is no way to bring this building from its own strength to an appropriate state, and I suggest that we use this centenary to give it a worthy memory. I ask Mr. Secretary of State to convey to the government my request to find a source to put this building in an appropriate state, that we can properly present the legacy of Viktória Wagner to a wider public; in professional circles, among his admirers, among the Hungarian women's society, it is obviously well known that there is his legacy, smaller groups visit it regularly, but I think it could be remembered much more worthy than this. So in addition to drawing attention to the struggle of everyday life, the lack of financial appreciation and difficult working conditions, which we naturally support, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély said from our group, and I also wanted to draw attention to this problem concerning my constituency and the village of Parasnya. I ask you, Secretary of State, to help me deal with this problem in the interest of a worthy memorial. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-03-31-76	Thank you very much. Mr. Sallai R. Benedict, LMP.
u2015-03-31-77	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I too thank you for the presentation, and as our lead speaker, our party obviously supports this proposal, which deals with the creation of the day of Hungarian women's protection in two paragraphs and three points. I don't know how to create a day for such women and such days, but in fact, I would have been happy and would have been much happier about this proposal if, in general, there had been a legislative amendment proposal aimed at improving these services and improving this whole institutional background. The problem is that it didn't happen, because it obviously gives me the impression that if the government can't create good working conditions, it can't pay enough, it can't change its approach to the system a little according to the age, it will at least bring them a day, and it will make up for this failure, which is obviously wrong. So it would have been good if we'd dealt with it. There is much to talk about why it is good that there are women in charge, and a lot of people think that the United States is a very developed state, for example, but at the same time an American midwife was recently in Hungary, in a presentation she pointed out how incredible it is to have this protective network in Hungary and how much this is the result of Hungarian health care, because in the United States, the health indicators related to motherhood are virtually very bad, and Hungary can obviously admit this to be a serious result. But if you'll excuse me, my fellow Member and previous speakers have already given me just enough appreciation, so I would like to point out what it is that should be considered about this service. Because mandatory protective services are often a burden for mothers. In cases where a expectant mother is under ongoing medical supervision, she is constantly supervising her condition or attends an independent midwife, in which case making an additional, additional service mandatory may not be justified and may not be used to harass parents. In many cases, especially in cities, if available, private, selected gynecologists are involved in pregnancy care, continuous supervision, and in addition, it would be worth considering how justified this mandatory service is. Why is it impossible to achieve that if anyone has a certificate from an independent midwife or a gynecologist that they regularly take part in pregnancy care, they should not have to allow the protective woman into their apartment for environmental studies or other reasons, which is a problem with having a designated system, because this necessarily implies a trust relationship. Why is it not possible to make the protective system optional, and why, say, per residential area or other definition when parents cannot determine their personal preferences in one settlement? This is one of those times where not only the quality of the work of the patrons could improve, but the care itself would also be better for those who use the service, for mothers or future mothers. So, I think it would be a good idea to leave out women in charge if a mother brought a certificate from a nurse's doctor or midwife, so that she would have more power and time for those who do not have the quality of care or can't choose it for financial reasons. And this would be a more efficient use of resources, because let's face it, in a number of cases, Hungarian society still has a segment that can provide itself with sufficient background for this kind of care, and it would be much better to focus on those future parents where this is much more necessary. Besides, the protection system could be of much more benefit, resources could be used better and more efficiently, and it would be essential that women in charge have effective assistance techniques to communicate with mothers and families of different backgrounds and different world-views. And some people don't need help, they deal with them much less. It would be very, very necessary for women in charge to have continuous training after higher education, for example from advanced breast-feeding support skills, in line with the objective recently set by Secretary of State Katalin Novák in an inforadio interview. Katalin Novak, what you said on the radio, must also be fully supported as an opposition party. In line with the World Health Organisation's recommendation, the aim is to ensure that breast feeding up to six months of age is as frequent as possible, such as breast-feeding places in offices, medical clinics, public institutions in general, or even Parliament could set an example in this area. At the moment, even the child is banned from Parliament. There was a case of this in previous cycles, wasn't it, that the baby might have gone to a parent, what was the reaction to this? Everyone's banned. While the European Parliament can, without further ado, be breast-fed by a female Member during a sitting. [[13.00]] It would be good if we set an example and installed the institution of Parliament and public institutions in this way. It would be very important that breast-fed babies should not be separated from their mothers during health care, or if the mother needs care in a healthcare facility, she should have a baby with her as much as possible. This would, in principle, be due to patient rights obligations, but this is not respected in most hospitals, so there are a lot of forums and relationships between parents where they say that if one of these happens, hospitals do not have the opportunity to create an opportunity to comply with the related obligations. For example, by referring to special care for premature babies, parents' rights are often limited and mothers cannot breast-feed, even though this can achieve particularly good results for premature babies. American research says that body contact, such as the kangaroo method, improves very, very much with such babies. This is not specifically a protective issue, but it is typically the services in which the continuous communication of women in charge not only with families but also with the healthcare institution could be very, very helpful. In addition, I think that it would be very important to have more and more training among women in charge to help identify signs of domestic violence, to better cooperate with other institutions and to enable women in charge to provide effective assistance to women affected by this, taking into account the facts that are fully known from research in Hungary. I was curious that Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann said that she did not know any example of any criticism of the defence network, even though there have been a number of cases before press reports on domestic violence affecting babies fed during the day, when the primary protection system did fail and there was no supervision that should have indicated these problems. So it is a fact that 23 percent of women in Hungary have experienced at least some physical violence by their current or former male partners. Women who have experienced sexual violence have five times the risk of miscarriage and abortion compared to other women. Relationship violence tends to escalate during pregnancy, all statistics show this, and in proportion to the number of children, the presence of this is getting ugly. Violence also extends to female reproduction, often, in good cases, the male partner prohibits or makes it compulsory to take the tablet or even have an abortion, and physical and psychological complications due to abuse can cause serious competences during childbirth and lactation. It would be very good if the defence network had the right professional background to create an opportunity to do so. When Member Mrs Gabriella Selmeczi, who notes this proposal among other things, here is the Btk for crimes committed within the family and at the expense of minors. I have brought him a page of material that he proposed to amend, to use resources, to focus on prevention in Western European countries, and not after the rain, to use a simple legislative amendment to solve the problem. I have this constant impression that it is precisely because there are so many lawyers in the government and so many lawyers in the Hungarian government, because they are looking for a legal solution for everything instead of creating good professional solutions and creating a proper background for how to implement the rules. Strengthening the training and signalling system for domestic violence in this direction, more effective cooperation between authorities would also be necessary for the tasks arising from the Istanbul Convention, and the wallet also said that this will be ratified this spring. This is why these improvements are absolutely necessary. It would be very good if, in the next period, the Prime Minister's Office could create the opportunity for the next Structural Funds to make such improvements both in infrastructure and in terms of human development. Very, very many people have survived, and I mention this as an interesting fact, when I dealt with this legislation and the patronage network, they suggested to me from rural areas that the patronage network was part of the Snitch network during the socialist years. As a result, a lot of personal conflicts have developed with people who have been in the profession longer, and this proposal has also come to pass when I asked how justified the possibility of introducing freely elected women is. In many cases, we see that women in charge face very serious constraints when trying to achieve results in a family where there is no reception capacity for their work. It would be very important for them to receive adequate institutional and professional assistance to provide this everywhere, because in most cases it is the experience that such families would need it the most. I would like to ask the present government representative for one more very important thing: I am sorry that I am speaking home, but practically when Kodály was asked when the child's musical education began, he said that when the child was born. Then he said I was corrected, probably 9 months before the child was born. Then he said that I would correct it: the child's musical education begins nine months before his mother's birth. Education for healthy lifestyles, healthy lifestyles, all knowledge of this is practically necessary from infancy to receive Hungarian citizens when they are born. At present, we see a lot of commercial, nutritional and other advertisements in the range of protective services that do not serve the means of sustainable consumption and more environmentally conscious education. The ability of the defence network and its institutional background to stop this kind of advertising pressure is a real way of achieving the more environmentally friendly behavioral systems and tools that would be needed to improve the institutional system and improve the quality of service. Together with all this, as our lead speaker has already stressed, and I will say that we will support the proposal, we will be happy to vote in favour, but such a proposal will not replace the gaps that would be necessary in the sector at the moment. It is very important that government politicians, who have the necessary expertise and competence to do so, present legislative amendments that really help to achieve this service more effectively and better than these beauty patch modifiers. I would like to ask with great respect the present representatives of the Government and my fellow members of the Government. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-03-31-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. In particular, you have a remarkable line of thought on the relationship established between the defence women's network and the qualifications of the members of the government. Now we have two-minute comments. Congressman László Kiss, MSZP.
u2015-03-31-79	Thank you for the floor. I was actually inspired by my fellow Member Sallai, because I do not agree with him this time. He made a long argument, I think, very well and nicely as to why it would be necessary, or why, that women in charge should be in a daily relationship with everyone, because the tasks that my fellow Member spoke about - and I think he has very well summarized the directions in which they should go - all justify this relationship. I would like to say that there are many of us in this room, unfortunately, there are more men than ladies, and I think my fellow men, when they went to see the patroness with their wives, they did not feel that they were in abundance of information, no matter how much we experienced the experience of fatherhood. I think that this kind of prevention activity that the protective service is dealing with is simply irreplaceable. And if we're talking about how much overload there is in the supply system, I think the solution to this is to replace this problem on the other side, so the defensewoman should work with better financial appreciation in the system rather than reducing care. I think that there is a point in this current system, there is a point in mandatoryness, and that the women in charge of this work are good to take care of. Of course, these mistakes, which my fellow Member has also said, are happening, and I will also wish to talk about this in my later comment, but I believe that at present this is more of a value than a fault in the system. At the same time, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the objectives you have mentioned - and these are very important - would be more difficult to achieve if this were not the mandatory task than in the present case. Thank you for listening.
u2015-03-31-80	Congresswoman Bene Ildikó, two minutes. Here you go.
u2015-03-31-81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to add so much, and I would like to join my fellow Member, László Kiss, that I, as a mother, did not take the advice of a patron at all. I didn't even feel like he was coming into my apartment and looking around. I think - and my fellow Member Kiss has put it very well - that he should be subject to rules, that we must, in some sense, be able to comply with the rules, precisely so that we can prevent the criticisms that you have drawn up at the end. This requires regular and independent protective activities. [[13.10]] Nor can it be allowed to find a form of this with a certificate, since the results of cervical cancer screening in the private practice must be reported to the OEP in exactly the same way as they do in the state practice, so we need to get to a form that we can monitor. I think that the kind of work that women do, the kind of care that they can provide, and the professional work that they do for the whole family, I think we have to take it with the heart that they give it. We must not ignore certain rules, but we must abide by rules in the system, precisely because in order to be born a healthy baby, in order to be able to see things in time, it is necessary to be regular, it is necessary that, during the period between the doctor or the medical examination, the protective woman, who has the appropriate expertise, sees the mother and knows the environment, knows where she lives. I think you, and I remember that patroness who carried me through when I was a kid, and I remember with great love those who accompanied my two children all along, and I am grateful for their work. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties and the MSZP.]]
u2015-03-31-82	Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, two minutes away.
u2015-03-31-83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to say to Dr Bene Ildikó that I did not rule out the complete abolition of compulsory care, I referred to how to make it more effective and how to achieve that not by standardising pregnant parents or mothers, but preferably by paying more attention to where it is needed. To this day, I see pregnant mothers smoking around protective networks, while at the same time the women in charge come and go. In such cases, greater communication should be carried out for prevention. A week ago, the Hungarian press was visited by photos showing the effects of smoking during pregnancy in the fetus. It would be necessary to increase the amount of awareness of this kind. It is very, very important that you understand that the fact that you have positive memories based on the experience of your own two children does not mean that Hungarian society is true in all cases. I have four children, which is exactly twice as much experience, and I've lived in a different way about it, and I've always appreciated and respected women. However, from such subjective experiences, general, country-wide conclusions should not be drawn, because this is exactly what could mislead legislation. You have to see what it is that comes up. However, I do feel that it is certainly forward that these professional dialogues - I do not consider myself a professional, but yours, of course - should be conducted among policy makers, not just on this proposal, but on how this service can be improved, how it can be made more efficient and how it can serve better the objective that the legislator or creator had dreamed of a hundred years ago. These dialogues would be necessary, which is what I focused on most in my speech, and that is what I wanted to draw attention to. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-03-31-84	Honourable Members, Not to limit the right and opportunity of a single Member to speak, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is a memorial day. We have witnessed the rare moment in the main speaker's circle that all the factions have expressed their agreement with this initiative. Consequently, of course, I give the floor to everyone who comes in line here, not doubting that we are getting to know new and new ideas that have not yet been mentioned, but if someone does, that they have already said what they wish to say, I will not resent him if he withdraws from his speech. Therefore, it is for Congressman Sebestyén Cutter to take the floor, Jobbik.
u2015-03-31-85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll tell you what I want. I'd rather not back down. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, First of all, I'd be in this two-minute circle for a sentence. I agree with what you said to my fellow Member Sallai, because it is the same as the mandatory kindergarten, that if there is a justification for the family that he has had enough of a one-time visit, and he is able to raise the child in such a way that there is no need for her to visit, then let us regroup this resource and let the protective woman go to the more troubled families, because such a parent is likely to appear in front of the protective woman, so the parent will be known to the protective woman. I'd like to say a few more things. Everyone has said a lot about the child protection warning system and how important it is for the protective service to do so. Yeah, I'll give you that. In recent times, there have been very serious cases of anomaly, and that is why I say what I always say in every debate is that the legal and other operational background of the child protection warning system should finally be corrected, in particular in order to protect the women of protection, so that they are not in such an awkward situation that they are ultimately blamed for the shortcomings in the system, because of the shortcomings of the system, for the failure of their profession. So for their sake too, I say that this system needs to be changed and reformed; and I could say that it needs to be better managed. I would like to draw the Parliament's attention to two more important points as to why it is important to be in protective service. First of all, the role of prevention was also mentioned in the national exposé. In prevention, I think about the fact that we also discussed the national disability programme recently. I can also say that there is an important role for women in prevention. They are the ones who regularly meet pregnant women, the ones who can give primary information about why they need to pay close attention to a healthy lifestyle. Smoking has already been mentioned for smoking mothers as a result of the expected consequences for the unborn child or the unborn child, but the consequences of other harm to health should also be pointed out that, as a result, a disabled child may be born. If the women in charge do so, the proportion of unborn children who unfortunately have to deal with this problem may decrease. The second thing is that the protector meets the born newborn child for the first time, and her important task is that if she experiences some kind of disability or disability, she also draws the attention of the parent and the system, as early development in the case of people with disabilities can be a very big step forward in the case of children born in this state at the time of their birth. Thus, even one person with disabilities who is more likely to perform those schools, if they are involved in these early developments, and there is a real role for the patrons in this, because they are the ones who can see these problems in the first round and start these processes. That's all I wanted to add to the solos I had before me. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-31-86	Thank you very much. Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen of the Council, On your behalf, I welcome the students and educators of the Veszprém Táncsics Mihály Secondary School and St. Gellért High School in Budapest, who watch our work from the gallery. I'm glad you're here. Good afternoon. Mr László Kiss is next, MSZP.
u2015-03-31-87	Thank you for the floor. Basically, I would like to talk about the fact that there are elements of the protective service in my own constituency, the III. also in the district, which are definitely positive practices and need to be added as a new aspect in this debate. It is important to note that Annex III is amended as follows: Since 1 January 2004, the protection service in the district has been operating in part as an independent institution, with more than 60 professionals helping their activities here. Just now, on Thursday, March 26, at 5 p.m., there was an event about kindergarten training: the title of our child will be kindergarten. This is also a good example of the extent to which this institutional system can perform. The task will be carried out together with other institutions of the district, and the event will be organised. At the same time, however, it is also necessary to see that the protective service is in an increasingly difficult position to do so, and allow me to make a criticism here, as the youth signalling system, which concerns public education, has been significantly weakened over the past period, since the mandatory child protection status in schools has been abolished and is only responsible where the CLIK gives permission to do so. I'm telling you, it's very rare for you to do this. As a result, school women have an even greater role to play. And I may also think that those anomalies, the problems that many have spoken of before me - such as the case of the child who feeds on the sun, which is the case of the third. there have been cases in the district, and other problems that many have talked about may increase significantly over the next period, unless this signalling system is restored. [[13.20]] In this case, the patronesses also perform an extremely sacrificial task, but if you like it, I can tell you that the ball is not in their court, but it is the education government that is supposed to strengthen this signalling system. One word, like a hundred, is very right that we have this proposal for a resolution, and I think it would be desirable, of course, if, not only on such proposals, but also on the basis of real proposals, we were to politicalise in favour of the women's protection, improve their working conditions, strengthen the youth protection signalling system. At the same time, it is right that there will be a day like this where we think about the victimetic work of the women in charge, and I also especially thank you for the third. I also believe that without them, the district system would be much poorer. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-03-31-88	Now, please, this is a two-minute speech, but fortunately, no one came forward for two minutes. [[Defiance.]] Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, from MSZP. Here you go.
u2015-03-31-89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, as well as the Members before me, have confirmed that I just have to say this speech, because this topic is at least as important, even though we are talking about just a few thousand women in the country, but it affects millions of people. I have also prepared that women in charge not only perform routine tasks, so to speak, but also carry out very valuable extra tasks, and these are the good practices that are available to everyone, and I would also recommend them to my fellow men, and I would like to report on one of these. It's called "Father's Day on Simontorny, strengthening the role of father in promoting family bonding in well-kept families." It's educational and interesting for everyone, I'm just going to read details from the priority project. Katalin Kelemen, regional defensewoman, made this material. Only a few sentences about the applicant: I have been working as a patron since 1999 and I have worked as a career beginner in Zala County, initially in one and then in two districts. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Presentation of the institution. The patronage service of the municipality of Simontornya consists of two protection zones. In addition to the territorial work, both women perform school work, with a total of 555 institutions in 2013. In fact, the Father's Day event is mainly organised for the patronage service, as the school, kindergarten educators, family care providers of the local family and child welfare services and friends and family members of the organizers are involved in the implementation. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Introduction. Where are you, father, where are you, big man. / You're not anywhere, / but you are, but you are. / Something's hidden, / something's locked. What's with the silence? What is this castle? "Dezső Kosztolányi," wrote. Why were the patronesses thinking about the fathers when this event came up? At the end of 2012 the two women in the Simontornya protective service took care of 181 families with children aged 0-6 years. Of these, 38 families out of 181 have a father's divorce, work abroad - this is not in the family's everyday life for 6 families - and in many families the relationship is possible, so the ratio of children and children alone is 17.7 percent, where the mother raises the family of fathers working abroad, and the percentage is 21 percent. In reality, the situation is much worse, and I was faced with doing the above calculation, knowing the families, since many families where the father is present are not actively involved in childcare. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Here the statistics show how many children are born and how many divorces and marriages are made in the settlement, and they make it clear that the above shows that divorce rates are high in relation to the birth rate, and we also find that most of the children are born out of wedlock during protective care. This was no different in the period when the Father's Day of Simon Towers was born. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The development of practice. During the work of the patroness, we inevitably encounter the transformation of family structures, the demise of family relationships. We often see the father quit the family, or even if he doesn't quit, because of his work, attitude, or social habits, he is less involved in the lives of the family and especially the child, so their relationship is vulnerable and less stable than the mother-child relationship. We often find that even though the father feels this, he does not find the opportunity to strengthen his relationship with his child. My colleague, recognizing this shortage, thought about how these fathers - and, of course, where the father-child relationship works well in practice - could be addressed, bringing families together for a joint programme, which could lead to a change in several scenes. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The simplicity, novelty and uniqueness of good practice. The novelty of the program lies in the fact that a member of the family becomes the main character, so to speak, who is most neglected in the work of the patroness, but also teachers tend to keep in touch with the mothers. Of course, along with the father, the child himself and the whole family will become the main character and winner, because although Father's Day is the Father's Day, the benefit of the event is the child whose interests we try to keep in mind from conception. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. And here they describe the long-term effect, and it is very interesting, which came to a conclusion from the events. As a long-term effect, future fathers who themselves attended the Father's Day event as small children are treated as almost evidentiary that they will bring their children later. They develop a different aspect of fatherhood, a new aspect of some families, or a new aspect of fatherhood. By giving us the opportunity to develop a healthy father's image or helping us correct the incomplete image, we have already done so for the next generation, and we consider this an important task as a protective woman. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I think it may not be interesting for everyone, but it is very important what women in charge do in their everyday life, and they also carry out extra tasks. The last sentence that was established was very important. I think that this question is more important, even if we talk about one day, how much these people should be appreciated, because we are talking about children, mothers, fathers, future generations. Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your patience.
u2015-03-31-90	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] [[No signal.]] No. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. (No indication.) No. Dear Parliament, To submit amendments, I would like to inform you that Thursday will be at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the proposal for a resolution on the participation of the Hungarian Defence Forces in international action against the Islamic State terrorist organisation will follow. The submission is H/4027. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Since the author of the item on the agenda is the Minister of Defence, who will arrive in a few minutes, until he arrives, I am ordering a technical break. [[It's a short break.]] [[13.30]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. As I mentioned, the submission is H/4027. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Csaba Hende, Minister for Defence, the author of the item on the agenda. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2015-03-31-91	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In order to participate in international coalition operations of the Hungarian Defence Office, pursuant to Article 47 (2) of the Fundamental Law, Parliament's consent is required, with the vote of two thirds of the Members present. As you know, following Resolutions 2170 and 2178 of the United Nations Security Council and the invitation from the Government of the Republic of Iraq to UN Member States on 25 June 2014, more than 60 countries of the international community have decided to take action against the Islamic State terrorist organisation. The proposal for a parliamentary decision is intended to support the mass human rights violations committed by the Islamic State and in particular the coalition action against genocides and other crimes against humanity. Dear Parliament, The brutal terror of the Islamic State threatens minorities in Iraq and Syria, including the long-standing Christian communities in the region. There are 1.3 million Christians in Iraq, 2.1 million Christians in Syria. Added to this is the 500,000 Yazidian minority and, of course, the largest, the Kurdish minority. Over 13 million people have so far left their homes in Iraq and Syria as a result of the expansion of the Islamic State and the many years of civil war in Syria. The most significant humanitarian crisis has developed since World War II. Such a large number of refugees will put both the host countries and the aid organisations to an extreme test. Let us not forget that the serious signs of the crisis are already affecting our continent. The European recruitment activity of the Islamic State has brought significant success to it. About 80 percent of the connectors are incompatible, third generation young people with Western citizenship from Muslim immigrant families. At the same time, we must warn everyone that recruitment can be detected in the neighbourhood of our country, in the Western Balkans. Volunteers returning to Europe represent a significant threat and threat. The declared purpose of the Islamic State is to establish and operate a global terrorist organisation. His survival and strengthening are a constant threat not only to all Western countries, but also to all Muslim countries. Dear House, Speaking of this task, we must state that the fight against the terrorist organization of the Islamic State will be fought by the Iraqi army with the help of the international coalition and, in particular, with strong Western support. The Hungarian soldiers will contribute to this Western support: they will provide forces training local volunteers with force protection, i.e. to protect, defend military forces, and ensure their full protection in the camp and during movement. The Hungarian Army has gained considerable experience in the performance of force protection tasks in similar theatres. Let us conclude: our soldiers carry out their duties far from the front line, which will not be part of offensive combat activity. I can assure you, on the basis of the position and information of the military staff, that our soldiers volunteering for the mission are able and ready to carry out the task. Dear Parliament, When making our decision, we must take account of the fact that terrorism represented by the Islamic State is an existential threat not only to the Middle East states and its peoples today, but also to the West, Europe and our country in the longer term. The fight against this radical threat is a matter of fundamental importance today, the cause of the whole civilised world. The mission against the Islamic State is not a unilateral initiative of the West. A global coalition of more than 60 states has been organised, including many Muslim states in the Middle East and North Africa. With our participation, we prove again: Hungary is not only a consumer of the security of the Western federal system, but also a responsible member of the international community. He makes his own decision to contribute to the success of the common cause, never losing sight of the national interest. Let us note that the contribution to the Iraqi operation also concerns specific Hungarian interests. The international refugee wave is already directly threatening our country. According to data published by the Immigration and Nationality Office on 16 January 2015, more than six times the number of refugees from Iraq and Syria came to Hungary in 2014 compared to 2013. Accordingly, in 2014, more than 6,000 Syrians and Iraqis applied for asylum, and we all know that this is only the beginning of the process. With Hungary's active involvement, it can help normalise the situation in Iraq, which can help reduce the number of refugees and return Iraqi refugees. Let us also mention our economic interests in the region. We have recently exported to Iraq for around $16 and $46 million a year. MOL is settling for a 25-year production period in Iraq, including Kurdistan, and its specialists are researching oil and natural gas in the Kurdistan region. So far, $800 million has been invested, and significant crude oil imports are already coming from our country. Ladies and gentlemen, The Government, through the ministries involved in the case, provided all interested representatives, where it was open, in closed session or occasionally in the form of a personal request, of course, with all the information necessary for the decision and available to us. We also share additional information that is constantly coming. Dear Parliament, Under the Fundamental Law, the Government of Hungary requests the two-thirds consent of the National Assembly to establish, until 31 December 2017, a 300-person military contingent with the necessary technical tools, weapons and equipment to carry out international coalition operations against the terrorist organization Islamic State in the territory of the Republic of Iraq, in order to carry out partnership building tasks in the area of competence of the training centre in Erbíl. The contribution should also cover the filling of core and insurance posts in line with the Hungarian engagement and outside the competence of the training centre in Erbíl, against the quota number. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to discuss the motion before you and please accept it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.40]]
u2015-03-31-92	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Kósa, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here.
u2015-03-31-93	Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Dear House, I believe that there is no debate between us regarding international action against the Islamic State in the sense that the actions of the Islamic State have unitedly upset all people who give anything to the existence of human dignity, the protection of human life, religious freedom, personal security and civilisation values, because the Islamic State, in its recent short history, has unfortunately demonstrated on the international net that they are ignoring all things that exist, which we consider to be an important value. For this reason, the United States led a value coalition in which international action against the Islamic State is taking place with the participation of very different countries. 62 countries are members of this international cooperation. In the first stage, countries that offered fighting troops and fighting forces will take part. They are very different countries from Australia to Saudi Arabia to France or even the United Arab Emirates, Morocco or even Jordan. You can see that the picture is extremely dim. But it is not by chance that 62 countries not only agreed to cooperate at the first stage on the call of the United States, but also in order to combat what the Islamic State represents in terror, ignoring basic human values. From 2014, Hungary will participate in this cooperation, in the second stage, which means that we will provide humanitarian aid to the international alliance, as well as military equipment and training. That is what we want to confirm, for the next reason. The Government of the United States has asked the Hungarian Government and, through this, the Hungarian Parliament to decide whether we will participate in this international cooperation. So once again, this international coalition was brought to life by the United States, and the United States asked the Hungarian Government and the Hungarian Parliament to decide whether Hungary would participate in the form of cooperation in which they would otherwise perform military tasks defined by the Minister, essentially object protection and personal protection [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] In the area of Erbil, in the camp located right next to the international airport, with 150 soldiers who would be volunteers. So the Hungarian Defence Office wants to make this participation possible with volunteers and asks us to support it. All kinds of things have been said in this House about who considers themselves European, how important it is to the protection of human life, freedom of religion, the protection of civilisational values and the values that all members of the Hungarian Parliament, by the way, consider important and to be protected. Compared to this, it is surprising that when the United States Government requests a higher participation from the Hungarian Parliament, this is essentially rejected by the parliamentary factions. Of course, they have the right to do so in their hearts, but I would like to say that, for the values that the honourable opposition fellows here represent as warriors - respect for the exception - something must be done not only in text, but when there is a clear threat against these values, when it is quite clear that something must be done here, because this is a completely new phenomenon of international terrorism in the Islamic State, how violence and brutality represented by itself are spread on the Internet by manslaughter, decapitation and all the horrors they represent, I believe that this must also be dealt with in action. The good feeling dictates that we do something. If we have the opportunity to participate in such international cooperation, I believe that with a good conscience, we can only make the decision to do so. Of course, it is always possible to ask whether we know enough whether the Hungarian Member of Parliament has sufficient information when he makes this decision. It is very simple to answer that it is not, because it is actually an uncontrollable position, because all information can be further clarified, all information is checked in one more round. In fact, this tactic is familiar at a time when someone does not want to take the decision they want to make, then they usually refer to the fact that they do not have all the information, which may otherwise be true in the sense of who is in full possession of the data relating to the Islamic State and dares to state that about themselves. In this sense, of course, this decision is also a risk. However, I believe that at the Parliament's National Security Committee meeting, at the Defence Committee meeting, the data obtained not only by the Hungarian Defence and the Hungarian Government, but also by this international cooperation, are a sufficient basis for such a decision to be taken. If someone says no, then it is clear to me that the values that honourable fellow Members speak so heartily are really important to you in words. [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] But when you have to make a decision, you have to do it, then, of course, you choose a simpler solution and you say you don't. I would add, of course, that someone can say, because it was said in the debates that Hungary's terrorist threat or exposure may be increased by such entry. [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] I would add, of course, that Hungary's terrorist threat is also increased by the fact that the French Institute of Budapest organises an exhibition from the cartoons of the French hacks Charlie Hebdo. So the only consistent position for Members of this House is that they stand up and demand the immediate ban on the Charlie Hebdo exhibition organised by the French Institute; it immediately bans, as it also increases Hungary's terrorist threat. Furthermore, if a person truly considers the threat of terrorism to be the biggest problem, he must also demand that the issue of dealing with refugees [[Dr. András Schiffer: Again?]] immediately introduce asylum detention, in Hungarian, do not tolerate the fact that every year 8 thousand unidentified, undocumented [[Dr. András Schiffer: It's no use!]] But obviously, the refugee from the Syrian region in Iraq is treated by the Hungarian state, among whom anyone can be, I would add, by the way, by a soldier belonging to the Islamic State, because he doesn't reveal his intention and he doesn't say what I intend to do, but it works. And what does the Hungarian authority do? He gives her a piece of paper and asks her to go to the nearest camp on her own, where, by the way, she should spend as much time as possible until the asylum procedure for her is completed. If someone is really concerned about the terrorist threat in Hungary, then he cannot stand by and let anyone enter Hungary today with any intention, tell the Hungarian authorities after the illegal border crossing that he is seeking political asylum, speaking Arabic, not saying at first sight that he is coming from Lebanon, coming from Libya, coming from Iraq, coming from Syria, and, of course, immediately after the necessary survey, we release him and then he can go wherever he wants, do whatever he wants. [[13.50]] In this case, it is necessary to emphasise this because I feel that the person who consistently and truly rejects the action against the Islamic State in relation to the Hungarian terrorist threat cannot take a different view, all other positions show the mentality of the perfect mess. I think, honourable Parliament, we should also take into account the fact that countries which do not participate in this international cooperation or only participate in humanitarian aid, such as Austria or Sweden, are not protected from terrorism, as the Islamic State has kidnapped and detained Austrian and Swedish citizens. So if someone believes that in this sense Hungary and the values represented by Hungary must be protected by doing nothing, it is wrong because the terrorist logic of the Islamic State is completely different. And we cannot go without saying that a few hundred kilometers from the Hungarian borders are being recruited by the terrorist organization of the Islamic State, who, in any case, may pretend to be refugees in the illegal crossing of the Hungarian border, such as Kosovo Albanians or Bosnians giving the vast majority of refugees. Therefore, I think - considering the request made by Western cooperation or cooperation led by the United States to the Hungarian Parliament - who takes those values seriously, such as human dignity, the protection of life, freedom of expression, freedom of religion, which he talks so well about in Parliament, should support this proposal, even if we know that the adoption of this proposal also carries certain risks. I respectfully ask my fellow opposition Members to consider and support this cooperation. This basically does not divide Parliament in party political sections, as we can see that there is an enormous lack of image in the assessment of action against the Islamic State. I think this is a phenomenon of terrorism - a completely different quality - where joint action is needed. And I would like to emphasise something else. In the context of cooperation against the Islamic State, there is a very different doctrine than in the previous actions in Iraq or Afghanistan, since, as Minister said, most of the action will be carried out by the Syrian and Iraqi armies, as well as the Kurdistan army of Peshmerga warriors in North Iraq. We're involved in training them. I ask the honourable Members not to deny the help they are asking us not to at least be defenceless. They want to protect themselves, including Iraq, Kurdish warriors in North Iraq and the Syrians, because they do not agree with this terror. We'd like to help you train them. We are not sending our soldiers to fight, but we are promoting the training activity that these people need to be able to effectively defend themselves, their families, and the values they claim to be Islamic followers. We call this terrorist organization the Islamic State, but important theologians of Islam have already brought to the world's attention a thousand times that they have nothing to do with the doctrine represented by the leading power of Islam. I therefore believe that this assistance should not be refused, and I ask honourable Members to support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-31-94	Thank you very much. Before I pass on the floor, I welcome the students and teachers from the Lónyay Street Reformed High School and the Móricz Zsigmond High School. I'm glad you're here. Good afternoon. We now have the lead speaker of the MSZP Group, Mrs Márta Demeter, who will be speaking from this platform. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-03-31-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The MSZP is a committed supporter of the fight against terrorism. Our strong position in principle is that Hungary must play its part in the efforts of the community of democratic states to maintain international peace and security, in line with its strength and strength. The MSZP has previously represented this as a governing party and represents the same as the responsible opposition party. In this spirit, we have consistently supported and supported Hungary's involvement in military missions in Kosovo, Bosnia, Afghanistan and many countries of North Africa. In these missions, the forces and soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Forces have demonstrated excellent standing and have gained great recognition for our country. Supporting international military tasks was shown not only in statements, but also in the voting behaviour of the MSZP here at the Parliament's meetings. Just two weeks ago, the House decided to adopt nine reports on such international military missions, which the MSZP voted for without exception. We did not express criticism either, nor did we find it necessary to support the fact that, in the autumn of the previous year, the government joined the international coalition against the terrorist organization Islamic State, although we could not ensure this step in advance about our support, as the Orbán government refused to involve the opposition in this decision, even though Hungary's involvement is still very significant. The international coalition against the terrorist organization Islamic State is currently a member of 62 plus 1 countries. Participating countries share in joint efforts in terms of their military strength and economic potential. Currently, 16 countries are included in the category of combat aircraft involved in the Islamic State air strikes and have provided fighting forces. A further 16 countries are the second category of engagement to support the fight by providing military equipment and war materials. 14 countries support the coalition with humanitarian aid, while 14 countries only provide political support. [[Attila Móring József takes the notary seat.]] Hungary is already part of the second category of engagement, given that it contributes significantly to the fight against the terrorist organisation in addition to humanitarian aid. According to the Government Resolution 1470/2014, millions of different rounds, ammunition and war material have already been made available to the security forces fighting against the Islamic State terrorist organisation in Iraq. Although the government has not been interested in our position until now, I would like to make a clear statement on this agenda: the MSZP supports Hungary's participation in the coalition against the terrorist organisation Islamic State and can accept the current form and extent of engagement. We also consider it acceptable that, with changes in the international environment and safety conditions, it may be justified to reconsider or increase participation. The government presentation now wants to raise engagement to the highest possible level and send Hungarian soldiers to one of the most dangerous crisis zones in the world. As in all previous cases, the MSZP's faction was well informed again and carefully considered whether, under the current circumstances, the mandate could be granted for military participation under the conditions proposed. Based on the information available, as a result of the responsible consideration, we have come to the conclusion that the Orbán government is not in a moral position for several reasons to request the mandate of the Parliament. [[14.00]] It was quite clear that Hungary was not asked to do the military task proposed, but that it was proposed by the Government of Viktor Orbán himself. It was clear that there was no such request from the international coalition at political level. Only the U.S. CENTCOM Regional Command, which was planning operations against the Islamic State terrorist organization, contacted the Honvéd General Staff with a specific operational call for participation. The government also acknowledges that Hungary had not received any specific requests before or beyond this. Ladies and gentlemen, Military and political leaders don't remember any of these requests in the last 25 years. In addition, Viktor Orbán and Péter Szijjártó said several times before weeks of the alleged request about the planned engagement in Northern Iraq. According to the dates, it is clear that the government decided on military engagement long before the letter of the US CENTCOM Regional Command. This is supposed to be because CENTCOM, as the command responsible for the planning of coalition operational capabilities, based on the political statements of the Hungarian Government, has developed the possible form of Hungarian engagement in accordance with the needs of its current operations. Given the dates and circumstances, therefore, it is hardly possible to conclude otherwise than that the Government of Viktor Orbán itself has offered the military task. And the parliamentary factions were not started until after they committed our country to military participation. This discussion cannot be regarded as a genuine consultation in which the opposition parties are expected to merely confirm the government's decision. You know perfectly well that this procedure did not prevent Hungarian engagement in international military operations before 2010. And it is perfectly natural for our coalition partners in the war to welcome all the offerings. At the most, they are surprised to note that a Central European country is taking on a military task beyond its sole, far-reaching strength and capacity. For what reason did Viktor Orbán offer this risky task of raising Hungary's terrorist threat? Astoundingly, Viktor Orbán and his government refer to the attack on the Western value community and the need for solidarity between Christian communities. According to their argument, Hungary is part of the Western community of values, from which obligations arise. Now it is those who have shown little solidarity with our eastern neighbor Ukraine during the most critical period of Russian aggression, for example. The Orbán Prime Minister speaks about the protection of Western values, according to whom, and I will now quote it literally: "Ideologically focused foreign policy leadership has been invented by the smart countries for the half-wit countries. Who proudly proclaims that I will also quote it literally:. We have committed ourselves to an ideological approach to foreign policy, so we can also build more open relations with countries that are not part of the Western federal system. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now we are called upon to defend Western values by the Prime Minister, who believes that Western-type democracies are doomed to failure, and that the future is an illiberal democracy; who sets an example for countries that, in his terms, are not Western, not liberal, not liberal democracies, perhaps even democracies. So, the Orbán government, so proud of its interest-based, pragmatic foreign policy, suddenly wants to send the soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Forces to one of the most dangerous and costly military operations in the last 25 years, citing its commitment to the Western values. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] In addition, it exposes Hungary to unprecedented terrorist threats. But is it believable that there was a sudden radical turn of events in Viktor Orbán's view of foreign policy? Can it be believed that Viktor Orbán is really guided by the idea of solidarity this time? Anyone who monitors the government's foreign policy knows exactly the answer. There's no change at all. Viktor Orbán and his foreign minister are not telling the truth. To put it simple, they're lying. Clearly, they are so enthusiastic about this task, not because of human rights or the protection of Christian communities, but because of their own selfish party political interests. Viktor Orbán is guided by one goal: he wants to shut down the increasingly powerful western and mainly American criticisms that culminate in the ban scandal. He wants to achieve this without having to change the dictatorial and corrupt methods of the Fidesz clientship. He is trying to imitate our commitment to our Western allies by playing a role in overpowering Northern Iraq, while working with other parties to continue to break down the rule of law and fight for freedom against the European Union. In addition, in parallel, who knows what kind of personal consideration, it will fully deliver Hungary to the Russians from the point of view of energy supply. We must make it clear that, presumably, Viktor Orbán would direct the Hungarian soldiers to Northern Iraq in order to escape the ban scandal and improve relations and improve their internal political space, and expose Hungary to a greater threat of terrorism. Because the threat of terrorism will increase. While a weak statement in the press is trying to weaken its lead, it was not in essence denied at committee meetings. But they promise to guarantee the safety of Hungary's citizens. But can we believe these promises after Viktor Orbán refused to even protect small investors, when he probably knew exactly about the fall of the brokerage company of the Fidesz big businessman? How will the Counter-Terrorism Centre guarantee the security of Hungarian citizens, which the President of the Republic does not trust? Indeed, will the leaders who failed even in the snow chaos in March two years ago be able to deal with a possible crisis and have failed thousands of people. Our answer is clear: we do not believe in government promises. We do not believe that in the event of real and serious terrorist threats, they would be able to guarantee the safety of people. Moreover, we cannot even be sure that the Orbán government would not abuse the increase in the threat of terrorism. Fidesz has systematically dismantled the Hungarian rule of law in recent years, and criminal law has also been systematically used for political purposes. It is also terrifying to imagine, in the event of a real terrorist threat, what hard democratic rights restrictions Fidesz would introduce to ensure order and security. Would my fellow Members really dare to give Viktor Orbán the opportunity to introduce extraordinary measures? I must also draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that the government is not only tying up the scale of the expected terrorist threat, but also the security risks of the military mission. The pro-government politicians have repeatedly said that Hungarian soldiers only need to protect a training camp in the safest part of Iraq. First of all, we must state that neither part of Iraq can be considered safe. On the other hand, the proposal for a decision itself authorises the provision of staff and insurance posts throughout Iraq. A significant part of Iraq's territory is currently occupied by the Islamic State, whose borders are subject to intense fighting. In summary, the MSZP has always supported and supported a rational engagement in counter-terrorism and international peace and security operations, with its responsibility. However, this proposal for a decision is about something else. The government of Viktor Orbán merely wants Hungary to play a far greater role in Iraq, in the armed conflict that is taking place there, in order to avoid the ban scandal and to enforce its own power aspects. We will therefore submit an amendment to the Government's proposal. In this, we will propose a commitment proportionate to Hungary's weight and strength. There is no doubt that the soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Forces can survive in Iraq on the basis of their preparedness and experience. However, we firmly believe that, in this situation, this can be a strong commitment from Hungary. [[14.10]] Therefore, in addition to strengthening the current Hungarian contribution, we propose offering military capabilities that do not require the deployment of military troops in Iraq. For example, the Hungarian Defence Agency's health, some training skills and other cyber defence capabilities, even without deployment in the operational area, is an international coalition against the Islamic State. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] can be adjusted to your service. So, if the government is truly committed to the democratic community, then stop pro-Russian and anti-EU [[The president, by jogging the bell, again indicates the expiry of the time frame.]] It's politics. MSZP is a committed supporter of the fight against terrorism...
u2015-03-31-96	Thank you very much.
u2015-03-31-97	... and, as in the future, we will support proportionate engagement in terms of Hungary's capacity to bear a burden. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] NATO, EU and UN missions. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-31-98	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Márta Demeter. I now give the floor to Congressman Mátyás Firtl, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2015-03-31-99	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, After the lead speaker of the MSZP, it is a little strange when, in the first quarter of his speech, he only dealt with how he could support participation in missions, but of course he reached the end of it, of course, how they could not support participation in missions. But I think, fellow Members, that we can say, regardless of party standing, that Hungary is committed to international peace and security. It is also a fact that according to the national military strategy, Hungary has a number of peace ambulances of thousands. Government H/4027. With regard to the Hungarian Defence Agency's proposal No.2, as regards participation in international action against the Islamic State terrorist organisation, it can be stated that Hungary's responsibility for membership of the United Nations, NATO, the EU and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, according to the national military strategy that entered into force in 2012, is to participate in the fulfilment of federal and other international obligations, in particular collective defence crisis management and security strengthening tasks. When we talk about the involvement of the Islamic State, we can say that Islam is not the same as terrorism, because Islam has been a determining factor in the everyday life of the Muslim community for centuries, including politics. The Islamic countries have preserved the former social structures, religion and the state have not been separated, except for Turkey. The Islamic Arab countries are less involved in social development in democracies, which is also characterised by the fact that the development of Islamic society has been delayed at a lower stage of social development. Islamic radicalism and radical organizations based on Islamic ideology in the Middle East and Africa are today the greatest threat to international security. However, Islamic politicisation can pose a security risk to Western countries because it threatens free access to energy sources, a large proportion of the world's oil and natural gas resources are in the region, and the main transport routes cross these states or the seas concerned. There is a problem, however, that there are 20 million people living in European countries, a large number of Arabs with Islamic religion, and many of them have already been born here. Groups with Islamic passwords, sometimes implementing radical acts of terrorism, can influence them, and even conflicts in countries of origin have an impact on the community living in Europe, potentially involving the possibility of cooperation with Islamic extremists. France was a visible example of this. The second and third generation of refugees, who are already citizens of their own Islamic religion, require particular sensitivity from the host countries, as they are the most influential. In fact, they are trained in the ranks of the Islamic State or are involved in the murders in the Middle East and in the persecution of Christians. Christians had to leave the city of Mosul in northern Iraq. The extremist Islamists threatened them armedly and put them in a position of life either to convert to Islam or to make them pay a debt face that is priceless, or to expel them from their homes, which has been formulated as ultimatums for them, and of course, the members of the extremist military group have carried them out. In fact, their houses, belongings, and shops have been marked with an Arabic letter "N" or "Nun," which means that Nazarene, a follower of Jesus of Nazareth, is a Christian. Ladies and gentlemen, Who's next, who's next? Cruelty is obvious. The methods of burning people alive, slitting their throats, staining the waters of the sea with their blood, this is not just a crime against Christianity, but a crime against all humanity, honourable fellow Members. They're destroying the values of a millennia of culture. This strengthens us in the need to contain the terrorist forces of the Islamic State in the most effective place. CHAPTER XX Europe of the century is responsible for the horrors, and we ourselves are responsible for the fact that it is the 21st century. In the first century, these horrors should be eliminated, and we should be actively involved. Now that the Iraqi, Kurdish, Syrian military offensive is underway, we consider it important to ensure that the fighting forces are protected with protection. We therefore need to support the protection of human values, values and cultures according to our commitment in international organisations. We support the non-fighting, guard-protection tasks of 100 plus 50 people, and, as has been said, in the region where Hungarian interests are present. It has also been said that this region is currently the safest area. Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian Defence Forces have demonstrated in many places that they are capable of performing their tasks, such as in Afghanistan, in the Balkan region, or even in Iraq. As the Minister said, we will be part of a broad international cooperation. We need to do everything we can to ensure that crimes against humanity are no longer carried out as part of a broad international cooperation. For this reason, the Christian Democratic People's Party supports the government's presentation and proposes support for the other factions, the opposition factions. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-03-31-100	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Adam Mirkóczki, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-03-31-101	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen. I approach it from somewhere else, and Jobbik approaches the current problem from somewhere else, which is undoubtedly real and undoubtedly to be dealt with. But where do we start and where are we going to do that? It is worth putting it all in a context so that we can get a credible picture of this crisis and the political environment of our time. Let us begin by saying that everyone has their own experience and knowledge of the role and work of the United States of America, and thus their opinion, including us, Jobbik. This is not prejudice - I stress, not prejudice at all - rather based on experience, or afterlife, or historical facts, if you will. [[14.20]] When, as an exporter of democracy, a provider of Western prosperity and human rights, the United States of America and its allies arrive in a country with military force, you can see what they have created and what they have brought to the people there: nothing left but misery, chaos, anarchy, and the deepest level of crisis, a crowd of people who are crippled at the deepest level of the crisis, if you will, butchers's. That's what's happening in the Middle East, and that's what's responsible for it. It didn't just happen on its own, it didn't just happen by chance, it didn't just happen. If we look at these countries and these peoples, who have had the misfortune to experience American democracy closely, then think about Afghanistan, think about Iraq, Libya, Syria, but in a sense we can even bring Kosovo here. Let's see how these people live now. Let us look at the state of these countries. Let's not go too far, let's just think about our neighbor Ukraine, what's going on there, and what the United States of America has to do with it, because I think there's no debate in that. Where has the US managed to create democracy and prosperity for having intervened militaryly in so many places? So let's be honest: nowhere. Nowhere in the world has it created democracy, a minimum of human rights, or even prosperity, to which it has claimed occupied countries, conquered peoples or coups. But in fact, this was not the goal in any case: the USA has always looked only at its own geopolitical benefits, served its own military interests, or specifically its economic interests with these actions. And let's go to the specific case. Here is the terrorist organisation called the Islamic State, which, I would like to stress, we also condemn and condemn in the deepest degree. And here I would like to draw attention to the fact that when half or a significant part of the Hungarian parties did not even know whether to eat or drink the terrorist organization called the Islamic State, we had already held a candlelight before the Iraqi embassy, and we had already taken a position on what was the right decision of those responsible in this regard. But how did the Islamic State develop? It didn't just grow out of the ground, it wasn't just random, it wasn't just sudden, it wasn't all of a sudden, there wasn't so much weapons, so much money behind it, so much infrastructure and so much network of connections. That's right, ladies and gentlemen, someone created it. And let's name the culprit. We have the name of this, and we know who it is: the United States of America, he created the terrorist organization to the right of al-Qaeda, purposefully to overthrow the Assad regime, to create warriors against Hezbollah, and to serve his own geopolitical purposes. This is the Islamic State, and I'm not saying that, not us. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is a laptop in front of everyone, simply enter the name of Wesley Clark, who literally revealed to CNN - Wesley Clark is now a retired American general, he was the European commander-in-chief of NATO - that: "The Islamic State was created by us, the responsibility is ours. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Cut! You don't have to make ideologies behind any more, and you don't have to explain the inexplicable. However, this Islamic State is now, how should I put it, too out of control as a bad spirit out of a bottle, and what does the United States of America do? By chance, he doesn't take responsibility, he doesn't happen to see his own fault, but he wants to spread the blame, spread out the costs, spread the victims out. And we will assist, as we stand, not by us, but by you, because we will have two-thirds of it, it seems to me that there can be no doubt. But this is an infinitely false, infinitely cynical and infinitely hypocritical policy, everything the United States and its Middle East allies are doing, and you will be happy to assist. And if they refer to Western values or to the protection of Christianity - as they have always done now, which is important, because I think the human minimum is to stand up for certain undisputed values and human lives - then I ask the rhetorical question: what about Boko Haram? What about Christians who were murdered by them? Doesn't their lives matter? If the same Islamic extremists are committed in Nigeria, Cameroon or elsewhere in Central Africa, I have never heard you speak against them, nor have I ever heard the government send such humanitarian aid or military aid because Christians are being murdered or slaughtered. Isn't that weird? Who's consistent? And who's the inconsistent one? I think we should be very careful with these reasons, because this is not a story about whether we are doing a good or a bad deal, but we are playing with the security of a country and playing with the lives of Hungarian soldiers. If we are talking about empathy, let this empathy extend to all Christian people or to the protection of all human lives, not only when the United States of America asks us to do something or, if you will, instruct us. This hypocritical policy cannot be done and cannot be done without consequences, and it will not be without consequences. It is also proof of this hypocritical, hypocritical, cynical policy that the US and its allies, for example, are pursuing with Iran in the region. The one who has been subjected to an embargo, the one who has so far been declared a terrorist state, has suddenly become a good boy because he is helping effectively and directly against the Islamic State. Suddenly, Iran is good now, but if we can believe the news - and knowing the United States is obviously true - they are already thinking that if they push back the Islamic State and check it out, then we have to turn on Iran again, because obviously, its influence in the region will increase. That's disgusting politics. And you don't take that into account, you don't consider that for a minute. I think there is a long list of arguments and arguments, but if we look beyond the reality of everything, then there is no question that we must stay the furthest from here, and we have only one interest: the safety of Hungarian people, the Hungarian state, the security of Hungarian economic assets and the protection of the lives of Hungarian soldiers. This operation cannot be gained from the air. Despite the bombing of many countries, no matter how many regions, the Islamic State will not be weakened by this: precisely because of brutality and destruction, it will only increase, because more and more people see what they are doing in so-called capital West in other regions. This can only be handled with land force. And let's ask the rhetorical question here: what prevents the United States of America from shorting the question with x thousand or a few thousand or ten thousand soldiers, I quote? Nothing. He doesn't want to, and he doesn't seem to want to do it on his own, but he could. And I also find it strange that the Islamic State, according to the latest figures, operates from a budget of two and a quarter billion dollars a year - once again in quotes. If we can believe the news, this amount comes from illegal oil trade, kidnappings and perhaps organ harvesting. And has anyone asked whether or not someone in the United States and their allies is buying oil from the Islamic State, because this $2.25 billion is from somewhere, and obviously not from the slumni or the Shia to such an extent. So it would be nice to think about it, or at least not cheating each other into speaking the truth or speaking the truth, maybe even more right. And do you really think that the 150 Hungarian soldiers will solve the question? Obviously not, no one could have meant that. And what are we supposed to do there? Did we cause this crisis? We're the ones who coups countries in those regions? Are we constantly interfering with Middle East issues? No, it's the hand on your leash and its owner, the United States of America. That's what you should think about, and for once in your life in this House, talk about it honestly. [[14.30]] Let us say that, ladies and gentlemen, the thing is, they are the stronger ones, and we dance as they whistle. I would also accept that, much more than they would put all kinds of conflicting arguments about why this is important to us. We're not getting out of this. It will only damage us - human, material, moral. I want you to think about this. And of course, the numbers are flying around that it will cost us 10 or 30 billion forints a year. Let's just have a mean, 15 billion. Is there no room for this 15 billion? I'm not saying I don't bring up demagog social examples, but, for example, in the Hungarian Army, there's no room for 15 billion? It can be said that this is very good for our soldiers, because they gain experience, they can say that we collect recognitions at international level, that is obviously so, but if God doesn't give it to them, only one person dies, then they will tell their relatives that? Is that a responsible decision? For example, could the Hungarian Defence Office carry out its capitalist task, the defence of the country at the moment? And this is not a government criticism at all, but this has been true of all governments since our NATO membership and of all powerful politicians who control all defences. Since we are members of NATO, the Hungarian Defence Office cannot protect the country. It is only suitable for asymmetrical war tasks, since complete weapons have been built. Is there really no place for this money within the Hungarian Defence Service? You do, and you do, don't you? Remember the Hungarian victims, whether in Afghanistan or Iraq! When did this tragedy happen? It's not about security. And what's this mission about? It's not about object protection. What do you mean, they're not fighting squads? That if they're attacked, they won't fight there? Yes, you can. But what's the real risk? That trainers have to secure their routes. And in the case of Iraq, Afghanistan, where was the tragedy? When Hungarian soldiers accompanied convoys, that was their task. That's what they're gonna do here, in a much more harsh, war-like area. Can you really be responsible for saying yes to everything? And then we didn't mention that everyone, President Kósa, mentioned that many immigrants, and Zsuzsanna Végh, Director-General of Immigration and Nationality, spoke, if I remember correctly, on March 16, that if we subtract Kosovo refugees from refugees arriving in mid-March only this year, then there will be 7,000 Syrians, Afghans, Irishs. . Is it really possible that there's a vahabita or a safita? Who, whenever there are Hungarian flags flying in the area on vehicles and objects, do you think I'm punishing you? Then what are you going to say or how are you going to explain it? That it was worth it? Was it very important to take action against the Islamic State? It is important that we, too, do all humanitarian aid, contribute at our own level - but by no means militaryly. They're dumping unnecessary risks to this country, which I think in the last 25 years, but it may not have been a long time ago. On what basis will they say yes or press yes? If I were you, I'd think very hard, and it's not too late, we haven't voted yet. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And I think we're gonna keep going. And as a last sentence, there is no place for a Hungarian soldier in that area, there is no place for a Hungarian soldier to shed Hungarian blood in a foreign country, along with foreign interests. Keep that in mind when you vote. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-31-102	Thank you, Congressman Adam Mirkóczki. I now give the floor to Mr András Schiffer, the lead speaker of the LMP Group, Mr Group Leader.
u2015-03-31-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Decent wishes me to thank Prime Minister, Minister for Defence and Minister for Foreign Affairs for the fact that it is not quite exhaustive, but correct, information that has been given to opposition parties in recent weeks. Yet, the country drifted into a vortex caused by a distant war, and it was added to the US Foreign Minister's list, while the majority do not understand what we have to do in a war that has started without clear goals, which was launched without the authority of the international community on the right of power by the greatest military power in the world. And the government seems to have failed to ask the question: what is the Hungarian interest? - said Viktor Orbán in 2003. Make no mistake, the horrors broadcast daily by television channels and Internet portals about the terrorist organization Islamic State are horrifying to all the good people on the planet. It is clear to all human beings who are committed to humanity that such a terrorist organization cannot be allowed to breathe. At the same time, however, the emergence in the Middle East, in the Middle East, of such a terrorist organization, presenting a barely known degree of brutality, must wake us up to our global responsibility and point to global causes, root problems. The more severe brutalities we see, the more serious the underlying problems need to be taken. All this must be done because we must act for a world that is not settled by the profit hunger of global large companies, military companies. I would also like to remind the Honourable Parliament that last summer our fellow Member, May Other Politics, István Ikotity, first drew attention to the absolutely amazing Christian persecution that began in Northern Iraq with the bannering of the Islamic State. I think it is important to emphasise this because, in itself, as regards the importance and quality of the terrorist organisation, I think that there is neither a debate nor a debate in this House. However, let us look at what exactly is involved in this resolution proposal. What Hungary would undertake if we had a two-thirds majority is called force protection unit in English. So in Hungarian: we send a unit, the Minister asks for permission for 150 soldiers, which perform both object protection, driving insurance and personal protection tasks. Let's be clear: we're sending combat troops to Kurdistan, northern Iraq. And we have to put this right next to it: this is not our international legal obligation. It is not apparent that such an obligation can not be derived from Article 5 of the NATO Treaty. [[Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs will be replaced in the notary seat by Adam Mirkóczki.]] It is also remarkable that there is hardly any other country in our region, at least for the time being, which would have made such an offer. However, with regard to information and committee meetings, we can see that the internal security risks of military engagement are not yet fully predictable, so how much it increases the risk in Hungary, how much this involvement in the security of the Hungarian people is reduced, and the Hungarian government has not yet been able to give a clear picture of exactly how much domestic security spending needs to be increased in order to ensure the safety of Hungarian people. It is equally worrying that we do not see the end of the mission yet, and it is also worrying that there are no clearly defined criteria for success, and that if we do not see the end of the mission, we cannot tell exactly how much this will cost Hungarian taxpayers. The May Other political group will not support this proposal for a resolution because of the following reasons. For the time being, it is unclear exactly what financial supply lines, personal supply lines and technical supply lines this wild animal organization, capable of completely horrifying acts, receives financial, personal and technical supplies. Until we can accurately assess the potential base of the enemy, I think that any military mission of this type is quite simply irresponsible. And here I must reiterate our global responsibility. It is not only that we cannot pinpoint and detect precisely at the moment, and, where appropriate, cut the supply lines - because that would be the aim - we do not know what reserves this terrorist organization has, but rather avoid avoiding the hot porridge: we also do not see the consequences of an intervention, in the case of so-called military success of an intervention, in Iraq. [[14.40]] We have seen military missions from the West in Iraq and Afghanistan, and the world has also experienced that if Western powers intervene in such a way that they do not see the processes in those societies, they can only increase the trouble, if any. I think that the consequences of this action should be taken into account, precisely where the intervention is taking place, and that the impact of this on the sense of security of the people living here, the Hungarian people, should be taken into account. In this respect, the Hungarian government has not yet been able to provide accurate information. What can Hungary do at the same time? We've done six things in the last few weeks and months. Firstly, I would like to start with what is simplest: the Hungarian government has already sent shipments in autumn; I think that we have not yet made any criticism of this type of assistance. It is essential that Hungary also provides humanitarian aid. Three: after the Charlie Hebdo assassination, the LMP put a proposal on the table of Parliament to amend the Criminal Code without delay in order to ensure that potential terrorists using Hungary as transit countries can be apprehended as effectively as possible. It is necessary to take the legislative steps with which Hungarian services, the Hungarian law enforcement bodies, can otherwise be encouraged to intervene more effectively. Fourthly, we are calling for deeper EU internal security integration, more Europe in the area of internal security and counter-terrorism, as the countries of the European Union are able to jointly explore these financial, personnel and technical supply lines, and there is every means available for the European Union to cut these supply lines. Fifthly, a comprehensive Hungarian national and EU international development policy strategy is needed to ensure that these phenomena do not regenerate in North Africa, the Middle East or elsewhere. Last but not least, the duty of Hungary and Hungary's allies is to regard the universal human rights principles as binding on themselves and to enforce them. Finally, I would also like to say that it might be considered for Hungary to encourage the Kurdish autonomy efforts, the Kurdish people's right to self-determination. Yes, I would also like to refer to an obligation mentioned by Lajos Kósa, not even a few hundred, 60 kilometers from us in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Within the European Union, if Hungary has an irreplaceable responsibility: to draw the attention of the European Union and NATO allies to the danger at the gates. Hungary has work to do here in Central Europe in the first place, not thousands of miles away. During the debates over the last few weeks, I have been a bit terrified by the arguments that advocated military engagement with Western values that have been challenged. I would like to make it clear that Western values are not the challenge - humanism is the challenge. The argument that refers to Western values does not suggest that the murder, burning, decapitating of children would be acceptable to the non-western values. It's a typical racist mentality. This thinking only increases hatred all over the world. Our job is to stand by universal principles of law, moral commands, universal human rights, universal human rights commands. In this context, however, what is contrary to universal human rights and what is the relationship between the violations committed by the United States of America and the increase in hatred. Dear Parliament, It should be said that the Bush Administration established a detention camp for people accused of terrorism in Guantánamo, and Barack Obama, disappointing everyone who had been waiting for his victory, continued to keep this prison camp quiet despite his promises. It should be said that most of the prisoners are being held without indictment in Guantánamo today. This allows neither U.S. law nor the American Constitution to prevail; according to official disclosure, any person who can be classified as an illegal warrior can be held captive. There are reports of tortures, constant humiliations. Information and images of brutal torture committed by American soldiers in Abu Ghraib, Iraq, were published already in 2003, and the United States kicked off the Geneva Convention quite brutally. It is a matter, Honourable Parliament, that in this case, attention must be drawn to the fact that these universal moral commands can not be enforced by sending soldiers, but by us and our allies, including the United States of America, following them. Because what kind of Western values is it that can simulate drowning, torture prisoners with violent feeding, sleep denial? President Zsolt Németh may find this ridiculous, but the connection between the brutal torture committed by the West and the accelerating process of the spiral of violence cannot be seen. Dear Parliament, When they talk about a value coalition, we need to make it clear what we mean by values. I believe that universal universal human rights principles do not tolerate the tortures, injustices committed by the United States of America in Guantánamo, Abu Ghraib or other locations. I would also like to point out that a liberal democracy is hardly compatible with the law, patriotic law, the Patriot Act, which was introduced as a serious freedom limitation measure after the attacks on 11 September, and this patriotic law was also an opening point for the permanent war on terrorism. Yes, we also need to see who the beneficiaries of this war have become. They are not the winners of this war, neither the Western countries, nor the peoples where this war is going on, but only one winner, and this is the war industry. We must also say that if we want to enforce principles in the world, to enforce principles, then the Western world must also adhere to international legal standards. Compared to this, the weapons of mass destruction on which the second invasion of Iraq was made by the United States has not yet been found. In 2004, Kofi Annan, Secretary General of the United Nations, said that the war in Iraq was illegal for the United Nations. Dear Parliament, At a time when the UN Human Rights Committee in Geneva clearly states that the illegal wiretaps of the NSA violate human rights, the detention of persons brought to Guantánamo and third countries violates human rights, I think it must be made clear that most of this value system is being damaged here in the so-called Western world. We can act effectively against all kinds of brutal organisations if we consistently comply with these universal human rights commands. Why is this resolution proposal ahead of us? The only thing I can think of is that we have become part of Viktor Orbán's poker game called foreign policy. Orbán believes that in exchange for Russian friendship, TTIP will sacrifice the country in connection with the European-American Free Trade Agreement, offering Hungarian soldiers and sacrificing the safety of the people. He believes that Russian rubbing can be offset by offering soldiers to fight against the Islamic State as a prominent student, and what Russian friendship means in the West by not representing Hungarian interests in relation to the Free Trade Agreement. To sum up: don't take the Hungarian soldiers abroad! Thank you very much. [[14.50]]
u2015-03-31-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I now give the floor to the first independent Member, Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi, within a 15-minute timeframe. [[Zsuzsanna Szelényi enters the speaker's stand.]]
u2015-03-31-105	Dear House, Mr President, Today's debate is above all about what we Hungarians have to do in the world. This is my interpretation when we have another international mission for Hungarian soldiers ahead of us, and that is what we have to decide on. What do we have to do in the world? How do we interpret ourselves? How do we think about Hungary's role? Are we looking at ourselves as a small, closed people, or are we aware that Hungary is a member of the European Union in the most developed part of the world, and we are dealing with the fact that other people who are not as fortunate as ourselves can contribute to their well-being, peace and tranquility? The jihadist terrorist organization called the Islamic State was composed of soldiers from Saddam Hussein's former army, extremist Sunni tribal troops, fanatics trained in the Syrian civil war, and today they have recruited an army of about 30,000. This former ISIS army took half of Syria and a third of Iraq in a few months. The Islamic State is much more ambitious than the terrorist organisations we have known in recent decades and which have sought stability in the Western world. The Islamic State also wants to create its own state, a medieval country where life is unacceptable to those living in regions less developed than we are. The terrorist leaders of the Islamic State do not like the world order that has developed in the world over the past fifty years, and which, despite any conflict, basically bases its future on the peaceful coexistence of countries. The jihadist organization is trying to destroy this structure when it is also carrying out symbolic and barbaric executions in public around the world, killing Assyrian, jazedi, Coptic people, or destroying the past by destroying museums' treasures, history. The Islamic State is not only dangerous in the Middle East; it is obviously facing an extremely dangerous terrorist army that seriously destabilizes the Middle East. However, the Islamic State is dangerous to the whole world; the way it thinks about the age we live in is dangerous because it has set foot in, for example, Europe. On the one hand, in North African countries, which are very close to Europe's borders, the Islamic State is present, where it provides funding for terrorist organisations and provides training camps. There have also been serious terrorist acts in the heart of Europe, in the countries of Western Europe, which are essentially inhabited by Muslims, even in recent months, which we all know about, in Paris, Copenhagen, Brussels. The Islamic State is also present in other ways in Europe. It is present, because its specific methods include the fact that in countries where Muslim believers live, it carries out amazing recruitment and recruitment. In European Union countries alone, according to Interpol reports, there are 40,000 Twitter followers of the Islamic State, according to the German and French authorities, about 5,000 European citizens have already joined the Islamic State. And we know that this - although we do not know specific figures - is also significant in the Balkan countries. There are a lot of recruitment activities specifically designed for teenagers. Hundreds of teenagers go to the Islamic State who have no idea what's ahead of them. And we can't even track their fate. So the Islamic State is in Europe, and then it is a question of what we should do about it. I think - unlike András Schiffer and Jobbik - that if such a threat is in Europe, we should not turn away from it, but, on a principled basis, it is our job to deal with this issue. The international coalition, which has assembled against the Islamic State in recent months, basically builds on the UN Declaration which declared the Islamic State, ISIS, a terrorist organization. Today, 60 countries have joined the international coalition, and typically many of them are Muslim countries in the Middle East. This broad international coalition sends a message that the world's responsible governments will not allow today's relatively peaceful world to be once again dominated by violence for hundreds of years. Every country that participates in the coalition with just one person strengthens this ambition. The Coalition is trying to stop the expansion of the Islamic State and strengthen the people there so that they can build their own defence and their own country. The question is, what we, Hungary, have to do in this fight. Like I said, the Islamic State is here in Europe, he's got his hairy feet in, and Europe is us, we're us. The European system of ally relations, which Hungary built after the change of regime, and which is a historic achievement for our country, has suddenly become significant. Allied relations are not an interest-based obligation for me, but a commitment, commitment and responsibility. It is a responsibility that if our allies get into trouble, we should help them, and we can hope that, as has often not happened in our history, once we are in trouble, others will come to our aid. This is basically the purpose of the international system of allies established after the change of regime. We are dealing with the coalition against the Islamic State because we express solidarity with the people living there and with our European allies. But also because Hungary, as a potent, small but yet developed country, wants to be in a strategic position when there is a different threat. At the same time, the decision must be made in a very responsible manner. There are several things that need to be considered, and that is part of what this debate is about. One of the fundamental questions is how we think about our role in foreign policy and whether international action is justified. As the foregoing may have shown, my answer is yes, this is a legitimate step, this is a legitimate plan that I support on a principled basis. The Hungarian Defence Office has been involved in a number of logistics, reconstruction and peacekeeping missions over the past 15 years, so there have been a number of experiences that allow Hungary to undertake such a mission. This is already the second question, namely whether Hungary is undertaking a task appropriate to its ability to bear loads in such a mission. This mission is not risk-free, it is a firm engagement, and the corresponding risk assessments must be clearly carried out and the Hungarian teams must be properly prepared. At the same time, I think that Hungary should be ready for such a task because of its international role. The third question is how Hungary is preparing, whether the Hungarian foreign policy government is able to review the risks that might befall Hungary from this; whether the Hungarian foreign policy government is able to review the outcomes of the current conflict, how these political outputs affect Hungary's international relations system; and we need to be able to think ahead in a situation the details of which are not yet seen by the Hungarian Defence and Hungarian foreign policy, but also by other allies. [[15.00]] I think that this type of medium-term thinking and strategic thinking are absolutely necessary in the case of action in the Middle East. I think that we have not yet received enough information and information in this regard, and I will certainly ask questions about this at the next Commission meetings. Part of the preparation is whether Hungarian soldiers who would undertake such a mission in case of support will be properly prepared. Obviously, this has the ability to provide theoretical information, but it may be more problematic if the Hungarian government is able to produce defence tools that allow Hungarian soldiers involved in this type of action to perform their task with maximum security. Obviously, in a war situation, maximum security is also a relative thing, so it is important that the Hungarian government again makes extra efforts to ensure that this relative security comes up for them. At the same time, this whole engagement and other European allies' commitments to which the Hungarian government has recently become more open cannot cover the problem we face in the case of the foreign policy of the Orbán government. I think that this mission and similar actions must not cover the fact that the opening of the current government to the east is a serious misstep in Hungarian foreign policy. I am talking about the opening of the East, which basically began a few years ago with a spectacular extradition of the Azerbaijani killer, and to date has many elements that are alien to Hungary's natural western orientation and which have no benefits for Hungary, such as this mission today? - a trade mission led by Viktor Orbán to the eastern world. I think that the opening of the East, if this is an external trade effort, is safe to say that in recent years this has not benefited Hungary in any way. It costs an incredible amount of money to create a lot of trading houses, with no tangible, visible results. So from a commercial point of view, these investments are futile, and politically, if you can say so, even more harmful. I think that Hungary's western commitment to Hungary has been seriously questioned by the actions carried out by the Orbán government. I consider the outstanding commitment to Russia and the new commitment from Fidesz to be a specific problem. I am convinced that it is a normal, distant relationship with Russia that is historically justified for Hungary. What we have here today is a long way from that. I also see Paks II as a specific problem in terms of foreign policy. the construction objectives of a nuclear power plant, which raises a number of serious issues. It is not clear that, in terms of either financial or energy or foreign policy, this is of any benefit to Hungary, but rather I think that this is extremely harmful, and I can even say that it is a historic mistake. Today's initiative, a mission with Western commitment, must also be able to negotiate in the entire Hungarian foreign policy context, and I believe that this initiative cannot conceal the foreign policy mistakes that the Orbán government is making. Finally, I will say this time that I was in Cyprus last week, where I visited the Hungarian peacekeeping force, in many respects in order to gain direct experience of a foreign Hungarian mission. Obviously, Hungarian engagement in the UN peacekeeping mission in Cyprus is not comparable to the risk that we are talking about here today, but many of the soldiers there have already been in Kosovo, Afghanistan, and therefore on a higher risk mission. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I would like to remember them, I think that the courageous and outstanding performance they offer is great. We can be proud of them, and I would like to convey that I think that the defence government has something to do with taking the Hungarian soldiers serving abroad more seriously (The President indicated the end of the timeframe by jogging the bell. ) and their experience and work should be rewarded, should not be released from the bond of defence. Thank you for listening and for further information in the coming weeks.
u2015-03-31-106	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches, first I give the floor to Commission President Lajos Kósa, Fidesz.
u2015-03-31-107	Mr. President. Dear House, We listened to the socialist position interpreted by our colleague Márta Demeter, from which we were convinced that nothing had changed in the practices of the socialists and the Hungarian left. Just as the Russian army was called into the country without hesitation to act armed against the Hungarian legal government in accordance with the most primitive domestic political, party political and power goals in 1956, Márta Demeter explained relatively long that, regardless of the humane aspect of the whole Islamic State, regardless of the aspect of the universal human civilization values... - they are willing to judge this only on the basis of primitive, narrow-minded party political considerations, as much as everything. I would add that their position is based on an orbital lie, as the National Security Committee and the Defence Committee together could make sure that MEPs could see that, yes, CENTCOM, an agent of the US Central Command, authorized by the President of the United States, wrote the letter asking Hungary to participate in this exercise, so their position is not true. By the way, not only did the socialists, others could look at it with their own eyes, not to mention that everything was here, from the broker scandal down to the top, even to say that small investors were not protected by the government, so that they could protect people. That's another lie, my dear fellow Member. With the Buda-Cash broker scandal, 97 percent of the small investors already have their money back. [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] And Fidesz is taking the initiative to protect them in the same way in the Quaestor case, and we're gonna protect everything. And by the way, my dear fellow Member, the owner of Quaestor, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Your home banker, János Erős, has been supporting him for many long years, so we can rightly say that he is a socialist businessman. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-31-108	Thank you very much. I'll give the floor to Congressman András Schiffer for two minutes, LMP.
u2015-03-31-109	Thank you very much. Unlike Louis Kósa, I would like to talk about the subject. Congresswoman Selényi said that those who oppose military participation turn away from the problem that the Islamic State represents. I would like to say again that those who oppose participation were the first to draw attention to the Christian persecution in Northern Iraq, so we have barely turned away from the problem. Secondly, we have made clear proposals about Hungary's moral obligation and national interest in this matter. We did not turn away, but think that Hungarian interests would not be served by military participation, but, for example, by the legislative steps that we are proposing, the initiatives that Hungary should take for a stronger integration of internal security in Europe. And I am still waiting for the answer from Zsuzsa Szelényi and his fidesz principle friends that they really believe that the gross American violations that have happened with Guantánamo, Abu Ghraib, are not related to the ever-increasing spiral of brutality. Do you really think that we can break the story of what the United States has done over the past 15 years by ignoring it, but by saying that in the name of Western values, we should go to war? [[15.10]] We live in a united world, and these things, these stories, no matter how painful, are connected. Until Hungary and the so-called Western world face the injustices that have occurred in Iraq for example in the past 15 years, we will not be able to stop the ever-increasing spiral of violence. We also need to talk about this, and we must put in order what is Hungary's first interest today. It is in Hungary's first interest to represent certain principles that are important to us, and also to keep its own citizens safe. Thank you very much. [[Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2015-03-31-110	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter for two minutes, MSZP.
u2015-03-31-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to answer to President Kósa. I'm sorry if you didn't listen to my comment. I know it was a lot, because it was a lot longer than 15 minutes, but there was a lot of talk about the fact that the MSZP was committed to the fight against terrorism, by the way. That's how it was, and so it is now. I believe that this commitment cannot be called into question at any level, Mr President. For this reason, because you, when you were in the opposition, and I am sure you can't deny it even with any political self-interest, then all such missions, and they're not, because I think this is a completely different category than what we've been talking about so far, we see the operation of this terrorist organization, its peculiarities, there's no question that we have to act against this. That is why I referred to the fact that we will be proposing an amendment, and I will therefore continue to do so. You of all people should know from the opposition how these discussions worked, Mr President. It didn't work that way. We would see that you are fully aware of this responsibility if we had not been properly informed, but otherwise had it been agreed if the Prime Minister had been properly involved in this, if you could also present the political request in this regard, because so far in the last 25 years it is certain that neither you nor the governments so far have ever seen an invitation from a regional headquarters. So this should be some sort of political request. They haven't been able to demonstrate this to this day. There is no doubt that action must be taken against the terrorist organisation Islamic State, which is why we are putting forward an amending proposal, since this must be done in a form consistent with the country's capacity to carry a load and does not create excessive risks. Thank you.
u2015-03-31-112	Thank you. I give the floor to independent Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi for two minutes.
u2015-03-31-113	Thank you very much. I'd like to make a comment for Andras Schiffer. To a large extent, the debate also involves the MSZP where this particular capacity and the resulting responsibilities are. I think, like the German Foreign Minister Steinmeier, that he is right when he said that where so many people die every day, we send tents in vain. I think that if Hungary can intervene beyond humanitarian aid or participate in the coalition, we must do so. My second point is that, of course, I find it very important that such a coalition, which includes dozens of countries, has not existed before. So, obviously, this responds clearly to the situation of the global threat posed by the Islamic State and, by the way, a significant proportion of the Muslim countries in the Middle East are also involved in much more significant participation among the participating countries. And your comment on what war crimes, tortures who, when and where they commit, I don't think they belong to this specific object [[Intruder from the benches of Fidesz: He's right!]] I, of course, believe and hope that the Hungarian government is constantly lobbying in order for the United States to join the Hague International Court of Justice. It is important for the United States to participate, and I resent that this has not yet happened. We must do what Hungary can in this matter. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-31-114	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We now have further speeches from our representatives. First I give the floor to the Members who have made themselves known in writing, and then I give the floor to those who have indicated their intention to speak. The order is as follows: Zsolt Németh, Tibor Bana, Péter Kónya, Béla Turi-Kovács and Benedek Sallai, all in a 15-minute timeframe. First, I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Németh, Fidesz.
u2015-03-31-115	Mr President, Dear Minister, Dear House, First of all, I would like to give my compliments to the government. I think that their presentation is extremely timely, because the conflict is at a stage in which such a Hungarian engagement is visible and has tangible benefits, serving Hungary's rank and international recognition to a very large extent. I would like to congratulate you on this extremely well-timed proposal. I would also like to thank you for the fact that in the last few weeks, in the last three or four weeks, the government has taken the obligation to negotiate with Parliament, the parliamentary parties, seriously. Unfortunately, we cannot yet see the fruitage of this, since unfortunately, the behaviour of individual parliamentary parties does not support this. However, we must state that Viktor Orbán has also agreed with the political leaders of the parliamentary parties on this issue. Congresswoman Márta Demeter may not have been informed of this, but there has been discussions at the level of the political leader with the Prime Minister. As in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, there was also a very in-depth discussion in Parliament's committees, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, for representatives of the Defence Committee and the National Security Committee, before the formal process began to debate the proposal, and this will be discussed in addition to the Defence Committee by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. In this current situation, many questions can be raised: we can really talk about Abu Ghraib, we can talk about all kinds of broker scandal sacrifice problems, and very many questions can be brought here in such a parliamentary debate. But I think that it is worth not only to enlarge Hungary's foreign policy as a whole, but here it is specifically the security policy, the security situation of Hungary, on which it is basically justified to speak. It is undeniable that Hungary's security situation has changed dramatically over the past year, including Europe, including the Western security situation. It has two directions. One of the key directions for the revival of Russian imperial instincts is the type of aggression that Ukraine is currently exposed to, but this aggression is all Russian, so to speak, abroad, and even the eastern Member States of Europe, NATO Member States, which have to suffer daily airspace violations by NATO's allied friends. So Russian aggression is one of the very defining components of this new security situation. On the other hand, it is indeed the kind of barbarism that means that it is very simple to put it simply, which, by the way, makes itself look like Islam, but we know that it is not Islam, it is not religion, it is simply a barbarism, and the manifestation of barbarism is a quite frightening, often mesmerizing, whole-public terrorist act. Europe must face these two challenges at the same time. [[15.20]] I'm not saying there's no connection between the two, but I think that this basically requires a different approach, a different problem management. That is why we need to raise the political solution and the ratio and mixture of the military solution. In the Russian case, we can see the possibilities of a political solution for now. That is why we stress the importance of Minsk II. and, in general, along the Minsk process, we imagine the settlement of the Russian-Ukrainian conflict, although we know that it would not be possible to achieve this political solution if Russia did not have a continuing military threat, because the Russians are only such that they understand from the force. So the military component of this conflict resolution is not negligible at all, but Hungary is thinking about the political solution, and we know that in the long term, in particular, there is only a political solution. It is therefore extremely important how constitutional reform, decentralisation, and the creation of living rule of law conditions in our neighbours will develop in Ukraine. But also in the case of the southern conflict, how to deal with political and military components is a key issue. It is clear here that in the short term military action is inevitable against this barbaric and terrorist phenomenon, which poses a direct physical threat to us; it is a direct threat to Europe and Hungary. On the other hand, radical short-term military action is the only option. And indeed tents can be carried, this is also very important, and we also appreciate the activities of those who can only carry tents and come up with other humanitarian proposals. Criminal Code regulations are also important, and that is also extremely important, but this conflict can only be dealt with by military action now. Is it that Hungary should be left out for some reason? Here we have heard a lot of arguments about this. That is another issue, but dealing with this problem in the short term is only possible by military means. This military action is a prerequisite for talking about political solutions in the longer term; we can talk about interreligious dialogue, the ways in which Islam, Christianity and Judaism live together. This is also an important question. Or we can talk about how, where appropriate, an Iraqi state will function, whether it is possible and, if so, how it is possible to preserve the unity of that State. But the same can be said of Syria. We are currently talking about the fact that an area of Hungary, a population of Hungary, is now under the control of this barbaric terrorist organization. The aim is to restore the sovereignty of Iraq and Syria over this area of Hungary. To say that this is not a goal behind which the whole world must queue up, because otherwise these types of conflicts, these non-state conflicts, will take on unmanageable proportions? Well, I don't think there's much to deny the reasonableness of this objective. And it can also be seen that these terror cells are now flying the flag of the Islamic State in Africa, because Boko Haram has joined it. The epicenter of this Islamic State, this Daesh, is currently in Syria and Iraq. If we want a radical solution, we need to cut off the head, and I think that cutting off the head is now the most important task of the international community. Indeed, the role of the international community is multi-stage. Hungary does not undertake attack-fighting tasks. There are four types of engagement, so let's not slip them together. There's political, there's humanitarian, there's training, there's protective guard, there's defense type military and there's attacking military. These typologies, of course, are constrained by life; indeed, it is possible to fight when a convoy will be accompanied by this Hungarian unit, but its function is essentially that it is not an attacking fighting force. It's a distinguished engagement. In vain, ladies and gentlemen, it is a matter of Hungary moving up from humanitarian aid to one degree, and it pursues this kind of protective-guarding, but military, objective in support of the objective of training. The issue of legitimacy is a crucial issue for any such international action, and we are not going to avoid it now. There is no UN authorisation in the immediate classic sense of the word. It is in a broader sense, and this broader mandate of the two UN resolutions makes it the responsibility of the world's political community to play a role in eliminating this threat. This is not a matter of offering, honourable Members, but an elementary, moral duty for all UN Member States to put themselves in this fight. In this sense, we have this mandate, even if we have failed to reach the necessary resolution in the UN Security Council, which would turn the mission, which is currently 62 countries' actions, into an international UN mandate mission in the narrow legal sense. But indeed, this action is more like Kosovo in many respects. Mostly because the international community acted in Kosovo on the basis of lex responsibility to protect, on the basis of the responsibility of defence, against genocide. Even now, the international community is fighting a genocide when religious, ethnic communities are at risk, and in particular Christian communities are at risk, Christian communities surviving for 2,000 years are at risk of life. Hungary did not receive this support from the international community at the time, but now Hungary can grant this support to another country. As a nation of '56, I also think it is our job to act. The United States, at its request, defined the form of this engagement. Indeed, the United States has defined its form, because the United States is responsible for determining its form, but the content of this decision has been made by us Hungarians as a nation of 56 in a very correct way. NATO and all the Member States of the European Union are involved in this action, ladies and gentlemen, with the exception of one Malta. It is also very important that this mission is not a Western mission, but an extremely wide mission of 62 countries, because we can say that this is not the conflict between Islam and the Western world, but the dominant Islamic states are taking part in this fight in a military way, and the Arab League will now create its army of 40,000, which will enable it to fight this phenomenon in the long term, which I would also like to welcome. Terrorist threats are increasing. Yes, the threat of terrorism is increasing, but I think that the panicking that many of us have heard here is extremely irresponsible. If the threat of terrorism were not increased, the risk of refugees would increase, the nuclear threat would increase, the humanitarian threat would increase. It is therefore a question of various forms of tension. We need a radical, radical solution. By the way, the most important correlation of the terrorist threat is the large number of embedded Islamic communities. Fortunately, there is no such risk in Hungary. I think, unfortunately, the opposition is demonstrating its inability to govern if it is unable to understand these aspects. The government's coordination and information was exemplary. This is a commitment to universal values. The anti-USA and the anti-Fidesz seem to overwhelm the thinking of some opposition parties and representatives. [[15.30]] In the end, perhaps we could say that the United States and Fidesz are funding the Islamic State just to introduce a larger dictatorship here in Hungary or to turn the world into a prison. Well, ladies and gentlemen, your logic brings us here. A meaningful distinction between national interest, internal policy and foreign policy would be the task that opposition parties should combat. I wish you good luck with that. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-31-116	Thank you very much, committee president Zsolt Németh. The next announced speaker was Congressman Tibor Bana, Jobbik.
u2015-03-31-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, My fellow Adam Mirkóczki faction has highlighted the most important aspects that are why we strongly reject the US-led military engagement against the Islamic State in the coalition. I would like to underline a few points, and I would like to support our position on this issue with further arguments, and, of course, I would also like to respond to the opinions that have been expressed in recent minutes. Of course, it should be seen that ISIS is indeed a serious risk, primarily active in Iraq, Syria and Lebanon, but we can also meet with allied and sympathetic groups in other states. Boko Haram has already been referred to by a number of people who are engaged in terrorist activities in Nigeria, Niger, Chad and Cameroon; they have even recently formally formed an alliance with ISIS. It cannot be emphasized enough that Jobbik strongly condemns the horrors and antihuman actions associated with the Islamic State, whether it be actions against Christians or the action against Muslims rejecting the extreme version of Islam. Barbarous, despicable acts are linked to the Islamic State, against which there is a need for firm, firm action, but not in this form. It is worth weighing in on, however, how ISIS was created and who has the responsibility to do so. I've been told about this before. There is no way around the fact that the United States of America has a serious and clear responsibility for the development of this situation in the region. And it is important to underline that it is not a NATO or UN mission in this case, but a coalition organised by the US, in which Hungary has never participated. For example, in Iraq, Afghanistan, we also took part as part of a NATO mission, although we did not support these military engagements either. Here, on behalf of my fellow Member, Mr Zsolt Németh, it was said that everyone in NATO and EU Member States is taking a role in some way. Yes, but among the surrounding countries, it seems that we are the only ones who are so slavish about this issue, and we will also play a role militaryly if the Parliament gives the necessary two-thirds authority in the fight against ISIS. A number of examples could be set, such as Bulgaria, who made it clear that humanitarian aid would definitely be provided. I add that, of course, we consider this important, too, to be our moral duty, but beyond that, we would not have any other task in this regard. Similar considerations should guide us, for for example, the issue of immigration has a strong impact on us, and we should really focus on this. However, it cannot be ignored that, if Hungarian participation were to take place, Hungary would advance in the ranking of ISIS targets. Here our pro-government fellow Members urged the need to separate guarding activities and the action of fighting units. However, what you can see here is that the boundaries are blurred in such a situation, and it is also part of the completeness of the picture that the ISIS is characterised by unexpected assassination attacks, even far from the areas they own. So in this way Hungarian soldiers would be exposed to this danger. And to talk about going to a safe place here, that's why, I think, it's quite thoughtful and very relative to the concept of a safe place in such a war situation. I do not think that the Islamic State will separate the way in which a given country plays a role in the region. So I don't think you're considering exactly what kind of background, what purpose we're going to be in there right now. Yes, that would certainly increase the threat of terror in our country. I think it would also be worth listening to the opinion of Hungarian society, Hungarians, on this issue. I am sure that this engagement will be rejected by an overwhelming majority, and if they were given sufficient information, I think this ratio would be convincing. There are huge risks, and I do not think that the US request should be met in such a slavish manner in this case. It must be underlined that we have no obligation in this regard. And you need to see what they've come up with in the past, for example, with air strikes. The number of Islamic State gunmen has steadily increased over the last few weeks, and it can be said that the number of members of the terrorist organisation is increasing by around a thousand per month. So what I would stress many times is that, of course, we would also consider it important to provide assistance indirectly. This would be our Christian and moral duty in the form of humanitarian aid. But beyond that, we cannot support any military engagement. What we need to focus on is to prevent terrorists from infiltrating or leaking back into Europe. We have made concrete proposals here, even with regard to the restoration of the border guard. This is what we should be paying attention to and focusing on, and what trainings are taking place not far from the Hungarian border. I would also briefly mention the costs, although we do not see any concrete figures, but we have heard from government statements that we can only talk about between HUF 10 billion and HUF 20 billion in the first year, and we would take this action by the end of 2017. The other part is that we also want to buy material conditions and equipment from the United States of America, which could again amount to billions of items where appropriate. Mr. Secretary, you're shaking your head here. I know that Minister Szijjártó has also made this nuanced statement today, but it is a fact and it is true that this could also be a serious cost to our country, directly through the wallet. But I do not want to focus on this, but rather on the arguments I have already made, and on which it is clear that we have no military place in the region. How can this be justified? We want to serve the US's geostrategic interests so clearly. And it is very false to refer to the Western community in this regard, because it is necessary to see that the United States of America once stood on one side of the conflict in the region, once upon a time, depending on what was in its best interests. I think it's pretty cynical. We're not supposed to be here militaryly or in arms transport. It has also been said here that we should at least show the appearance of government power in our attitude, in our speeches, when we talk about this issue. I do not think that it is a measure of government power to meet such a request first, voluntarily and singing, while, as I have already pointed out, none of the neighbouring countries would like to play such a role. And it's also talkative that in the coalition against ISIS, another coalition seems to be collaborating. In addition to Fidesz-KDNP, we have heard a statement like this from the Hungarian Liberal Party and from the Democratic Coalition. It is unfortunate that this is the way in which the two-thirds majority will have a good chance. I am asking the Government and my fellow members of the Government to review their position. Although looking back here for the last five years, it may seem a little naive to ask you to do so, and unfortunately, we are now in relatively weak numbers in this debate. I hope, however, that there may be Members in the ranks of Fidesz and KDNP who are really weighing up the arguments, and that they will press the buttons in view of this in the vote. [[15.40]] After all, it is clear that there are left-wing dwarf parties that clearly support this issue, but if there were some on the government side who would take their own opinions in caracan - because I am also sure that they all do not agree at all with this role - then there would not be this two-thirds majority. We will definitely reject this, we will press no. I trust that there will be some people on the pro-government side who will be, like, a lad on the dam. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-31-118	Thank you, Congressman Tibor Bana. The next scheduled speaker is Mr Péter Kónya.
u2015-03-31-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, I was somewhat relieved that, prior to the presentation of the proposal for a decision, the faction leaders had at least tried to consult either the National Security Committee or the Defence and Police Committee, or received other briefings; most of them were obviously held in closed session. Many of you know that before I became a Member of Parliament, I served my country as a professional soldier for a good 25 years, although unfortunately, according to László Kövér's decision, I cannot use the expertise that I have acquired during this period either on the Defence and Police Committee or on the National Security Committee. However, I think it's obvious that I'm not a faction leader, and I don't belong to a faction, but as an expert, it might have been nice to have this information shared with me, and maybe I could have used that expertise. Accordingly, I will be less concerned with the political aspect of my speech, but I would like to draw your attention to a few professional things and to share the dilemmas that arise precisely from the lack of information. The Minister has promised that further discussions will be possible even with Members before the decision is taken. I would like to announce here that I am open to all discussions, and if I get the right answers to the questions that I am presenting now - and I do not necessarily expect these answers in an open plenary session, but I think that in order to be able to make a decision when pressing the ballot box, which is a responsible decision, I need certain information. The proposal for a decision clearly shows that international action against the Islamic State is not our commitment to NATO membership, but can be the result of a voluntary offer, a voluntary commitment. Accordingly, the first and most important question about the proposal for a resolution is whether, before this proposal for a resolution has been submitted to Parliament, the impact assessments and risk assessments carried out by security experts on how the participation of Hungarian soldiers in this international coalition increases the threat of terrorism for Hungary. I can only trust that this has not been done in the same way as, say, the impact assessment of Sunday's closings. This is a much more serious and more responsible question. However, since the proposal for a decision is quite general, let me say a few questions that I think may rightly be of interest to those who have to make the decision. For example, the proposal for a resolution does not reveal the order of the field management. How will the logistics of the quota be resolved? We know very well from our international participation that it is not a simple task to solve this. Obviously, this is a special international coalition where these issues need to be clarified. The decision does not show how much it will cost to operate this quota in this field of war, nor does it show what it will be financed from, since this year's budget of the Hungarian Defence Forces has not been designed for this purpose, and it obviously requires additional funding to provide it. But the proposal for a resolution also does not - and I think this is also an important piece of information - how cooperation with the Kurdish and the Iraqi authorities and in what cooperation with the international coalition will carry out these tasks. We also received very little information about this training base in Erbil, the protection of which will be provided by the Hungarian soldiers as planned. We also do not know - and the proposal for a decision is very general - where, who and what tasks will be performed either in tribal or insurance positions, which will be performed by Hungarian soldiers outside the training base. Nor did we receive oral information, nor does the proposal for a resolution cover whether the Hungarian military contingent is prepared to receive special training and training before being sent out, because either the experience gained in peacekeeping or peace-building operations or the knowledge acquired there is not enough in the fight against terrorists, because we all know that terrorism and terrorists use a completely different tactical element. This requires special training. For example, do we receive international help from professionals who are otherwise experienced in the fight against terrorism? I would like to ask why it has not occurred to the government that the professionals of the counter-terrorism centre will be involved in this mission, even because, if we think about it, a number of police officers who are in service there will be left without a task, as we know that President Áder János will be protected in the future by the Preparedness Police and that they obviously have free capacity. It's time that the counter-terrorism center's staff can practice the fight against terrorism in real time once they've been sent out, so it's safe to send out a mixed task force, not only soldiers, but also police officers from the counter-terrorism center. Obviously, we do not know everything here in a public forum, and I do not wish you to answer, Minister, but if I can get an appropriate answer to these professional questions before making a decision, then I will be able to consider my decision. I'm sure I'm going to vote no right now if I don't get the right answer. Thank you for listening. [[Laszlo Kiss applauds.]]
u2015-03-31-120	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll give the floor to Congressman András Schiffer for two minutes, LMP.
u2015-03-31-121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Speaking of the responsible decision here, President Zsolt Németh remains in the air: what do we know about the supply channels of this terrorist organization? How can we make a responsible decision about a military engagement without knowing what potential resources the opponent, the enemy, has? Congresswoman Selényi says that American human rights violations are not relevant. On the other hand, I think Guantánamo may have given birth to more terrorists than they've ever taken into custody. The Guantánamo prison has weakened the United States more than it would have brought security. And the violation of human rights by the United States has also contributed to the birth and strengthening of a terrorist organization called the Islamic State by storming Iraq in 2003 and crushing human rights against the brutality of Abu Ghraib in Baghdad or the American base in Guantánamo. Dear Parliament, It has been recognised that military engagement increases security risks. From now on, we need to consider what the sense of security of the Hungarian people is worth. I find it rather frivolous that the Fidesz MEP, Zsolt Németh, is reviving Parliament by increasing the nuclear threat - well, please, perhaps we should not expand nuclear power plants. [[Interviews in the ranks of Fidesz.]] But don't be sad, Zsolt Németh, because you don't have to put the entire opposition under the same roof, you have loyal allies, because the Gyurcsányists and the champions have already assured Fidesz of their support. [[Lajos Kósa: Sure, Gyurcsány has entered the Fidesz! You didn't know? Come with me. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Parliament, I think that someone who can clearly see the security risks we're taking against an opponent who has no idea of his supply bases should talk about government power and responsibility. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-31-122	Thank you very much. The next speaker is Congressman Béla Turi-Kovács, Fidesz.
u2015-03-31-123	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Every question when it comes to the decision that Hungary is involved in some kind of war conflict has a huge responsibility for all of us, individually, individually, for the parties, for the factions, but I do not deny that I personally feel that I do, too. [[15.50]] We small farmers have an unbroken position. After the end of World War II, the world, the peoples, created the United Nations with the knowledge that it will no longer come to the fate of the League of Nations, but it will be the United Nations that will rule out that the great and superpowers, the small and medium powers that want to play a superpower role, are corrupting and disrupting peace alone, alone, against the world. We had to be disappointed very quickly, because there was a debate between North Korea and Korea, followed by Vietnam, followed by wars that we often want to ignore, we talk about peace in the world, while looking at any point in the world, we find war conflicts almost everywhere. In the particular situation that we are discussing here today, we are trying to discuss it for a long time, it is a much more serious issue than simply deciding what direct advantages and disadvantages come from it. I'd like to talk to you about what I think we should be careful about. First of all, it is important to avoid any engagement where the levels are not limited or the duration is not limited, but, above all, it is not territorially limited. The latter is one of the most serious issues. The fundamental question is that the conflict that now covers Syria, Iraq, now South Jemen, Africa, has also appeared there, to what extent this kind of conflict requires a commitment on our part. We need to clarify what it is that we are going to go as far as we intend to fulfil this commitment, as long as we intend to fulfil this commitment without going beyond the objectives, and I would now also like to talk about the goals that I would also like to mark, in particular, in a way that is not. There have been many references here, and it has shocked us all, as much as anyone else in this House, the murders and inhumanities that have been committed, but not yesterday, not the day before yesterday, but since the conflict in Iraq. Is the memory that short? Hundreds of people died in the marketplace in the bombings. They blew up mosques where the mass of Islamic believers died because they were Shiites, and the other because they were Sunni. And the world didn't move! I think that if you want to move now, that can and should be supported, the scale must be correctly determined. I would like to point out one more thing: this conflict cannot be a Christian-Islamic conflict. If we try to define this as a Christian-Islamic conflict, we will take the world in a direction from which there will be no going back. There are 1 billion 300 million Muslims in the world, and they believe in the same god that Christians believe in. That 1 billion 300 million Islamic believers, Muslims, are just as deeply religious and deeply believing in their own religion as many of us, Christians, should. That's why I think that when we take this to a place like this, we're wrong. [[Sallai is consulting with R. Benedict Kósa Lajos.]] It is clear and clear to me that what we are talking about here is that creating peace within an area is a fundamental goal and a task. You have to say this, you don't have to tell me that we're so horrified that we're going to send soldiers to Iraq. Why didn't we startle a year ago, two years ago, five years ago? This conflict didn't start yesterday, and it hasn't been happening since yesterday. It is clear that that conflict must be stopped in some way, and we Hungarians are interested in this, like all people in this land, in such a way that the values and the spiritualities which, unfortunately, are pinned on the flag of this group called the Islamic State, which, with some euphemism, is called euphemism. But let's not mess with Islam. I would like to point out something else with great emphasis. Dear House, A war we get involved in can start, but we never see the end of it. I didn't say that, it's been said a long time ago: we see the beginning of war, we never see the end of it. We are now trying to determine participation in a way that allows us to see the end of it. It must be made clear how far this responsibility extends in time! [[Dr. Csaba Hende: He's in!]] Yes, it is clear, and if it appears to be reassuring, then I think that the Hungarian people should think about how much protection this will provide us. Dear House, I think, and it is quite clear why this must be circumscribed, muffled, and all kinds of perjury, it is clear that we are part of a federal system that has been protected by Hungary within the federal system, and we would obviously like to maintain this protection in the future. That is why there are certain expectations and obligations. I agree that the extent of these expectations and obligations should be determined by us. Let's not go beyond what serves our immediate interests and values. In this respect, I am convinced that I can say with a calm spirit that this path must be found. I'm not entirely sure that this is now or today quite precisely defined and defined. You have to think about it, think about it. Nothing rushes us to make a decision tomorrow, fortunately there will be no vote tomorrow. Therefore, I think that thoughtfulness is very, very necessary in this regard. I would like to point out the following. What is happening now in the Middle East will not be resolved, and you will also have to see this, if we can bring together a huge military force. But I strongly doubt that anyone will really want to send their soldiers into battle. They'll try to solve these cases by plane, which they've never done before. But let us assume that this conflict is being located in this area. This case hasn't been solved. The root of this crisis is much deeper. The roots of this crisis are far-reaching. It is not that there is a conflict between religions, but that there are countries and peoples in this House, which, for a long, long time since colonial times, have felt that the colonial period has not ended. Thus, it must also be done so that these peoples and nations feel that they too belong to or belong to the association of so - called free peoples. The first step is to create order in one area. And if Hungary plays a certain role in this, a limited, very limited role in space and in a time-limited way, then this is worth thinking about. However, the definition of the conditionality is one of the most important. Once again, I would say that if we start on this path and this opportunity is given by Parliament and then by the government, the government will have an unheard of responsibility for setting these limits and these rules in such a way that this is in Hungary's best interests. Someone here asked me, "What do we have to do in the world?" It's not that hard to answer. It's not about serving other countries. It's not about responding to others. Our sole task is to serve this nation, this Hungary, the people living here, the Hungarians living here, all Hungarians living in this region, in the Carpathian Basin. That's what we do. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] And if there's anything we can do about it, then we have to do it. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-03-31-124	Welcome, fellow Members. I now give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek in a normal time frame.
u2015-03-31-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I don't know what kind of parliamentary dialogue should take place. Believe me, I don't have any political precepts, I just want to get to know your arguments, because some things aren't clear to me at all. When my Fidesz fellow Member yells that it is impossible to see a lot of things clearly, that is exactly what worries me and encourages the Fidesz people to act. That's what I don't understand, how we might react so differently. [[16.00]] Obviously, there is a zone in this region that has been destabilized by the very active activity of the United States, the very determined actions of the United States have encouraged it to radicalise and create a monster. We note that the United States, with the largest army in the world, has the power to overcome the horror it created, with the highest share of its total budget in terms of GDP, owning 31 percent of the world's total annual military budget. He's got all the means to do it. He could do it. But he doesn't, because he knows the horse's foot's hanging out. He knows that he has a responsibility in this, and therefore he wants to smear this responsibility in such a way that he wants to legitimise his participation by asking such small states and all sorts of countries to participate in it. We're in this responsibilities situation, and I feel like we're trying to assist you with the fact that if we go into this game, and I obviously don't like it, because I feel like if America is cooking something, then eat what it's cooking, and that's my point. He created a problem in the world, to deal with the problem. In this, Hungarian society has no responsibility for what was created there. Obviously, I could accept the arguments, because there were a lot of arguments for them, and I also thought about how to deal with them all. Mr Firtl began his speech by enumerating and making full sense the crimes committed against humanity at the expense of the Islamic State. I fully agree, and I also agree that Hungarian citizens, living with the ability to live like this, have a responsibility in global tasks. I think that, as an eco-party, LMP has always stood up for our global responsibility for a lot of events, but what we see is that, in the case at hand, there is no global responsibility. It's about what America wants from us. At the same time - that's why the Internet is good for helping us here - I started to write: Rwanda, Sudan, Nigeria, Cameroon, Central African Republic - here in the last, in the Central African Republic, Christians suffered atrocities in December 2013, 300 died - a pile of African states where, in addition to similar incidents, we didn't even talk about it, not even in a Hungarian Parliament after the agenda, that we would have a responsibility to protect Christians or to promote any peace there. There has been only one speech for these states in order to protect human rights as far as possible. So what's the reason we're going in exactly the direction America tells us to go? And obviously, I don't like the fact that America wants us to do anything. I very much liked the introduction of Mr Béla Turi-Kovács, because in many ways his assessment of the situation gave me the conclusions, but the conclusion was that we should be more thoughtful, but it was not that we had to look for the measure, because I think that, if we have no responsibility in all of this, we need to deal with our own tasks and not be involved in restoring the damage caused by America. Because let's face it, what Mátyás Firtl said is not the solution to dealing with the problems. So we're pretending that if I don't know how many brigades - or I don't know how many armies there are or what they're called - I don't know how many regiments we'd send there, I don't know how many tanks and airplanes. So these speeches support the fact that we can make order there. It's not like that. We're nothing but a little beauty patch in America's action. [[Gyula Vantara: I thought it was somewhere else.]] So this is what we need, and it costs the Hungarian State a lot of money. Obviously I don't want to, so I'm asking you to excuse me, I don't want to be demagogic, just when I'm looking here on the Internet for news about this, to read as much news as possible, the HVG website says that 5.5 billion has been transferred to this operation today by government decision, published in the Gazette. According to hvg.hu, the operation may exceed 20 billion until the end. At the same time, this internet is strange, because on one site there is not one news, but a variety of advertising, what is on the same site? In Hungary, a person dies of cancer every 15 minutes. So it's weird when I see 5.5 billion being immediately transferred to a government decision, in the Gazette, while, let's say, to prevent the death of Hungarian people, I don't know when any government has spent 5.5 billion on cancer research or health care for the last time. I don't want to be demagogic, it's just that if we grade our costs, we have to look at the benefits of Hungarian society. Mr Béla Turi-Kovács said that we have to take on the commitments, but in the meantime, many Members before me have said that we have no obligation. There is no single member of the government who has not told us, has not read the place of law or place of contract that would oblige us to do so. It's a voluntary commitment. Volunteering, which costs a lot of money, does not bring benefits, does not provide security for Hungarian citizens, but can increase it. So I still don't understand, even after all these speeches, what's behind it, what's the argument that proves that it can be justified. [[Dr. Vas Imre: You weren't listening!]] Obviously, there may be opportunities for foreign trade or foreign policy in the US, so obviously the Fidesz Cabinet after the eco-social case and after Goodfriend and after the Russian approach, there must be gestures from a foreign policy point of view. But I think it costs a lot, and there's no reason to risk it. So I'm asking you to give me arguments that, with any legislation, with any contract, would say that we have an obligation to do so, because so far it has not been said. Read us where we have an obligation. And if we have no obligation, then what is the reason for this? Of all the events in the world that violate human rights, why is this the most important thing for the Hungarian government? Why do you think that's the most important thing? So they justify that this is more important than what happened anywhere in Africa with others. Aren't those people important to the Hungarian government? Are they not Christians, or are they not good Christians? Or what's the reason we're here saying yes and there we're saying no? How will Hungarian society benefit from all of this? I agree clearly that risks cannot be assessed, and there are even expert opinions who say that there is no necessarily an increase in the risk of terrorism, so that they can be read. At the same time, we can clearly see that there are links. In Spain, a similar intervention took place 12 years ago, within a few days, a terrorist act took place in the same way. You gotta see this. At the same time, you are either naive or stupid, or I do not know what to assume that events in America - the faction leader spoke a lot about Guantánamo, I do not want to repeat - would not be directly related to the responsibility of America. Again, I read an expert opinion, which I fully share, so I say as my own opinion:. The most shameful aspect of the war on terrorism so far is the consistent disregard of international human rights by the United States. In many cases there has been a breach of the requirement of legal proceedings against persons suspected of terrorist acts, in which a number of cases torture has also been used as a key form of interrogation. Targeted killings, including drone attacks, sanctioned by the State, along with other military actions, have disproportionately affected the civilian population. With the war on global terror announced by President Bush, the United States is in a constant war against countries called its enemies in the Middle East. D.C. created these enemies, most of them by itself. Obama is still at war against Afghanistan, Pakistan, Yemen, Somalia, Libya, Syria and Iran. The once stable and strong Arab countries, thanks to the US, are now in ruins and the region is destabilized. The war on terror is terrorism. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. That's the conclusion. It is an important sentence that the war against terror is terrorism in this form. Due to what Congressman Zsolt Németh said in the somewhat later speech that he had to cut off the head of the snake or use a figure of speech like that, this is precisely the specialty of terrorism, that we have no idea where his head is. Maybe it's not worth anything. Maybe he's got a head in civilized states with billion-dollar skyscrapers in big cities that we can't handle. It's an incorrect response to your effects. It does not address the causes, we do not eliminate what radicalizes and destabilizes the region, but an action on the outcome of an effect. I am obviously so skeptical in this, and I fully agree with my party's opinion because I do not see Hungary's responsibility. What I see is that the United States has created a monster, the US has all the power to defeat this monster if it wants to, but instead it stirs up conflicts even in countries where this issue does not arise primarily, as we are discussing now. Believe me, but I really don't want to... - I care as much about Hungarian citizens as you do, but I do not see that these citizens have any positive results from this intervention, but I do see that it creates risks and very high costs. That is why I ask you to understand that I cannot support it, but there is still the possibility that you would make an argument or an obligation that would support your position. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-03-31-126	I now give the floor to Congressman László Kiss for a two-minute comment.
u2015-03-31-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Although I haven't lived myself in '56, '66, '76, so I can't be an objective target for this empty babbling, so I'd like to join Béla Turi-Kovács in commenting who, I think, has put arguments in this debate that make it worthwhile to move on. The problem, or the question here, is that in this fight - which, if you like, may have moral content, which President Zsolt Németh has spoken about - the role that Hungary is doing is what it is like. [[16.10]] As my fellow Member, Mr Demeter, said that if there had been a discussion about Hungary's accession to these coalitions in excess of 60 countries last year and the supply of humanitarian aid and weapons; well, if there had been an agreement on this, the MSZP would have said that yes, it considers this to be a sufficient support, and it considers this to be a sufficient engagement. This was not discussed at the time, so we did not have a chance to say it. We are talking about the fact that while we are now participating in a coalition, of which sixteen are taking on military roles from sixty countries, and I understand that one neighbouring country or most of the surrounding countries are not doing so, we are increasing Hungarian involvement in this. The Hungarian Socialist Party says that it does not support this in its current form, but is willing to talk about the form in which we can increase this engagement. That's what turned out to be a gross rejection. By the way, I note that in the context of the negotiations, the way to raise this other issue of engagement was not a substantive one. Therefore, these discussions are a bit like the old joke about the exchange of views when you go into your boss's office with your own opinion and come out with his. Well, you wanted to continue such discussions, in this way, we really could not be partners in this form. Thank you. [[Marta Demeter applauds.]]
u2015-03-31-128	I am asking my fellow Members if there is anyone else who would like to comment on the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, Congresswoman Márta Demeter has indicated in a normal time frame. I give you the floor.
u2015-03-31-129	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. We really have had a lot of comprehensive discussions on this issue today, and with a lot of arguments that we cannot interpret or better not go into the dissection of these. I would like to remind my fellow Member of our position once again, because I can see that there have been further questions in this regard. Here, in several speeches, the pro-government representatives argued as if they were taking the debate and argument in the direction that Hungary had so far not taken any role in the fight against the terrorist organisation called the Islamic State, which is not true. As my fellow Member has mentioned and repeatedly said, with military equipment at the end of last summer and humanitarian aid, quite rightly, Hungary is an active member of the coalition that is fighting against the terrorist organization Islamic State. We are now discussing that this is almost the highest level of engagement. So from here on out, there's only one higher level of what the government is talking about as an ultimatum. So, while he could not present a political request on this matter, as a matter of fact, as a matter of fact, sent through the press to the parties, a number of things happened, I said that it was a mere reconciliation, because I also considered it to be a little information, and I admit it honestly; not because I would like to poo, but because, as President Zsolt Németh rightly pointed out, this is a very serious issue. We just want to see that your weight is being handled by the government as well. It is particularly worrying that in no way could any pro-government representative, minister or secretary of state contradict the sentences that we have read in the press in several places, and at the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, my fellow Member Attila Mesterházy asked the Minister whether it was true that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán argued that this engagement was necessary because he was trying to consolidate the Hungarian-American relationship in a negative direction because of the government's failure, and thus the government wants to increase its internal political space. Minister Péter Szijjártó refused to respond, and did not contradict the Prime Minister's statements. [[Lajos Kósa: He said that wasn't true. He didn't deny it, he said it wasn't true.]] It is not a question for us, and thanks to God, for Hungarian society, it is not a question of what community of values we belong to and which alliance we belong to. The problem is that while you are arguing in favour of the community of values, we can't distract you from the policy of the last five years, let's see what the trend was. There is an ongoing interest-based policy, an interest-based foreign policy, rather than a value-based one. Obviously, there are some of you who disagree with the fact that politics is only a matter of interest, but right now, there's a turnaround. I think that what President Kósa has said that actions must be manifested, in the last five years, should have shown in action what value-based policy and belonging to the Western community mean to the government and that it actually takes place in action. So we did not receive any rebuttal that the government was not merely trying to expand its internal political scope with this offer. However, we continue to insist that the current level, form of humanitarian aid and support for military equipment, of the offer, of our participation, can continue to be supported. Whether this can, of course, be enhanced and, as we have said several times, I would stress once again that the military may take over parts of their health capabilities, training tasks, assistance in them, education, training, offering cyber security capabilities, and in this direction can be enhanced by participation, otherwise, without evacuating to the operational area. That is, therefore, our position, and I very much hope that you will rethink this situation with responsibility, and that you will make a decision in this spirit. Thank you very much. [[Gyula Vantara applauds.]]
u2015-03-31-130	I now give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kósa in a normal time frame.
u2015-03-31-131	Mr. President. Dear House, Just to make it clear that the meeting was held: the main committee, where the Prime Minister, the Minister of War, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the relevant State Secretarys-General, the political leaders of the parliamentary parties, the chairmen of the committees concerned, of course, has been consulted several times in this matter with the Prime Minister. Before the normal parliamentary process started. Of course, there was also a five-party group leader-level consultation before the presentation was presented to Parliament. In addition, the competent parliamentary committee, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the National Security Committee and the Defence Committee have discussed this matter twice. The necessary information has been made available to Members at an appropriate level. Martha Demeter might know that. I am very sorry that it was not possible for him to attend a closed meeting of the Defence Committee, but his fellow Member, I stress, and indeed not only the Socialist Party MEP, but also other opposition representatives personally looked into the letter that CENTCOM, under the authority of the President of the United States, wrote about this request. So when Márta Demeter says there was no invitation, she simply isn't telling the truth. He's not telling the truth. In view of the fact that this, by the way, contained confidential information and even sensitive information from a national security point of view, of course, it could not be duplicated, no photocopy could be made of it, but there was a opposition representative who otherwise took note of the letter. Obviously, Márta Demeter would like the normal correspondence of international legal and foreign policy contacts to take place in the mailing section of political newspapers, because only then would he give a credible statement that otherwise the request has been made. Unfortunately, there is no way to do this, but I will say this again: Márta Demeter is not telling the truth, at the closed session of the Defence Committee and the National Security Committee, the Minister for Defence presented this letter of appeal. On the other hand, I very much like the fact that the MSZP, of course, has a better understanding of this issue in the fight against the Islamic State than the United States leading this international coalition. [[16.20]] But the situation is this: it was not written in this letter that Hungary was kind, we ask you to take part in this, and determine why, instead, the request refers to a completely specific military task, which does not mean a fighting force, but rather, in Hungarian, security and personal protection, personal insurance. So dear Marta Demeter! You may imagine military operations not being told by the military leader who does what, but by children who want to do what. But that's not how international military actions usually go. It is not, therefore, an idea that the various parliamentary representatives of the participating countries will put together an international military action against the Islamic State with proposals that otherwise amend it; there is no such type of amateurism. So it's kind of you to understand more about what is needed in relation to a possible participation than in the leading United States, but you have no way of saying that we would have been involved, just not in this way, because here's the thing: the house is on fire, there's someone running the fire, and he says that if you want to help, bring a ladder. It doesn't help if you say you don't, I think you need two buckets of water. Because it's not a help, it's a false attitude, because otherwise they say no, they refuse to participate in it, because it's beautiful in words, it's fantastic in emotions, they never go next door for word flowers, but otherwise when it's necessary, we refuse to do anything. This has already been revealed several times in the comments of Márta Demeter, because they have quite petty, internal political, limited party political interests, in which the centre is that whatever the Fidesz government is doing is wrong, and we are grasping every existing means to combat it; if it is in the nation's interest, if not, it is completely irrelevant to you. I think that it is possible to take such a position; that is precisely why the Socialist Party's view of the Hungarian public stands as it stands, because they represent this policy. I think that in a case such as the fight against the Islamic State - where it really is not about party political considerations, but about whether the international community can actually stand by and watch the activities of an organization that is against all the common values that we believe to be universal - everyone is involved in this coalition, from countries of Islamic religion and belief to democracies and kingdoms, or very many are involved; the majority is not on the basis that there is some kind of internal political consideration behind it, but on the basis that it is not possible to tolerate what the Islamic State represents. This is an attack on universal human values, including Christianity, Islam, humanity, which is what today's XXI. In a world of the century, it can be tolerated without a word, so please, we can all draw very sad conclusions for ourselves. As, by the way, at the time, the international community acted in a conflict in Hutu, as the international community intervened in the civil war of the southern Slavic states, because it was not possible to stand by and watch what was being genocide in the case of the southern Slavic states. I think it's a similar situation. And dear Marta Demeter. You are wrong, because under the Fidesz government, military missions have been carried out in the most diverse regions of the world, Afghanistan, Kosovo, Cyprus. Not long ago, we discussed the Minister of Defence's report on last year's military engagements, where you were the speaker of the MSZP. After all, to say that we are not, or are not, involved in, the fight against terrorism, I think it is an impertinent and even safe thing to say, a face-toaster lie, which there are few examples, because otherwise it is quite obvious that we are involved in this. Once again, you can say two things: yes, no. They can't say that we do, but we don't want to, because otherwise we want to participate in military cooperation by deciding how, and not by a central control, who's in charge. This is completely nonsense, who says this, obviously just wants to conceal that he does not want to participate, but dares to say that because we have internal political calculations, and we do not want to participate in it in any way, because in this sense, when we have to talk in Parliament, we have beautiful words about humanity and human values and all kinds of things, but when we have to do something about it, we immediately pull ourselves out of it. I think that's where the nail comes out of the bag. And, dear Parliament, There are a lot of things that you do that don't necessarily have to be your first question about where it's good for me, what I'm getting out of it, why it's in my interest. We'll stop at an accident. What good is it for me to help you? No good, my time is gone, I'll get my clothes stitched together, and then I'll be dragged as a witness in the official negotiations, yet I'll stop; whoever stops, we'd like to stop. And we are not just talking about how weak social solidarity is, how people pass each other, but we need to stop when people are lying on the ground; we need to stop when it's serious. In all other cases, there are only word flowers, in all other cases there are only word flowers. I think that the kind of beneficial approach that the LMP has expressed in the debate is therefore unacceptable, even if our fellow Member introduces this with a preliminary sentence that otherwise there are no political preconceptions. It is just not clear whether it was about whether you have no political ideas or values, or whether you come to a debate without thinking about it, or whether you really want to discuss it impartially. If we discuss it impartially, there is a dimension of life, a dimension of human life, when we do not ask where it is good for me, what is my benefit. This is a very common approach or view, which has been particularly widespread since the change of regime, that one of the important issues in each case is to clarify where this is good for me. Look, my fellow Member. There are a lot of things that people do on the basis of value choices, if you like, on the basis of preconception, and if we do that, then, of course, a lot of things can be said about the US foreign policy. It's true, the only question, by analogy, is that when I walk up to the bleeding man on the ground, it's my first sentence that, you see, you shouldn't have worn slippery shoes, right? You wouldn't have fallen! Some people ask that; some people say, "Well, that's the way it is, mate, help yourself." But sometimes you don't ask that, but you ask how you can cooperate, and if you create the conditions for cooperation, you either say yes or you don't. That beneficial approach, I say once again, is extremely difficult for me to accept on certain issues, and our position in the whole Islamic State action does not mean that, of course, we cannot ask a thousand questions about the US's foreign policy, and we often ask questions about the US's policy, whether we are allies with the United States, but that does not mean we have to agree on everything, and the Allies can discuss these matters among themselves. But, you know, my fellow Member, if I go to the bleeding man on the floor, I will help him first, and at the very least, if he recovers, I will say that next time I think we shouldn't buy slippery shoes, because it is dangerous for the man. But that's not what I'm saying. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, I think the positions on the part of the various factions are quite clear. I would like to thank those who support this proposal, and I very much hope that there will be enough information in the coming time, and there will obviously also be a committee meeting on this matter, which may make Members think. I believe that we have a universal obligation to take action against the Islamic State, that is to say, this terrorist organisation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[16.30]]
u2015-03-31-132	I now give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek for a two-minute comment.
u2015-03-31-133	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Oh, that's too bad, that's too bad, Mr. President. This wounded human example, it's absolutely shocking that you're serious about this. He says this repeatedly with pictures that the wounded man needs help. That's what I'm talking about. There's five or six wounded people, you move on, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter, and then you pick one that America says you have to deal with. All the rest doesn't matter to you, that's what I'm talking about. But it's either bumblebee or he didn't understand. So, basically, that's what I've been asking for, this inconsistencies on the part of the government, why it chooses this one from the wounded. [[Lajos Kósa: Which one do you deny? I didn't do either.]] This is a very beautiful wordflower: they are wounded people; but Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said, in fact, during yesterday's question to my group leader, that it is not oligarchs, it is not the Soviet Union or what, Russia, it is not the USA that controls Hungary. Who? It's showing now. They passed by a crowd of wounded people who didn't count all over Africa, and now the United States says, "Well, that's the only thing that matters, and they're rushing there." So it's not about that. That's what value-basedness is all about: what's good for society? What's good for the world? Global responsibility. I'm not talking about economic gains, as you think most of the time, because you think that profit comes from having an economic background. No! What values are we protecting with this procedure? Because I don't see the results. You are constantly presenting the whole thing as if this entire mission depended only on Hungary. It's like without us, it's like it's going to collapse, and human rights are going to collapse all over the world. It's not that. It is about why the Hungarian Parliament, the Hungarian Parliament, should support this. Somewhere someone has created a problem, they can solve it, they have the resources, but they don't want it, they want us to make sacrifices for it. I ask you to consider these victims, and that is all I spoke about. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[László Kiss and Marta Demeter applaud.]]
u2015-03-31-134	I now give the floor to Congressman Ádám Mirkóczki, notary, in a normal time frame.
u2015-03-31-135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I promise not to take advantage of it, but I would like to respond to what has been said and to draw attention to some contradictions. To quote Mr Zsolt Németh, I was shocked to hear, perhaps he began his speech in this way, and I wrote it on purpose so that I could quote it literally. You did praise the government when you said that this military engagement is a visible, tangible benefit, and congratulations to the government. Honourable Congressman, If the worst happens and only one, only one, Hungarian soldier's life is regretted, then you will go to your relatives and say that it is visible, noticeable profit, congratulations to the Hungarian government? Why should Hungarian lives, it doesn't matter whether he's a soldier, it doesn't matter whether he's a volunteer [[Zsolt Németh: Professional. He made his choice!]] It doesn't matter if he's a professional volunteer, why do we have to drift into situations that we can't come out of? Here's the good result, here's the good result. [[Zsolt Németh: Reporter.]] In sports, 0:0. So what's considered a success here is to get away with it. You could say he's a professional, you could say he's a volunteer, talking to soldiers. [[Zsolt Csenger-Zalán: Then don't report!]] Congressman, press the button, and I'll listen, I promise, as I've always done. Speaking of soldiers, it is not negligible in their case that such foreign missions are undertaken in the event of any risk because they are paid extra. [[Zsolt Csenger-Zalán: No!]] In a lot of cases, that's why. I didn't say just and exclusively. A lot of people, a lot of cases, that's why. The same way they apply for different side jobs. But that's not the key question here. The key question here is whether we need Hungarian soldiers, whether we need Hungarian people, no matter at what level, to bring them into conflicts that we have nothing to do with in the world. If we are talking about the Hungarian Defence Office, if we are talking about Hungarian Defence, there is no risk here for Hungary. Do you know when there's gonna be a risk? When we get out. And here he is, here he is, told by Director General Zsuzsanna Végh, already more than 7,000 immigrants. Now, let's put the Kosovans aside, they're the biggest part of immigrants, but they're here on 16 March, and I know exactly this figure, there are 7,000 immigrants, Syrians, Afghans, Iraqis, whose identities and identities we don't know. Here, a few kilometers from us, is the Islamic State training camp in Bosnia, the passage - let's put it this way - is relatively free, even in the territory of Hungary, and how will we know if, where appropriate, there are refugees who can radicalise or, if necessary, commit an act that we do not want to do. And everyone here knows what we're talking about. It will not be difficult in Budapest or in any area of the country. It won't be difficult. Well, after all the subway attacks in London, they didn't just dump all the trash for a reason. So that nothing happens; at least they try to minimize it. But as the Constitutional Protection Office, as the Counter-Terrorism Center, as the experts of the Information Office say, today's terrorism is no longer a visible one, not a detectable large block of large mass troops, but specifically lone offenders, who are not even directly related to the client. How can we protect that? Not just us, no one else, the United States can't protect him, the French can't protect him, nobody can protect him. But then what's good? Because obviously, if you're indefensible... - a lone perp who organizes himself incognito, makes the plan, and then he can execute it, if it's good for us to march spectacularly into Iraq, and it doesn't matter how many soldiers. And, you know, I would like to refer to the fact that Mr President said that a distinction should be made between the level of engagement, the degree of engagement and, obviously, the specific activity. Indeed, we make a difference, yes, it can be said that these are not fighting troops. Ladies and Gentlemen, The fact that a person takes a protective role in an object is that a person provides caravans or trainers' route, there is much to say, but that he is not a fighter, it cannot be said; he may not be offensive. We enter a foreign country into the territory of a foreign nation, they, the living there, whether it be the jihadist warrior of the Islamic State, or whatever else, he will not see the Hungarian soldiers in the role of the savior, but in the role of the invader, the aggressor. And when the Hungarian flag is flying in Erbíl, or the Hungarian flag is flying in any of the fighting vehicles that accompany the convoy, they will not watch us see, yeah, yeah, they are at a different level of engagement, they are not attacking soldiers. Big fucking deal. He's gonna see that, yeah, you're gonna see that? Well, let's look around the world of the Internet and see where Hungary is closest, whether it's our people or our group, who can carry out or commit some terrible crime. That's what we're talking about here, one minute they're saying that it's good, and we're reducing the risk that if we fight the Islamic State, because if we contribute to their destruction, it's good for us. Indeed, if the Islamic State is destroyed, it is not only good for us but good for everyone. But by actually sending these soldiers out, the security risk increases exponentially. That's not good. And who's gonna take responsibility for that when the worst happens? And the numbers are going to fly here, and it's going to cost us 12 billion now, 13 billion, 20 or 30. Well, we're gonna take this money if we want to invest in this area, and we're gonna support it, and we're gonna spend it on the development of the defence, and we're gonna spend it on the expansion of the capacity of the Counter-Terrorism Center, the Information Office, the Constitutional Protection Office, so that we can take the risks against these lone offenders to the minimum possible. That's what we need to consider here. So, I would like to stress that this is a very, very bad position, and you often contradict each other. And as for the invitation at government level from the United States of America, I believe that. The gentleman, the soldier who sent the invitation or sent that ominous letter... - which is true, President Kósa is right, the Minister presented it to the joint committee of the Defence and National Security Committee. But for the sake of fact, the search was not from the White House, it wasn't from a politician. I believe it's on his behalf, but you can't convince anyone of that because we haven't seen an assignment like that. [[16.40]] I believe you, I'm only saying this because you could actually see a letter, and I'm obviously not going to say a name, rank, and all that, because, I understand, we're talking classified information, but let's be clear, it's not from the White House. So, in this sense, for the sake of fact, there was no or at least not seen by us. Of course, I will not rule out and say that there may not have been any background, either from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or from the Ministry of Defence, or from any personal request, I will not say this, but at committee level, let us state that this did not come from there. On the other hand, as regards Mr Németh's speech, I do not know why, but he has listed the Ukrainian conflict from our neighbour and he is constantly talking about Russian aggression. It is not my place to judge or even find those responsible in the Russian-Ukrainian conflict. Obviously, you have your responsibilities. But then let's also say that it is Russia that installs missiles in the neighborhood of the United States of America, or is it sending a weapon? Or the other way around? If, for the sake of factuality, we look at this issue, we see that it is precisely the US that is doing what Russia is taking action against. Whether it's good or not, I'm rooting for it, and at our own limited level and minimum level, we're trying to make peace there as soon as possible, but you can't see the Russian-Ukrainian conflict in black and white as well as this conflict that the entire Islamic State has started. So, all I would ask of everyone is that we look at the circumstances of the whole explosion in its process, either chronologically or in its context, the circumstances of the whole crisis in the Middle East, we find out and everyone can find the people responsible, and then look at our role in it. This is not a story about whether we should help or not; of course, it is a human question, a moral minimum. It's a moral level where I don't think there's a debate between anyone here. The needy must be helped, but yes, as Congressman Sallai has mentioned. It wasn't a very good example of someone having an accident and stopping. I agree, we have to stop, we have to help. But here's how the dog is buried when we stop, sometimes we don't. There's Boko Haram, Ditto's doing the same thing, now they're sister organizations with the Islamic State. Why does the slaughter of Christians not hurt us there? It doesn't even occur to us to send humanitarian aid or soldiers there. I would add we wouldn't support sending soldiers there. Yes, I know that there are currently Hungarian soldiers in several countries in Africa, either as trainers or otherwise, but somehow there is a lack of balance and disproportionateness. When we reject this action, we do not reject it because, I do not know, we would like the Islamic State, or we would agree with the insanity that they do every day, every minute: the sooner it ceases and is destroyed, the better. But bearing responsibility for the fate of the Hungarian people, bearing responsibility for the fate of our soldiers, we have no business there. And we are not going to go any further in this case or by solving this case, but we are putting Hungary and Hungarian citizens at great risk. Once again, when everyone pushes a button, just think that we shouldn't be right, God forbid anything happens, but János Hajdú, Director-General of the Counter-Terrorism Centre, at a closed meeting of the National Security Committee, I wouldn't say that he reassured the members of the committee. He said very diplomatically and very politely that the threat of terror would not be reduced, and then everyone should understand it well. If some lunatic takes on something we don't want to fight, then you'll take responsibility and say what a great decision it was? I don't think so. Then everyone's gonna be sneaking around, but it's terrible. So what's the next step? Will we increase the number of our soldiers? It's oil on the fire. You really need to see that the United States of America, with your capacity, with your forces, or even with your forces in the region, if you wanted to, is now clearly on a military scale, but you could close the question in no time. But somehow he doesn't do that, but he wants to involve as many countries, as many nations as possible, to spread responsibility, sacrifice, costs. We wouldn't have to assist you to do that. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches. Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2015-03-31-136	I now give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Németh in a normal time frame.
u2015-03-31-137	Mr President, I will not take advantage of the time frame, but here are some questions or comments on my speech. First of all, I would like to ask my fellow Members that we do not even make public state leadership issues in plenary, not only in bilateral discussions. Secondly, I would like to thank you for the arguments, considerations and considerations that have been made here in the last three hours. I find this common thinking particularly exciting and interesting, even if I do not have the feeling that we are going from one to two, and that is ultimately the purpose of these discussions or debates. Which, apparently, continues to be my general impression on the opposition colleagues' voices - I apologise - that the anti-Fideszism on the part of the United States and the Socialist Party is rather specific to obscure their vision, their thinking, and that we know in substance about this new global challenge, which this barbarism and terrorism represents for the world, to engage in dialogue. So I know that it is not easy to put the views of the United States in parentheses in this debate, but I think that this would be the task of making a substantive judgment. That is what I would like to propose to my fellow opposition Members. This is my colleague Lajos Kósa, my friend, who has already said that we too could have a very exciting debate about the United States, that we also agree that the Guantánamo camp was unacceptable, and that is what we have said, and that we have said it when the debates on this have reached the top of the international public and the United States, but this is not the case. So we should talk about Iraq, the Islamic State, this new type of global problem, what it is that we see as being able to tackle this challenge. The lives of soldiers: yes, the lives of soldiers are of the same value as all human lives. I totally agree with that. At the same time, let us not forget that today in Hungary the threshold for expeditions is set at a thousand people. We do not reach this threshold at the moment, but it is moving somewhere around 700, if I am not mistaken, Minister, the number of our soldiers on the expedition. In order to maintain the functionality of the Hungarian Defence Forces, it is essential to gain experience that can only be obtained in these conflicts. Let us not forget this aspect, and let us not forget that these people are applying for this task, and they may not only apply for money. Let us not underestimate these people who may have sacrificed their lives. Indeed, they will sacrifice their lives, if necessary, but for their vocation, not for their double salary. I think that these soldiers deserve so much from the Hungarian Parliament that we do not simplify their participation in their expedition missions on a simple bread issue. Security policy consistency, obligation to evaluate and interest: I would like to say in this connection, fellow Members, that Hungary's security policy is a value-driven point. And the decisions of this alliance, of which we are members, are value-driven, the decisions of NATO are the same as those of the European Union. [[16.50]] Hungary has never been found easy in these value-driven decisions in the last 25 years, including socialist governance. There, of course, I could make some cuts, but I've included them. To the victims, mentioned by Lajos Kósa, to whom we had to bend down, we were always the first to bend down, whether Afghanistan, Iraq or Central Africa. Hungary has raised the issue of Central Africa in recent years to go to Mali in a Visegrád framework. After all, this mission did not take place because this mission did not become a reality, but it was not up to us. We have expressed our willingness. But I could mention Cyprus, Kosovo or Bosnia. When didn't we bend over? When? I think that this consistency of Hungary is one of the most serious values of Hungarian security policy, and we can be very proud of it. To make this consistency inconsistent is nonsense. Let us not question this consistency, which is also reflected in this current decision. Did the United States create the chaos in the Middle East, the wider Middle East? I'd say that's part of it. However, let us not forget that, in part, the international community, the UN Security Council or, where appropriate, the Russian vetoes have also contributed to the current situation. The international community would have been freed from Assad if Russia had not crossed it in the UN Security Council. Let's not discuss whether it was right, I just want to say that burdening the situation in the wider Middle East on the United States alone is only partial truth. He's right, but it's part of the truth. Would the United States be able to handle this situation alone? No. He wouldn't be able to handle this alone. If he could handle it, he'd handle it alone. He calls allies because he is not able to handle the military component alone, and it is not necessarily just the military component, but rather the legitimacy in the broader sense that is essential to the success of the decision. And in this sense, it is not just a beauty flora and a patch, it is an international legitimacy essential to the success of the mission. So I can clearly tell you that you wouldn't be able to. It's none of our business. That's not true! For a genocide in Hungary after the Holocaust, the XX. After our centuries of history, you can't say we had nothing to do with it. There's no legal pressure. It's true, there's no legal pressure. That's why we're arguing about it here in Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-31-138	I now give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek in a normal time frame.
u2015-03-31-139	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I promise I'll be quick. I would just like to respond in a few words to my colleague Zsolt Németh. First of all, because I felt partly addressed by saying that opposition representatives' opposition to the United States influence our opinion. I would like to draw attention to what we have already done - and I also liked to mention Guantánamo - and I would like to point out that here we have drawn attention to the law of cause and effect, how one can be a substitute for the other and how it gives birth to it. He returned to this responsibility later in his speech when he said that the United States was partly responsible for this. Let's just say that this part of responsibility is practically going back to 2001. After the American attack in Afghanistan in the autumn of 2001, the US tried to prove that Iraq was a potential threat. And we can look at the foundations of all this by Bush, without the authority of the United Nations Security Council, has begun Operation. If you say that it is international legitimacy, if you use this term and reason with it, then let's face it, if it were now the mandate of the UN Security Council, then this debate would probably not have to be conducted. That's why we're missing the international legitimacy of this whole operation, because we don't have it. If you were absolutely right, we would have an obligation to do so and we would not have to debate it in Parliament. So that's why. You say that we will never govern. I haven't steered yet, so I don't know how much pressure the government is under, and I don't know how much pressure the faction has on its members. There is obviously a political pressure here that you must be able to consider, because you have been empowered by Hungarian society to govern. We don't feel this pressure. We are completely objectively trying to consider what it brings, what it loses, what value we communicate with it, and how we use our decision to serve more important human value. I completely agree with you, and I'm glad we agree on that. My MSZP fellow Member has also spoken here in Parliament about the selfless commitment of Hungarian soldiers. I am aware that, not for financial reasons, but voluntarily, many of them have individual motivations to go here. But that's why they don't have to make the decision. To decide where to risk their lives, it is not for voluntary soldiers to decide, but for politicians to decide where to send them to risk them. That's why we have this responsibility here, and that's why it's not an argument that they volunteer for it. The responsibility lies with Parliament, which makes this decision, and we are talking to my fellow opposition Members about making this responsible decision here, whether we can take it, and whether we believe that it is acceptable for Hungarian society. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-03-31-140	I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kósa for a two-minute comment.
u2015-03-31-141	Mr. President. Dear House, Some of the MEPs' speeches show that they are not aware of the fundamental facts. This international military action was organised by the United States at the request of the Iraqi legitimate government. The Iraqi Government has turned to the UN, and the Russian position in the UN Security Council has not allowed this military mission to be a UN mission, so the legitimate Iraqi Government has asked the United States for international assistance and has requested this 60 plus 2 countries international assistance programme. In this sense, when you vote 'no', you reject the request for assistance from the Iraqi government who wants to fight against the Islamic State. You are wrong to say that you have to argue here in Parliament because this comes from some kind of commitment. That's not true. In cases where the United Nations or NATO participates in a legally delegated mission, the Hungarian Parliament does not need a parliamentary decision on the basis of our international treaties. This is precisely because the Hungarian Parliament must decide, with full authority, whether or not to participate in this. There is no obligation, there is an invitation. He came from the Iraqi Government to the UN, because of the position of the Russians, the UN Security Council was unable to make a decision to make the mission a UN mission, but with an appreciation of the situation, the governments of a significant part of the European governments, the British, the Dutch, the US, Canada, Australia and the Middle East Arab countries declared that these governments believed that it was legitimate in this sense. And one more thing. The U.S. military command's subordinate colonel in international relations will never, by the way, submit a signature letter or a letter of authority stating on whose behalf he speaks. So those who say that they did not come on behalf of the United States of America do not know the standards of international relations. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-03-31-142	I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed. I ask Minister if he wishes to comment as rapporteur. [[On Csaba Hende's mark:]] Later? As a rapporteur, you have the opportunity, and then we move on to the other item on the agenda. [[Csaba Hende: Before the vote.]] I see. All right, thank you. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. [[On Csaba Hende's mark:]] All right. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. [[Break: 17.00-17.04President: Tamás SneiderCreater: József Móring Attila]]
u2015-03-31-143	Dear Parliament, We will continue our agenda. The 2012 CCV on the status of military fighters follows. a general debate on the amendment of law and the amendment of certain related laws until closure. The submission was made in T/4030. ) can be found on the Parliament's IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Csaba Hende, Minister for Defence, the author of the item on the agenda.
u2015-03-31-144	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In 2010, the new government undertook to renew Hungary. The renewal of the entire system of state, public sector and defence is an extremely important part of this. This work cannot be complete and can not be successful if the subsystems operating the Hungarian state are not fully thought out and their operation is not aligned. In 2010, we found that, as in all areas of state life, there are extremely serious systemic disturbances in the field of defence, which significantly hinder the Hungarian Defence Agency from fulfilling its mission. The mission of the Hungarian Defence Forces is primarily to defend the country with arms and to carry out the tasks arising out of our international obligations. This mission cannot be accomplished without dedicated, competent, experienced soldiers. Those who undertake this service should have no livelihood problems. Not in terms of rent, not in terms of housing, not in terms of old age. This is, on the one hand, a moral duty, and on the other hand, the fundamental interest and condition of fulfilling the mission is that the best, the most talented, the most committed serve in the defence. People who are constantly training themselves and who not only maintain and expand the skills and abilities needed for their profession. The aim of the military career is therefore to appreciate the soldiers serving our country with weapons, to provide them with peaceful living conditions and a decent living at a significantly higher standard of living than at present, and to operate a system of advance, which is at the same time predictable and predictable, in line with the interests of the service. Dear Parliament, We started the work from the ground up, and we have been going through it very consistently in recent years. It led us to put things in place. The system of advancement is determined by performance and merit. We create a solid system capable of simultaneously enforcing the service interests and providing for the service soldier. At the same time, it is flexible enough to deal fairly with the unexpected problems raised by life. Therefore, the current amendment of the law and the concept of a new military career on which it is based have been preceded by extensive, multi-Circumstantial internal consultation and consultation with interest representatives, covering all the forces and military organizations of the Hungarian Defence Forces. The bill before us is based on important precedents. In 2011, as part of the government's staff strategy, we developed the human strategy of the Hungarian Defence Forces. The 2012 CCV on the status of soldiers. Act as a new Act of Service entered into force on 1 July 2013. Several elements of the planned public service career have already been incorporated into the renewed regulation. Such was the public service benchmarking system based on a single framework and including military features, the basic regulation of the interoperability regime in other areas of the public service, the renewed system of advancement, as well as the simultaneous conversion of military officer training and training, the establishment of the Ludovika Battalion and the Assistant Academy. Once again, we are taking a big step towards building the system. At the same time, this will be a step that will significantly improve the financial situation of our countrymen. [[17.10]] Dear Parliament, The public service career is based on three pillars: first, the introduction of a new system of promotional and closely linked salaries, secondly, the new system of public housing support and, thirdly, the establishment of a new public service insurance system. Of the three main pillars of the military career adopted by the government, the bill we are discussing now contains the first and most important pillar, the new system of promotion and salary including public service interoperability. Further steps are needed to build the second and third pillars. Our plans are to introduce a new, highly equitable housing support system and a completely novel public service insurance system for extraordinary events in the course of life. Dear Parliament, Our soldiers provide a special public service, the military course is part of the public service career, but their mission is far beyond the commitment of the other public services. Our soldiers are sworn to defend the country at the cost of their lives and to renounce some of their civil rights in the interest of service. The military career and the closely matched salary system must recognise this extraordinary public service, which cannot be compared to anyone else, for both professional and contract soldiers. Our aim is to create a system of planned advancement based on performance, knowledge and experience, which, on the one hand, inspires continuous professional development and, on the other hand, expresses the appreciation of soldiers protecting our country by the Hungarian nation. After the change of law, the career becomes a two-way street. Not only is the possibility of a higher position in your career, but also the possibility of a lateral career as a new element. A lateral career provides development opportunities by obtaining grades at the same or the same level and recognises accumulated knowledge and experience. Progress on both career paths, i.e. horizontal and vertical, requires adequate performance, service time, training and examination requirements. From now on, regular testing is the core of the military career. The principle is that inadequate performance, e.g. failure to pass tests linked to a lateral career, will result in the termination of service and that the specific physical, psychological and health requirements of the military service should be continuously met. Dear Parliament, It goes without saying that, since we are raising more serious expectations of our soldiers than ever before, they must also be worthy of their financial recognition. The new salary and allowance system is closely linked to the system of advancement, which is central to the development of a new military career. The aim of the regulation is to create a performance-, knowledge- and experience-based, predictable system of advancement, which guarantees the appreciation of soldiers by creating a higher standard of living, while at the same time increasing the sustainability of the Hungarian Defence Agency. The basic purpose of the salary system is to support a long career career span of up to 40 years and to encourage those with 10-15 years of service to stay on the track. The new salary system will ensure a continuous increase in salary for all military personnel throughout the military track. Continuous salary increases are based on the recognition of service time, higher positions and progress on the lateral career path. Both career paths are rewarded with rising attitudes, but still by continuing to encourage higher positions. The salary, which also recognises the specificities of the military service, will consist of three components: basic salary, defence service fee and allowances. The principal part of the salary shall be basic salary. The basic salary shall be determined by the level, value of the post, the responsibilities involved and the role of the post in the organisational hierarchy. The basic salary has been set - and we ask that Parliament decide to do so - so that an experienced Petty Officer may, if appropriate, reach or even exceed the salary of an officer at the beginning of his career. The importance of the service of the new element and the staff of the Petty Officers is expressed by the fact that the recognition of executive and sub-commander duties is also reflected in the salary. It is worth mentioning four aspects of the salary recognition for military service periods. First of all, it is determined by actual service time, second, from the beginning of military service, thirdly, its scale is constantly rising, and finally, fourthly, much higher than the additional service hours under the current system. Dear Parliament, By 2010, the military-run bonus system had grown into an inaccessible jungle or sprawled itself apart. Instead of renewing the system and raising salaries, the former governments - because last time the first Orbán government made a significant salary increase in the army, and now during the third Orbán government, another huge step follows, unfortunately, during the period 2002-2010, we could not improve the salary situation of the soldiers - as there was a lot of tension in these years, trying to keep soldiers on the track with various allowances, running around the fire scene with half a bucket of water, and always pouring a little bit where the flames hit the highest. Now, this has created a great confusion, a tangled, opaque system, and, indeed, countless tensions and unworthy situations today. One of the important objectives of this transformation is, therefore, that in the future military service will be recognised primarily as basic salary and not as a replacement allowance. Accordingly, a total of 5 out of the previous 30, exactly 32 allowances remain. These are five types of allowances linked to increased demand, greater than average risk, specific preparedness, extreme risk-taking and foreign language use based on our international engagements. In addition, the so-called labour market bonus should be highlighted separately in the system of allowances. This is intended to complement the salaries of certain professionals with specific and difficult skills, skills and experience in order to prevent career abandonment and, where appropriate, loss of skills resulting from labour-market withdrawal effects. The new law also transforms the system of benefits linked to the contract of contract soldiers. Unwarranted differences between the benefits of professional and contract soldiers have now been eliminated. As a result of the conversion, after a transitional period, the contract officer and officer staff may be entitled to a severance allowance and a Jubilee bonus equal to that of the professional staff, while crew members may be entitled to an extension fee, reintegration allowance triggering decommissioning aid and an additional allowance for the voluntary reserve service. [[17.20]] In the course of the conversion, it is essential that no contract officer, Petty Officer or crew soldier loses his service until the new regulation and the associated decommissioning allowance cannot be altered. This is guaranteed by transitional rules. According to the bill, the regulation of the organisation of service time is also amended at the same time as the introduction of a new career and salary system. The more flexible rules give the leaders of military organisations the opportunity to better employ their personnel. In the new system, the resulting over-service may be compensated by free-time after a transitional period. Ladies and gentlemen, The introduction of a new military career entails a large-scale salary increase. The salary of professional and contract soldiers will increase by 30 per cent on average from 1 July 2015 and the salary increase will therefore be differentiated. On average, there is a 26-percent increase in crews, with an average increase of 38 per cent, and an average increase of 15 per cent in officers' salaries. Overall, we have distributed 30% increase in wages in the new system among the aforementioned groups, together with spending all the forints on salaries in the current system on salaries in the future, so it is clear that 30 percent more money will be spent on soldiers, soldiers of different positions and stock categories, of course not to the same extent. Well, this year's 30 percent salary increase will be followed by an average increase of 5-5 percent over the next four years. Thus, by 1 January 2019, the salary of the honvéds will increase by an average of 50 percent compared to today's state of affairs. Ladies and gentlemen, Thanks to the work of the five years behind us and the work of the Hungarian people, Hungary is able, in an economic sense, to carry out another large-scale salary increase for the soldiers after the first Orbán government's salary increase in 2002, a salary increase that places the voters of the military profession and those who are committed to following it throughout their lives in decent conditions, and thus also significantly strengthens the protection of the country. Ladies and gentlemen, For this reason, I ask that in the debate ahead, we debate and finally vote in such a way that in the long term we can give new, much better opportunities for the Hungarian Defence Forces to complete their mission. I would therefore ask you to discuss and accept the bill on the House's table. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-31-145	Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the first round, speeches by the lead speaker will take place. I give the floor to Lajos Kósa, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-03-31-146	Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Minister, It is a long-awaited law that this House is discussing. However, I would also like to draw Members' attention in a broader context to the fact that this is not a specific measure, but when the Orbán government was established in 2010, it agreed that if it overcomes the economic and budgetary crisis caused by the eight-year activity of the previous socialist government, in which Hungary actually faced a situation similar to the economic and budgetary situation of Greece, then if, with a joint effort, we can go beyond this immeasurable crisis, it will in any case think of a state model in which public employees are now using this concept, not in a legal sense, but in a broader sense, so that those who ultimately receive their payment from the State, the large employment groups, can assume the service of the public good directly or indirectly by strengthening their career model. Fortunately, the efforts of the last five years have resulted in us not simply getting through the economic crisis, but becoming one of the best performing countries in the region. If we look at European economic data, the growth of Hungarian GDP is the second-third best, unemployment is constantly falling, employment is increasing, the budget is able to meet the Maastricht criteria permanently, to the extent that everyone recognises that the economic policy formulated by the Orbán government has resulted in Hungary performing in an exemplary economic sense, from the very critical London analytics houses, to Brussels and the United States. And after, of course, we took it very seriously in 2010, that the wider state employees could undertake public service through a career model, so in the various large employment groups, as the budget is at stake, we started to build career models for the first time in the civil servants' office, in the government staff, among educators, between the police, the employees of armed organisations, and now we're in the military: we're introducing the career model among soldiers, which, as in the case of other career models, has its main motives, i.e. its main characteristics are as follows. Firstly, a rather significant wage adjustment is being made. In this case, the average wage increase is 30 percent, and here it does not stop, as at the time when the Medgyessy government stood up, they quickly ran into the Treasury, which was money, distributed once, and then nothing happened, but there is a model where, after a one-time, average 30 percent wage increase, the stock can calculate for many years how its salary will increase stablely in terms of good performance, which, overall, will reach 50 percent by the end of the decade. In this context, the other very important aspect was that the payment chaos that had been created in the past for all employment groups, which was the most diverse allowance, commission, such bonus, such a bonus - because the eight-year governance of the socialists was characterised by the fact that they had always allowed a little bit where the shoes were tightest, and that was not built into income in a stable way, but tried to implement it in the form of such allowances. This was also absurd when, for example, teachers were not raised for wages, but they were told that cash-in ATM costs could be claimed from the Treasury, but they did not add that only if they were otherwise able to demonstrate the size of this cost at documentary level. This means that all the ATM costs should have been verified from the bank, and otherwise it will cause more bank operating costs, which the bank will make him pay than the budget has otherwise offered him, so that no one can live with it. This was just a small example of the fact that the system of commissions, wage allowances, supplements and such multipliers was only intended to cover up the fact that there was little money in relation to the poor performance of the economy. We wanted to simplify and make this jungle transparent in any case, so that the subjects of the career model, the soldiers, can follow it relatively well, and they can even predict that yes, if I serve 10-15-20 years, then what opportunities I have, where I go. It is very important that, in the meantime, we have also created the interoperability of this system. This was very important in terms of the fact that when we think about the careers of the people who serve the state and the community of Hungarians as a whole, if there is a change in their job opportunities and abilities, they should still not fall out of this system, but we should find the opportunities from the police to the firefighters to the soldiers, where they can otherwise do useful and important work for the public. [[17 .30]] This system, which we are discussing here, also clearly fulfils this second condition. In general, the third condition was that not only did we say that wages should, of course, be increased, but we added that, since we want to serve the cause of the common good, it is an elementary duty for all governments to ask for and to be accountable for performance. Not in single cases, but in continuous cases, create the conditions for feedback, as the stock is also important - from soldiers down, up, everyone - to see where they are, where they can get, what levels they need to meet in advance. It is not ingenious that every now and then a State Secretary comes, the state administration still mentions the performance evaluation system, known as the Revenge of Szetey, which was really not good for anything, besides the fact that the government had to employ extra workers, merely for administration, because it did not allow real performance, of course. This is also about a system for soldiers, which makes it clear to soldiers not only what they need to do next year, but also 10 years from now, to calculate what levels of performance the community expects of them. So this proposal also fulfils the third condition, namely that we are not only raising salaries, but also asking these people for performance. The fourth, which is at least as important, is that this system contains the right incentives for... - we have sought to do so in the design of each such system, even if, if, if, in the case of lesser or greater resistance, see the production of a portfolio for teachers, even though the complicated word was intended to express that everyone had to put some kind of professional plan on the table for themselves. So here with the soldiers, we have also sought to introduce an incentive system that actually leads soldiers to better and better personal performance. I think that this system has come together, and I believe that the amendment of the law on the status of soldiers in this sense is a round whole, and I am very pleased that the promise that we made in 2010 can be fulfilled. I would add that this is not our merit, but the merit of the Hungarian people, because the community of Hungarian people created the financial cover for this. Under the leadership of the government and with the support of the governing parties, but the joint effort of the Hungarian people made it possible. I add that in this sense it is also normal, because the joint effort of the Hungarian people makes it possible to improve the working conditions of the people working for the public in general, so that they can serve the community better. So it's not a complimentary gift in itself, it's a coherent and thought-out system. I would like to highlight some elements of the proposal. To be honest with you, I think it is extremely important that this regulation gives rise to a separate possibility for soldiers serving in the rank of Petty Officer and Vice-Commander. The current government has always stressed that in the operation of a system, such as the army, the subunit leaders who actually determine performance to a significant extent in the particular organization should be properly encouraged. It's always been a little ungrateful for the former government to handle this whole petty officer issue, because they don't always say that the generals are just known by the defense authorities, but the petty officers are far less. I find it unheard of that this support for the performance of the sub-commander's duties is important. In fact, frankly, I do not find it absurd at all that an experienced and well-performing Petty Officer makes more money than a young, possibly a superior, senior officer. This is extremely important for the military to do well. On this amendment, I would like to say one more thing, namely that I remember the parliamentary debate where, at the end of 2002, Ferenc Juhász, Minister of Defence at the time, stated that the first Orbán government had completely neglected the fulfilment of NATO appropriations in the military budget for GDP, and that, in fact, the socialist governments would remedy it. They didn't remedy it, and they could only do a little cosmetic work, perhaps we can remember, hundreds of budget tricks you don't need to know, said the socialist prime minister of the time in the famous autumn speech, in the defense budget that meant that the pension of retired soldiers from the army was also recorded as a defence expense, thus cosmeticsating the already deteriorating financial data. So, if you really look at raw data, then the reduction in military expenditure in proportion to GDP was even more brutal than what the government has shown in various budgetary statutory reports. At the time, we said that the country's ability to defend itself would certainly not be significantly affected by the fiscal rate of retirement or pensioners' pensions. I would therefore like to say consistently that, of course, we consider it very important how much soldiers earn, that there is a career model, but we do not think that we have done the homework that the Hungarian government has undertaken at the recent NATO political conference, namely that Hungary must, of course, increase its spending on defence. By the way, it is the career model and the associated wage costs, by the way, increase. I would just like to say consistently that this alone does not mean that this task has been carried out. It contributes somewhat, but it is quite certain that it is only a necessary condition for wage planning to strengthen the country's defence capabilities, but it is in no way sufficient, and it certainly does not mean that we can check our commitment to increase military expenditure in proportion to GDP by 2019. We also see in the current budget that military spending is rising, and I hope that it will continue to increase, but this does not mean that there is no need to take into account the development of military assets and other improvements in military capabilities, which obviously entails budget expenditure. Dear House, I ask you to support this proposal. I would ask you to support the introduction of a career model for soldiers, a 30% increase in average earnings and then a 5% increase per year, and this promise can be fulfilled for soldiers as well. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-31-147	I now give the floor to Márta Demeter, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2015-03-31-148	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, quite rightly, concluded his speech by very much hoping that a meaningful and forward-looking debate would be possible, since it is important for all of us and for all of us, because we are here to create a law that is actually long-term and can actually provide adequate guarantees, an opportunity to move forward and a proper appreciation to the Hungarian Defence Forces. I am very sorry that Lajos Kósa was the first to have otherwise failed to comply with the Minister's request, at least in terms of the first quarter of his speech and the last quarter of his speech. So I would not even like to respond to these things that you mentioned, because the aim would be to actually create a law that can ensure proper respect and long-term, proper operation for the army, because I am sure that we agree that the Hungarian Defence Forces itself have the greatest power, the greatest value and the highest guarantee of its effective functioning. [[17.40]] So it is the soldiers and the military workers who are excellent at serving the country, and those who choose this profession as their profession, to do so, to serve the country and protect it. Basically, the aim is to make progress in the career model, since we have been hearing about this concept for years, it is something to be supported. In the amendment of last year's Law on the Status of Patriots, we missed very much the fact that there were no specific elements on the career. In this proposal, however, we can see much more concrete ones. However, allow me to make criticism of the proposal, although I would say that I would, of course, be the one who would be happiest if we could not make criticism of it, but I do so in the hope that we will, of course, come up with proposals to amend the criticisms that have been formulated. The goal would also be for us to support this law. In the hope of this, we will present our amendments and, of course, we will ask for their support, and this is how we will be able to support this amendment. Firstly, I would like to highlight the increase in salaries. We have talked about this many times, it has been extremely topical, because since 2008 the salary base has actually been frozen, and the changes that have taken place since then have clearly made the existential conditions of the stock much more difficult. It's about time we got this raise. If an average of 30 percent can be achieved, then it will be basically a good result. We have already mentioned in the debate on the Finance Act that we have missed the fact that it is not in the Hungarian Defence Office's budget line, or at least in the Prime Minister's Office chapter it is not on a separate line. [[Csaba Hende: Next year!]] The separate HUF 44 billion, of which roughly HUF 11-12 billion, I understand, concerns the professional staff of the Hungarian Defence Office. Nevertheless, we are confident that this salary increase will be achieved. In view of next budget year, I suspect that this kind of salary increase will be incorporated into the Hungarian Defence budget by 2016. [[Csaba Hende:]] I would like to refer back to Mr Kósa's speech at one point, and I would like to ask that there really be no trickery with the numbers. So when we talk about how the Hungarian Defense budget is growing, the financial appreciation of the stock is a fundamental task for the government, for all of us, of course. So no tricks about it. [[Csaba Hende: No!]] When we look forward to and draw attention to the need to increase the Hungarian Defence budget, we clearly do not mean tricks, but that the effectiveness of the basic task, the resources intended for it, must be increased. So stipend development is a very welcome thing. I am missing the proposal, and we will put forward an amendment to this proposal, that, unlike the recently discussed Hst., there is no legal guarantee of the level of salary development for the professional staff of law enforcement agencies, so what is the minimum amount that must be achieved in certain posts of service, in the case of officer and minor staff. We've seen that in Hst. there are wordings that can't be less than 25 percent, and I could tell you that. So we do not see such a guarantee in the law. Otherwise, we believe that it is absolutely necessary to remedy this. It is also a fact, and I would also like to point out as a positive point that the proposal completely breaks up with the former up-or-out principle. We've talked about this a lot. Otherwise, this is a reasonable decision for a small, professional force. This, in our view, is one of the most important amendments to the proposal: it removes the restriction that the waiting period for the rank can be extended up to two times. At the same time, as the Minister said, the proposal introduces a system of graduation exams which can ensure a certain degree of progress within the post, so that, if they are fulfilled, the amount of the defence service fee can increase. So I think it's basically a positive. In the future, there was talk of the possibility of redemption of over-service. So far, this has been redeemed in money, and it will be available in free time in the future. Minister mentioned a transitional period. The question is, how long will this transitional period be, and what opportunities will be given to the stock, for example, if the stock can decide at least in the transitional period that it will be exchanged in cash [[Csaba Hende: Yes.]] Or free time. If so, it is worth including this in detail in the law. The Hjt. in accordance with the current text, the duty period shall be 8 hours per day in general service order. This clause is now abandoned by the proposal and allows for a time-frame of service in the case of a general service order. The daily service period shall not exceed 12 hours in this case. Basically, we value this article as a tightening up. It gives the employer all the flexibility in the planning of the service. [[Csaba Hende: That's right.]] The question is how much of the stock will otherwise be used. Now I don't mention such little things as certain renamings, which, by the way, I really don't know what the significance is. This is the case for the CCNSZ stock, the Secret Service allowance, the reintegration allowance instead of decommissioning aid; these are only minor issues in the proposal. However, I would also like to highlight a number of important criteria and, above all, criticism. The stability of a professional career is being destroyed by the fact that the law on the status of the military has also included the arbitrary element that the minister can move the colonel and general leaders at any time. The strange thing about this was that, apart from the fact that the only reason this bill justifies it is that the same regulation is also in Hst. Furthermore, the proposal provides for the possibility of specialising against senior managers that the Minister may, in a regulation, set a higher multiplier than the law for those in senior management positions. In addition, and this is certainly a question to the Minister, the law defines the defence salary base according to the fact that it will be a defence salary fund laid down in the Act on the Annual Central Budget, which must not be lower than the previous year's defence salary. The question is what this is made up of, how it is determined. It is clear that such a salary base will now be established as early as July 2015, and that the next year will not be lower than that, this is very commendable, but what will be the extent of that will depend on. What we are missing to this day in an extraordinary way, and not only us, but it is clear that the Hungarian Defence Staff, the Defence Staff, are also missing it, rightfully, that while the professional staff is, quite rightly, receiving salary development, the civil servants' salary base is calculated from this point of view as two in the status of civil servants, there is no presentation, no future promise. So there is no promise, and this should also be an advanced government thinking, but mostly in action, because the civil servant's salary has been frozen for a very long time. This wage development, which is now being implemented, does not affect those in the status of civil servants, thus creating tension in the stock. But what's more serious is that they're struggling with livelihoods. [[17.50]] We know very well that we are talking a lot about our soldiers, and all our appreciation for their work, but I would like to emphasise the defence workers, who also have all the credit for their work, and they should also be given the proper respect. By the way, rationalising the system of allowances is, in my opinion, a positive one. There's really been a lot of whittling in this. I think that if a rationalisation can be carried out across governments, then it is, of course, welcome. Which I would like to express a tougher criticism... - because in these matters, which I have mentioned, I very much hope that the government will be ready to receive, and that the wallet will be ready for our amendments. However, in which we have argued several times and there has not been much receptionism, I must mention it, however, because the proposal to amend the law on the status of the military before us is still not remedying two very important things. The fact that trade unions have had their rights cut, that trade union leaders have been served, that they have made it incredibly difficult to keep their members, that the law will not remedy this mistake in any way, will continue to maintain it. And the question of service pension: we talked about it a lot. I see that to this day, the government still has no remorse for the fact that people who have served their lives, who have been forced to retire without their own faults, have deprived me of an existing right. He robbed them of their retirement status. This cannot happen in a rule of law. They are the ones who have been subjected to a 16 per cent deduction of their converted service obligations, equal to the amount of personal income tax at the time, and have thus been charged, in my opinion, still forced, by the reserve system. So this kind of disenfranchisation cannot be accepted in any way, and this is outrageous under all circumstances. They didn't even think about what future solutions could be. Because here, Minister, you mentioned an insurance system, I don't know what condition it is, but I doubt that, by the way, as far as we know about it, you could give me an appreciation which, by the way, should be a cornerstone of the course of life; so the military way of life and, by the way, the course of law enforcement should be a cornerstone in any way. I don't know if you've thought, for example, that the active stock... - because those who were retired in the service have been forced to the extreme into a situation which is extremely humiliating, and I don't think anyone ever thought they would be in that position; what does the active stock say about that, and what effect this has had on the active stock, that otherwise, with one snap, people can be deprived of their acquired rights, people who are willing to risk their lives for their country at any time. Here I wanted to refer, for a sentence, to the fluctuations of the file and to those who, by the way, very many leave the file. It also occurred to me about pilots. So, turning back here: very good stipend development, necessary, but this is the only foot of appreciation. We still need a perspective to estimate, we need proper working conditions, we need appropriate individual equipment, we also need to ensure that it can function properly. And I'm going to continue from here. Thank you.
u2015-03-31-149	I now give the floor to Matthias Firtl, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2015-03-31-150	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Parliament, The status of staff employed by the State, the reform of its employment system and the reform of the Government's staff strategy and the State Reform Programme. The primary aim of this reform is to establish the personal conditions for effective public task implementation and to address the situation of law enforcement, administrative and defence personnel by drawing up long-term and predictable careers. This bill is intended to settle the service relationship of the professional staff of the Hungarian Defence Office. The Christian Democratic People's Party welcomes the bill tabled by the Minister of Defence, which is intended to remedy the problems that have been mentioned so many times before. A new system of promotions and salaries is introduced by the current act of service. The Christian Democratic People's Party considers it important to settle the wage of military personnel, which has been going on for many years, and this solution is now being presented by the Minister. The new salary system of the bill outlines a monetary recognition for the future, which represents a significant increase in salaries for members of the professional staff, thereby ensuring them a peaceful and secure livelihood. The purpose of establishing a new salary system is to recognise performance, knowledge and service performance at the same time. Accordingly, the salary will consist of basic salary, service fee and allowances. In addition, instead of the current bonus scheme, it will be possible only to pay the following allowances: an allowance for greater than average risk, a premium for increased use, an allowance for recognition of foreign language skills, an allowance for the labour market, a territorial bonus, a premium for risk taking or an allowance for recognition of secret service activities. In addition, performance benefits may be paid to military personnel on the basis of outstanding performance or after additional tasks have been completed. All members of the professional staff will have an average salary increase of 30 per cent and, as has been said, will enter into force from 1 July 2015. This year's salary increase will be followed by an average increase of 5-5 percent compared to the current level in the coming years. Thus, by 1 January 2019, the salary of the Hungarians will increase by an average of 50 percent compared to the current one. The second outstanding element of the bill is the renewal of military careers. The introduction of a new military career: not only is it possible to move to a higher position, but also the possibility of a lateral career. A lateral career, either in the same or in the same position, provides the members of the stock with a certain degree of development, thus recognising the value of the knowledge and experience acquired. The proposal introduces a system of graduation examinations designed to maintain motivation and further increase the knowledge of the staff member. With the completion of the degree exam, the soldier becomes entitled to a higher amount of security service fees. During the development of the new military career and salary system, we can clearly see that a system of performance, knowledge and experience has been developed to ensure a competitive income for Hungarian soldiers and ensure their progress in all directions. Dear Minister, The Christian Democratic People's Party thanks this bill, and we also warmly recommend the adoption of the law to my fellow Members. We hope that this bill will really create the opportunity for those serving in the Hungarian Defence Office to give them a new era within the Hungarian Defence Office with the wage increases they are now voting for during their future career. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-31-151	I now give the floor to Adam Mirkóczki, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-03-31-152	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, I am also trying to sum up our position briefly and not necessarily take advantage of the time frame. What I would like to emphasise first of all: we are pleased with the proposal, it is certainly forward-looking, it is putting a lot of problems ahead of time, it is closing a lot of loopholes that have been there before, and the practice has shown that it has caused a lot of problems. [[18.00]] In addition to the fact that it is clear that we could have a long discussion about what is great or what is progressing points are, I would like to leave this out, but I would stress that we really want to make constructive criticisms, which, by the way, you can all have access to in the form of an amendment. We are confident that, overall, as the Minister has said, we will be able to collect a proposal after the various motions, which, if appropriate, may be consensual. I would briefly describe the points with which we have a problem at first or second reading and which we do not necessarily see in practice; perhaps it would be the original aim, but we would like to make some clarification and some critical comments. The first one is directly related to the rules of military ethics. We completely interpret this as, where appropriate - and now not assuming evil, but considering that life is always producing strange things, and unfortunately there is a lot of experience in it - we see it as a rubber rule now in the proposal, a system too wide, which, if I say it once again, does not assume the wrong, but can also cause abuse. Therefore, we have this one-bit part, the rules of the, the Hungarian ethics itself, and the two of them. We recommend that you leave here. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Then there was talk of serving time, so that it could be redeemed in money. Yes, as discussed a few days or a week ago with professionals and police colleagues, there was a compromise proposal that there was transitional regulation until 2018. I've seen from a previous reaction by the Minister that it will be similar here. This is certainly important for us to have a similar procedure as in the case of the police. Then there's the 6th. §, the passage where they cannot hold a certain position within the military, and then there is a way, is possible from outside the military. We would bring it in here - which may just be careless, and I do not assume that this was deliberately omitted - so that researchers and workers from the National University of Public Service would benefit from filling these posts. We think that this would be a good substitute for this deficiency. We think it is not intentional - reading the whole proposal - but perhaps rather careless, because it is indeed a big proposal, and not all the details can be written in the first round. We are definitely proposing this, confident that both the parties of government and the Minister will see the importance of this. Then, at the next stage, where the proposal sets a probationary period, we would make an amendment that anyone who transcends from a government relationship should be assumed, say, ten years of professional experience or ten years of working time, that there should not be a probationary period. We do not think it fair that for those who have been in a certain or even kinship position or status within a government relationship, the probation period should be justified, say, ten years or ten or a few years. We strongly recommend that there should be no mandatory probation in this case. Then, with regard to leadership, we see that it is unduly high, perhaps it is more realistic or more realistic to have a 2+2 year extension. It is not short, but in that time the staff or staff deficit that has occurred or which justifies this conduct can disappear, so that is enough time to make up for it in the stock. I think that if someone is forced to do this, they're going to sign anyway, but 5+5 years is a long time, and we're not sure it's realistic. That is our opinion, and then we will see how this goes in the debate. With the extension of the contract and the reintegration allowance, we see that it would be good for the crew to be included here, and not only for the crew, but also for the crew members. So this is also a deficiency, but it is very important to cover the circle that is actually affected or may be affected in the future. With regard to severance payments - I know, Minister, you often say this, and in some cases you are right that nothing is expensive in opposition and we can always say something bigger - we will certainly make a proposal, but not to the extent that it is true, but rather rationally. And what is perhaps important to us is that we see a linear increase as necessary, proportionality and linearity, which, in our view, is not necessarily included in the first proposal, although important and welcome. And then we have another suggestion here about language replacements, which is law enforcement Hst. I've had it, and I've missed it out of thoughtlessness. Here, however, because there are specific security policy professionals, we think it may be justified - we are obviously not making a very long list - and whether Russian or Arabic or Chinese may fit. In particular, the current agenda has justified that, whether in the fight against terrorism or in the case of foreign missions, there is no disadvantage if there is a colleague within the staff who may have this kind of knowledge. It's definitely important. As far as disciplinary proceedings are concerned and their termination is concerned, we will also make an additional amendment to the decision to terminate the disciplinary procedure even if it is found that the offence has been committed under duress or threat. This doesn't mean that it can happen in general - and not under the assumption of evil, but based on the fact that, unfortunately, life always produces things, it doesn't hurt to prepare for this possibility. If you don't give it to me, or if it happens at random, then don't be such a legal vacuum, but give it to me to be completely correct - and once again, if there's been evidence of any threat or forced violation - let us close this loophole. What we are saying about the territorial bonus is that we think it would be a much more serious guarantee if the Director General did not set the level of territorial bonus in an instruction, but, for example, you, Minister, in a ministerial decree, if appropriate. We believe that this is much clearer and is a much greater guarantee for those involved. Then the higher service fee is expressed as being eligible from 2017, but it is well known that there are certain prescribed tests that the colleague concerned is obliged to pass by 31 December 2015. There are exams like this, and here we do not understand - this is actually a question - why people who are obliged to take the exam by 31 December 2015 will have to wait two years for this amount, for this fee, because if they comply with the requirements, we do not see why this will be due from 2017. So we think it would be appropriate to clarify here too, bearing in mind those who are subject to this obligation, so that they do not act badly in this sense. The exemption from procurement and sales, authorisation - well, I don't know - is divided into opinions on what's right. There is a debate between us, within the faction and the experts, or between those involved in this area, but it might be worth talking about. [[18.10]] Some say that this exemption should be abolished. The general view that here, mainly in relation to sales and especially in the past... Minister has also dealt with in many cases what damage the property of the defence has been damaged, here we can rely on past experience, whether, where appropriate, there may be concerns that this exemption is appropriate in the case of sales, or whether there is a guarantee that there will be no abuse or injury. Obviously, this is the future, either close or distant, but it will certainly be in the future that if it stays that way, it will be appropriate. Finally, perhaps I would like to point out that I do not know how conscious or thoughtful it is that, in particular, at first reading with regard to bonuses, perhaps at several readings, there is too much conditional mode when certain supplements and certain multipliers can be given. Here is a general experience within a flock, and this is independent of absolute government cycles, that when you have a certain budget for either the military or the police, or any other area, obviously the leaders, the decision-makers are trying to cut costs, let's say. Obviously, his job is to properly steward himself with his costs, so to speak, and this conditional method may be a reason for this to be the rarest case. So if there could be clarification and clear, exact answers to when, to whom, and in which case, different benefits, allowances or multipliers could be granted and increased, that would be a huge step forward. Here's to the odds and benefits. In the case of drivers, these multipliers are considerably higher, which is not a question of why they are higher than a driver, so that is not the problem, it is just as if we are discovering disproportionateness. A few days or weeks ago, the police had a similar suggestion. It was a little different there, maybe more proportionate. Perhaps this would also be worth a rethink of how this proportionality could be respected or enforced, so as not to create such a gap between income and income. Finally, I would like to point out once again that we consider the proposal to be absolutely forward-looking, that it solves a lot of problems, but we would really like it to be better with the various amendments, and then, where appropriate, a consensus decision. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-03-31-153	Thank you, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I give the floor to the first independent Member, Mr Péter Kónya, in a 15-minute timeframe. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-31-154	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start with a positive element of the new career system, and this is the fact that the soldiers can finally get well-deserved wage development for years. I think that the kind of leasing that unfortunately occurred under socialist governments, and also under your government, by freezing the civil servant's salary fund, has indeed resulted in the inflection of wage development, which, by the way, represented a significant increase in wages for soldiers during the previous Fidesz government. I think it's about time we had some sort of wage arrangement for professional soldiers. However, I must say that you are talking about a predictable career model, a new career model, a predictable career model. This predictability seems to be about as predictable a career model as your Fundamental Law is granite, as it is the 2012 CCV. already in the preamble to the Act, it was accepted that they were talking about a predictable career, and that law practically came into force in mid-2013 and came into force. Compared to this, the year 2015 is now, and the entire salary system of the soldiers and his promotional system will be changed again. That's a lot of things, just not predictability. It is not predictable that the salary base is completely separated from the civil servant's salary base and is separated from the law enforcement salary base. I know that there have been a lot of proposals like this over the last decade, but it has been very clear, and I have lived through it as a soldier, and I have to say that for 16 years I have negotiated with the various governments, whether it is the wage development of soldiers or law enforcement workers, and it has clearly turned out to me that soldiers may now have a significant wage development, but this kind of detachment will cause losses to soldiers in the medium term and in the long term. For as long as politicians in a time of peace - and even here in the horseshoe - had to make a decision about how much the salary base would be - they had to decide on their own wages, and their hands were leaning towards themselves. The same could be said before the elections, that somehow there was always a source of income for the police. However, this category no longer includes prison guards, as well as firefighters and soldiers during the peace period, as they said that it was much more important to have public security, because it is important in the election campaign, and we will try to give it to the others. If we detach this stipend, these stipends will be separated very easily, in no time, and I have no doubt that in peacetime this will be at the expense of the soldiers. Unfortunately, this situation has now developed in our neighbour Ukraine, a little bit of attention has now been drawn to the soldiers, and as a result, it has been possible to connect soldiers to the new career system, the new career system for the police and politically engaged. However, this will not always be the case, so predictability will not be guaranteed either. Neither is predictability guaranteed by what my fellow Member, Mr Demeter, referred to, and this is an excuse for the colonels and generals without justification, because the career of soldiers is indeed a career where, if someone chooses this profession, especially if he chooses an officer's profession, he obviously has the purpose of reaching the rank and rank of colonel or general. The possibility of absolving someone from these posts without justification is totally unacceptable. We believe that it is expected that if someone is included in such a post, the minimum is to justify the grounds for absolving this high-ranking senior officer or general. The lucky thing is, they didn't take over what happens in Hst. is that even in his rank, the general can be re-qualified. I'm glad this didn't get in. You don't have to take over everything from Shst. anyway. But it's certainly interesting that they justify the possibility of absolution by saying that it's in Hst. If there is a separate legal status law, it can be applied where appropriate, and since soldiers also belong to NATO, we do not necessarily have to apply every such thing. However, it is incomprehensible - to go into one or two details - that it is in the bill, without justification, that the lieutenants must be promoted to captains in the next two years. We didn't find any justifications for why they thought so, by the way. Perhaps a greater problem is the establishment of a defence service fee and the determination of those years. It is likely that this table was made by people who had no soldiers in their lives or who had not completed military college. [[18.20]] The fact that it is actually calculated as the actual period of service is the result of the fact that when a professional soldier has served his military service before him or has just graduated from the military college that it does not count as the service period calculated for the defence service fee, this is completely incomprehensible and unacceptable. But it is also unacceptable for him to transfer from one of the other law enforcement agencies to a soldier and not to be counted into these periods of service. I believe that the person who became a professional or contract staff after his military service performed the same defence service during that period. The fact that this does not count for years is unacceptable and incomprehensible. I have several problems with the degree exam, so lateral movement. One is that we do not see the possibility of how this is going to happen, because at different times hundreds of people will have to be taken through such an examination. In practice, it is not really visible how this is going to happen. I'd be very happy to have something to say about that, Mr. Secretary. Perhaps a bigger problem is that we put these people on the test, and what we see here is that they can't really provide the right money in the system, because there's a tenth and a hundredth increase in the multipliers. This means that if a person passes the exam in lateral motion and meets the exam requirements, the salary will rise by roughly 1500 HUF net. I think that such an examination system should have a slightly greater margin of discretion. It's not necessarily a motivating thing. I'd like to go back to what Márta Demeter said. The promised insurance system will obviously be very much awaited by the soldiers, but who knows what will come of it, what will come of it, and how, since there are no concepts yet developed for this. However, the abolition of the service pension system has caused a huge break for the staff inside, and obviously also for those who were otherwise retired, but this transitional period is not really being dealt with. Several of my former fellow soldiers came to the street with practically remaining in the system, and then his unit ceased to exist, and then he was put on the street because he could not retire, and at the same time they could not provide him with a suitable position. This would have given you the opportunity to correct what you have legally abolished, since, as of 1 December 2007, everyone who had a service relationship of at least 20 years has been fixed, thereby guaranteeing by the State and the Government that they will be subject to the pension legislation and pension legislation in force at that time. This was guaranteed by law, and it was entered into Hjt. and Hszt. in accordance with the agreement between the trade unions and the government in order to halt the mass outflow of the stock. People who stayed in the system even though they knew that the service pension system would end on 1 January 2012 are now being punished for continuing to serve and for continuing to serve against those who had previously retired. I think it's immoral, not just against the law. This would be an opportunity for this to be dealt with retroactively in some way. I think that the labour market bonus is a good idea, because there are many special positions in the Hungarian Defence Office, which are linked to various civil qualifications and, where appropriate, can be sold on the civilian labour market, where they would be preferred with a much higher wage - whether in the competition sector or even in the public sector - but at the same time, together, the interoperability of the public service and the preference of this, the interoperability of civilians with the Hungarian Defence Office and, where appropriate, the qualification of soldiers as soldiers, while allowing them to comply with the ex post requirement, is suspicious because we have already seen an example of uploading the Hungarian Defence Service with party soldiers or party functionaries, and if we can even offset it with a 650 percent wage supplement, then this could be a good career course. At the same time, bringing such people into the system in the future, the current system and the amendment of the law, can completely upset the military career and military advancement. I do not say that they will live with it, but if such things can be used, we have seen a crow on a stake, and in many cases we have seen that after a political change - and this was typical of the socialist government, and it is typical of you - people were brought in and promoted to various levels of order while soldiers walked through, trampled through their own careers, and then suddenly people, who suddenly became generals and all sorts of positions. Unfortunately, there is a risk of this. It is also incomprehensible why the Military National Security Service should be preferred separately in Annex 6 without being named as the general military commander of the Hungarian Defence Forces, nor is the General Director of the Honvéd General Arm, whereas the Director of the Military National Security Service is specifically named in Table 6. If we're gonna name him, we're gonna try to name at least the same level of leaders, because this makes it look like the minister's own secret service is more important than, say, the general commander of the Hungarian Army. I think that giving back or at least strengthening trade union licenses would also be in your interest, because a constructively cooperating trade union with the right trade union licenses can also help your professional work. At the moment, the activities of the trade unions have been completely impossible. It is also important to mention that the current civil servants' salary base should start the new career system, even because if they counted 38 650 forints, it would be good to reassure the soldiers that they do not want to start with a lower salary base. I agree with my fellow Member, Adam Mirkóczki, on language replacements. As in Hst., it would be advisable not to prefer German and French separately, for example, as it is at least as important to prefer people with Russian, Serbian or Romanian language knowledge, as it is at least as important in bilateral military relations that they are able to use this language. That's all I wanted to say quickly, and my time was up. Obviously, I'm going to make some amendments. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-31-155	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by Members. I declare that Mrs Ágnes Vadai has withdrawn her intention to speak. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gábor Staudt applied for a statement. I give you the floor, please.
u2015-03-31-156	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I am not going to take advantage of the time frame; I would just like to comment briefly, to expand on a few points, to open up what my fellow Member Adam Mirkóczki has already talked about. I do not want to continue this unfortunate debate until 6:30. The previous agenda, the ISIS and the action against it have drawn the agenda to such an extent that there is less time for truly important issues than for the state of the Hungarian Defence Service, which is rather regrettable. The previous one was obviously political, and this is more of a professional debate. I'll tell you why I brought the previous agenda here. There it was said that we should meet our obligations, our obligations, whether they are expectations of international law or of humanity. [[18.30]] We are glad here that we have more money for the defence, but we are still very far from 2 percent of GDP, which is NATO's expectation. Of course, it can be said that there are a lot of countries with this because I know that this is what the Minister of Defence used to say, and it is factually true that there are a lot of NATO members who do not reach this 2 percent. Although I would like to add that Hungary's spending around 1 percent is also a driving force in this field, so there is still room for improvement. And speaking of our obligations or our responsibilities in international treaties, we could really spend more. And we hope that in the future, the level of defence costs will indeed increase. I know it's planned to start growing very slowly, and of course we don't underestimate that either, but in terms of when, let's say, the amount of defence spending can reach 2 percent, I haven't even heard a concrete estimate of the year. Of course, if the Minister of Defence has one, I would be very happy to hear it in his reply. I would also like to highlight a few points from the specific proposal. Article 2 In fact, the provisions of the Section on what a soldier can do in a civilian are extended. This is important because when a person takes a public service or even a military career, it does not matter what restrictions we impose on him in his civilian life. It's only natural to expect something. To give you a very distant example, the Bar Association expects lawyers to do so, even though it's a private profession not to behave in a civil way that, say, fits the law, but is not worthy of a career as a lawyer. I said the lawyers on purpose because they're actually private contractors, not public officials in the public sector. Therefore, some expectations can be defined, and the law currently contains expectations, to be precise, that he has prohibited inappropriate conduct to the service. I think that's a good way to put it. As my fellow Member Adam Mirkóczki said, this will be extended, but it seems to me that the scope of enlargement is a bit of a rubber rule. This will pose the danger that, in some cases, it is possible to walk against the soldiers as civilians - not a good word for their civil behaviour - and they will not know exactly what kind of behaviour might cause them to be subject to some sort of sanction. In particular, in this proposal, which is now before us, there is a violation of the rules of civil ethics, which, on the one hand, is what I found, or what I think the authors of the proposal are thinking, the code of ethics, which appeared as an annex to an HM instruction. If I'm wrong, correct me, Minister. We found this. Now, that's easier to change than a law. After all, an HM order means a more flexible legal environment, and therefore, in the future, behaviors or expectations that I think go beyond or beyond what can be expected of a military defender in his civilian life, and that makes him unpredictable, making the career that those who enter the military career or plan to live their lives here not sufficiently predictable. Well, that would be the goal of keeping someone on this track for as long as possible. In addition, in addition to violating the rules of military ethics, it will be included to be precise, the impartial, uninfluenced activity of the. Again, this is difficult to grasp, because who will decide when to become a party or not to have sufficient influence in their civilian life? So, what if he goes to a party meeting or a rally? Or a member of a party, sympathizer of a party? Or does he make a comment on Facebook that says he likes Fidesz policy? So obviously they won't, I suppose, regret it - but if he says he likes the politics of another party? Mr. Secretary is nodding, but let's get this straight. 'Cause if I can't legally understand why this category needs to be extended to a hundred percent, because obviously, if they're proposing enlargement, then there's why they're doing this, then I would, frankly, do it in an exact, more precise way. And as I said, these examples may also show what a soldier can do in a civilian's life. Can he be a party member, go to a party meeting, or, by the way, can he post a positive comment on a better statement on Facebook? These are very important questions. 'Cause if it's written down, you can obviously argue with that, you can say that it's a good rule or a bad rule, but there's nothing worse than rubber law. Even a very strict, startable rule is more predictable than a rubber rule. I feel a little like that. It belongs to the opinion I gave by my fellow Member Adam Mirkóczki. One more point that might belong here a little bit. Article 8 This has also been said several times, Colonel, to place General without justification in his command, which in fact means firing him in many cases. I'll tell you the truth, Minister, I'm a little insecure. Because it can be justified that the government or the minister should have an influence on who the senior officers are. There's a logic to that. But if this can be practiced to such an extent and uncontrollably, it can go in such a direction that it is actually the reason why the military arm will be politicized. Because if the minister can decide which senior officers to fire without a justification and then, I suppose, appoint them to their place, these two processes go hand in hand, then it's very easy to politicize the defence. And, of course, that's something to say that untalented senior officers are easier to remove. But if a person is untalented, then it may be possible to find the tools to filter out the untalented, and to remove them in a justification, a professional argument. This feels a little dangerous in the long run. And I don't necessarily mean the Fidesz-KDNP government. Maybe it'll come out to you, too. But let us try to create rules that guarantee a career from minister to minister, from parties to parties, if appropriate. It's not necessarily like that. I think an explanation on this matter should also be given to Parliament. The question of probation has also been raised as to why those who are being taken over from the public service should be subject to it. Here, too, I have a dilemma. Because, on the one hand, it is easy to protect that probation is a good thing, we get to know each other, working well on a given delivens, not working well, can be sent without justification. It's just these people coming from somewhere. And they may be able to come over, say, to the defense, or they're being relocated to remove them from their other position, and, where appropriate, they can be removed during probation. This may happen in some cases, but, as I have said, when we create a law, let us try to prepare for each case, not just write down the optimal, beautiful things in the law. I could also say that if we were to look only at the interests of HM and look only at the defence aspect, then that is the logic, Minister. But if the career of those people and, let's say, a career in public service, and the public service here, everything is covered, the defence, the public sector, even the local governments, it will be three months when these people feel vulnerable. We hope that we will not encounter a mass of abuse or abuse. It had to be said here before the National Assembly. Of course, time will show whether we will be right about this, or in practice these cases will not happen. [[18.40]] That is what I wanted to say, Minister, and I look forward to your reply either calming me down or answering these questions. And as my colleague Mirkóczki said, we appreciate the steps that have been taken in the right direction, and we also appreciate the efforts. We know that the money is always small, but in these cases, what we have brought up, it is not good to have the knife run out of some places, and in this case, we will also ruin the good measures a little bit. Thank you very much, Mr. President. That's all I wanted to say. [[Dr. László György Lukács applauds.]]
u2015-03-31-157	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Márta Demeter, MSZP Group, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor.
u2015-03-31-158	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add a few sentences to my comments on the bill so far. Clearly, we cannot examine any law on our own without seeing the environment in which it is being implemented. We see that in recent years the Hungarian Defence budget has fallen to a historic low, and what my fellow Member has said is that 2% of GDP would be a very supportive goal. I think that if it could be achieved within six months from the extraordinary reserve or from 1 January in the next year's budget, that at least 1 percent of the planned GDP should be the Hungarian Defence budget, then that would be a step forward. And although it would not remedy the huge layoffs and HUF 250 billion that the Orbán government has withdrawn from the Hungarian Defence budget over the last five years, this would, by the way, define development opportunities and prospects for decades, so I think that obviously this cannot be offset by our proposal, but it is certain that the government's intention would be an example of how much security actually counts for the government. After all, it is clear that we are thinking in a federal system, we talk a lot about a 5th article, a collective protection article with a couple before it, less about the maintenance and development of national forces, because any federal system can be as strong as its weakest link, and we obviously have a fundamental interest in both Hungary and the federal system, so that the Hungarian forces can function and develop as efficiently as possible. At this point, I would turn back to the press news that I asked in writing, so I have no doubt that I will get the answer in writing whether it is true that almost a third of the fighter pilots are considering leaving the Hungarian Army. It is also stated in the article that despite the promised salary increase, which, I stress once again, is very welcome and commendable, and it is absolutely necessary to achieve it, but, as I mentioned, the appreciation must work in order to effectively keep the stock and to keep well-trained professionals in the army. My question in this regard is what, by the way, Minister is planning to stop such a process, if that is the case. Does the labour market bonus mentioned in the proposal apply, for example, to pilots? Who will it apply to? After all, there are many fields of expertise and many positions that require a qualification that is a sought-after skill in the market, and it would obviously be in the interest of these well-trained professionals who have difficult skills to replace, not to leave the army and serve as long as possible. And at this point, to serve as long as possible, I would like to return to the service pension system or the early retirement system. After all, it is clear that, while I continue to consider it one of the biggest crimes of the government, that he has terminated the service system and did so, he has not even done so in an ascending system, and he has not given me any opportunity behind or instead of this. It is apparent that the intention is to keep well-trained professionals, our dedicated soldiers and defence workers in the Hungarian Defence System as long as possible. This is a common interest, I add, for those who choose this profession want to serve as long as possible, because it is their life and their profession, but it is absolutely necessary to have an early system, a socially just system that gives merit, a stable point. And I am sure that, regardless of whether such a thing exists, everyone will strive - and the model of the career - to be in the Hungarian Defence Corps as long as possible, however, such an important pillar of the military career cannot be saved as a proper appreciation of lifelong sacrifice. And if I mentioned some of the elements of appreciation, such as proper working conditions, I would no longer mention the state of individual equipment, how clothing can or cannot be purchased, whether or not it is sold, I am sure that we will return to these at committee meetings, and we will talk about it. But a very important question: what about the helicopter tender? This question remains, by the way. You also exist because of the stock and because of the security of the Hungarian people, as these are the military tools that the country uses for civilian tasks and disaster response tasks in the same way. In May 2013, there has been a multi-party discussion on this issue, since then several times here in Parliament's plenary session, and in detailed debates this issue has been raised many times.In the spring of 2014, after the change of government, everyone has been promised that a public, transparent, national helicopter tender will be issued. To this day we do not see the spark of this, it is a very urgent task. We would like to see where the money will come from, when it will be realised, and I would add that when we talk about raising the budget resources of the Hungarian Defence Office, i.e. suddenly about 1 percent of GDP - I think that this is not much for security, and the government has taken away much more in the last five years - we mean this 1 percent of GDP is not a helicopter tender, of course, and I would like to emphasise this. So, if the Minister can give us a specific answer, we would be very happy to do so. Thank you. [[Anita Herring claps.]]
u2015-03-31-159	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kósa, Fidesz Group.
u2015-03-31-160	Mr. President. Dear House, How much a country can devote to its defence and security is not only a matter of political will, obviously, but also a question of the performance of the economy. My fellow Member, Mr Demeter, has repeatedly called on us to look at military expenditure in a broader context, but it does not concern itself, because it really needs to be seen in a broader context. My dear fellow Member, The Hungarian economy's deep flight until 2010 is the result of your government's production of the near bankruptcy of the Hungarian budget. Your disaster management has created a situation where, no matter how important it is for us to protect and protect the nation, we can only stretch until our blanket reaches. We have not continued the fiscal policy that, at the price of the country's debt to the extremes, has ensured the country's non-normal functioning, but its survival at all, at the price of the $12.5 billion IMF loan drawn up at the last minute. At the time when we took over the steering column in 2010, we made it clear that the country's economic performance depends on how much we can spend on career models, protection costs, education, health care, and, of course, everything that needs to be financed from the central budget and income centralisation. So it is only prayerful to say that the military, defence-related expenditure on GDP is low, it is extremely unworthy and unfair, if you do not add that we are very sorry, honourable Hungarian voters, which we have caused, Socialists, by destroying the country's economy, by pursuing an economic policy that has been worse every year since 2006 than the previous year, by increasing unemployment beyond all borders, otherwise by maintaining distribution systems that are clearly unfunded by Hungary's economy and budget. He's unfunded! [[18.50]] Even though it is said every time, because it includes, of course, the service pension system, there should be no misunderstanding, the absurdity of creating a preferential pension scheme with the system of service pensions in Hungary was that in more than 50 ways and at the same time the most diverse groups of employment groups could go to preferential pensions, service pensions and other old-age pensions. By the way, it only caused the armed forces and law enforcement agencies to spend $60 billion extra on the pension fund, and that's what the country couldn't bear. We have had this debate then, and you have always said it, but we will not return to this, instead we are thinking about the appreciation of the career model that is in front of us, and that, by the way, we are bringing a system that does not bring back the system of service pensions as normal, but rather gives us the opportunity to do this task with adequate employment for people who serve the state, people who work for the state, until their retirement age. This is what side-side options, access options are for, and one of the other elements of this system will be the insurance system that covers a loss of working capacity that does not result from the worker's own fault, which, of course, must be created by minimal solidarity and different state career models, and what is necessary to create. Therefore, I think it is extremely gratifying that we are no longer talking about how to avoid bankruptcy, but we are talking about how, in what way we increase military spending, how we are trying to achieve the level that the Hungarian Prime Minister has already taken up at the Welsh summit, and this budget year already has the first concrete data that can be supported by numbers. Take a look at the fact that the overall amount of the military chapter is increasing in such a way that the introduction of a career model that we already knew and planned in January has not yet been added. Adding this is a much higher increase, because it's 20 billion plus this budget year, and we've only counted nine as a surplus. So when you asked for no tricks, our socialist fellow Member obviously started out of himself, because the socialists, while they were ruling, are hundreds of budget tricks, which you do not need to know, said their Prime Minister... - and indeed, under the leadership of János Veres, they have committed the wildest budgetary manipulations, which, by the way, has made a meaningful comparative analysis of defence spending indisputable. Of course, since we are not socialists, we do not trick with the budget, we do not want to, and that is why we can also be reassured that, of course, in relation to defence expenditure, when the state buys assets, it strengthens various capabilities, we must act in the strictest possible terms under the Public Finance Act and the Public Procurement Act. The only thing I don't understand is why you're acting like you're acting like you're acting agents for Sikorsky or Agusta, and you're trying to get some kind of data out of your wallet in the spirit of preparation. They could be a little bit more careful, or at least more responsible, because, of course, the acquisition of helicopters and the strengthening of this ability is obvious that it has to take place in connection with some kind of tender and tender procedure, but it should be avoided - because this helicopter capacity development is now being monitored by all the existing producers in the world - in order to put ourselves in a position where we cannot choose the best solution. Therefore, this caution is fully understandable, and I would specifically like to ask Members not to try to put Hungary in a position where there should be a more expensive or coercive solution. I believe that this is a sufficiently large amount of development to be done with the utmost care here. Several of my fellow Members have drawn attention, in terms of wording and conditional mode, to all kinds of dangers that are not really real. I do not know what my fellow Member meant at the time when he assumed that the Minister of Defence would appoint party soldiers in the general's arms, as this would reduce the country's defence capacity. Even in the Kádár system, there was not much of an example of this, perhaps in the '50s it was still possible to find an example of the fact that the masses of those party functionaries, who had no idea of defence, had no idea of defence, but were not typical of the late Kádár era, and since the change of regime, this cannot be said at all. So this is a danger that my fellow Member sees in the defence without any precedent at all. [[Peter Kónya: You should be right.]] The other point is: I hope that the honourable Members have carefully read the bill, but it seems that this has not always succeeded, because then they would not ask, for example, who is subject to the so-called labour market supplement in the case of tasks involving special skills, skills and training. Of course, it also applies to pilots, which is in the law. If you have to ask if it's for your watch, then there is a real possibility that you have to read the law more thoroughly, or that experts have to wash their heads, that they couldn't figure it out, but whoever reads the law can clearly see that it applies to everyone. Otherwise, of course, it depends on the discretion of the leaders to define this circle, but it applies to everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, As a Member, I would like to ask once again - of course, you have the right to make all kinds of objections, obviously this will have to be discussed at committee meetings in connection with the amendments - and I would like, in any case, to initiate a five-party discussion at the beginning of next week, before the committee meetings, to which we will invite interested representatives and write to the group leaders, so that we can discuss possible issues such as those raised several times in Hst. I think that the person who has sat through the two five-party negotiations convened by the Minister of the Interior in connection with the Hst.'s conciliation can see that a number of compromise proposals have been made in Hst and have been supported by the committee. As Chairman of the Defence Commission, I shall, in any case, initiate such a five-party consultation. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Good idea!]] Everyone else, of course, can still make any amendment they want, but Mr Mirkóczki, or the other Members who participated in these discussions, have confirmed and indicated that this can be useful, because you have also formulated a number of problems that can be safely incorporated into the bill in connection with a compromise text. [[19.00]] So if anyone is interested in this issue, then I will certainly do this five-party consultation and this offer to the faction leaders, and I ask them to consider it. However, I say that the amendments will have to be discussed as well as any other law. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-31-161	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, Member of the MSZP Group, applied for a two-minute speech. You have the floor.
u2015-03-31-162	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, I am sorry to see that you always have some disappointing phrase in these debates, by the way. I was hoping that we might try to deal with political contributions in two minutes, and then what is professional in the 15 minutes, but you could talk about a purely political story for 12 minutes. But let's be more specific, and then I'll be like this in two minutes. The Hungarian Defense budget in 2010 was more than 1.1 percent of GDP. So the budget has never fallen below 1 percent of GDP. I'm sure you can't defend that and explain why, by the way, in your time, this has fallen so drastically. About helicopter tenders, why we are so interested in this: perhaps because we are talking about the safety of Hungarian people. I wonder why you don't care more. When you were still in opposition, you knew very well when the transport helicopters would expire. Over the last five years, nothing has been done to resolve this situation, and there is nothing to justify this kind of delay and its responsibility - I add. He mentions that we should not bring, that we should not create a situation so that Hungary may have to buy helicopters more expensively. I would add, Mr President, that the five years of delay you have done, the five years of inaction, is putting Hungary in a position where it will be forced to do so. So it is in the government's best interest to resolve the issue as quickly as possible, not the opposition's. [[Anita Herring claps.]]
u2015-03-31-163	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kósa in a two-minute time frame, Fidesz Group.
u2015-03-31-164	Dear Parliament, My dear fellow Member, I am not discouraged to remind you that it was a simple, transparent budget trick that made you, by the way, hovering up on the budget expenditure side, keeping military spending above 1 percent, with the simple solution that the money you were supposed to pay from the pension fund was booked into the military expenditure section. We stopped this in order not to fool the voters and ourselves, as you did - I remind you once again of the speech of your then prime minister, the hundreds of budget tricks, he confessed - but precisely to face the facts. The actual military expenditure, from which we can really conclude on the country's defence capabilities, is this, and this certainly does not include the fact that, at the time, a rather significant amount of military expenditure was transferred, because the pensions of service and early retirement soldiers were also counted against the military budget; however, despite the fact that it was repeatedly drawn to the financial administration's attention that this was unacceptable, because pension expenditure should be booked to the pension fund. So, once again, with a transparent, primitive budget trick, I can safely say: they were cosmeticizing the numbers by cheating, and we just wanted to show you what the actual numbers are. That's what happened. By the way, you can rest assured that there is no way in which we are putting ourselves and the country in an emergency situation with regard to helicopter tenders. Of course, all existing legislation must be respected in relation to helicopter tenders, and it cannot be understood that emergency bells are already ringing for events that are not yet happening, which is completely incomprehensible to us here. Helicopter capacity needs to be improved, this must be covered by the Budget Act and all legislation must be complied with. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-31-165	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, Jobbik Group.
u2015-03-31-166	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't want to be a buzzkill, it's a legal act. So I'd like to talk about T-72 sales and all that nice stuff, and we'd have a critical comment, but that's not it. This must therefore be said if someone is still following Parliament's meetings. So we didn't get involved in these excellent debates because we wouldn't have anything to add, but if he comes before Parliament or if there's a similar law here, we'll deal with it. As far as GDP is concerned, it is a rather strange debate when Fidesz and the MSZP are discussing how the spending has turned out. The fact that the MSZP was higher than the current level only means that from a high base, which is, say, the beginning of the 90's, was constantly reduced. However, the MSZP government was earlier than the current Fidesz government, that's all it means. But if we say it would be a MSZP government again, but it won't be, so I'll reassure everyone, there won't be, we hope that it will never, but if there were, it wouldn't climb up to 2 percent again. On the part of the MSZP, we have heard resolutions - now really taking advantage of the two-minute time frame - saying that even the current military numbers are increased, which is much lower than that laid down in the Trianon Peace Treaty. We're struggling to get her up, and in fact, they think it's completely unnecessary. So, in fact, the debate is not how much it was then, and now, given the tricks that my fellow Member Kósa has really told me, how pension expenditures can be accounted for in exchange for the defence... - so these are completely perverse accounting tricks, or what Gyurcsány said, they are indeed hundreds of tricks, but as far as this is concerned, let's talk about the statute law. Of course, we can argue about something else, but when he's here before the National Assembly, and I'd like to see if we can get the debate back to square one. Thank you.
u2015-03-31-167	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I give the floor to Minister Csaba Hende, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. Here you go, Minister.
u2015-03-31-168	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I will try to respond very briefly, but still to every point of substance. I apologize in advance if this will take a few minutes. I'd like to stick to the subject, of course, not wander. However, since the budgetary issues have been so often raised in relation to the percentage of GDP and in its historical nature this issue has been highlighted, I would like to say that in 2012 the Government of Hungary committed itself to a resolution that, although the financial crisis that had been inherited and threatened with the state tube had a forced effect that a significant part of the cost of exiting the crisis had to be paid by the Hungarian Defence Office, this could not be avoided, but we have stabilised our budget, and we said that the budget should not be reduced between 2012 and 15th, until it will increase by 0.1 per cent of GDP per year from 2016. Well, after years of making the decision, I can say with good spirit that Hungary's government has significantly exceeded its commitment in 13, 14 and 15, i.e. it has increased the defence budget in nominal terms instead of maintaining the level. Given that inflation is virtually negligible, the increase of more than 8 percent already mentioned here by MEP Lajos Kósa in some HUF 20 billion means the same real value increase for 2015 already. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Welsh summit here, the commitments made there, in 2015 as I counted - I have compared the numbers myself - I may even be wrong about the number of countries, but as if I had read that 11 of the 28 NATO Member States had their budget cut from 2014 to 15. It's down! There is one, the twelfth, France, which remained on the level. Well, it's worth considering the trends. [[19.10]] Mr Staudt also asked when we would reach 2 percent of GDP. Well, that's even further. The 2012 Government Decision, which has already been mentioned, envisages an increase of 0.1 per cent from 2016 onwards, which means that by 2023 we will reach a level of 1.4 per cent. You know, ladies and gentlemen, that the budget for 2016 is now being planned, and you will be able to vote on this budget before Parliament's summer break, and you will see how this government commitment, defined as 0.1 per cent of GDP, applies in the 2016 budget. Congresswoman Márta Demeter asked me about the early retirement scheme, so first let me respond to what she said in two parts. Of course, soldiers get early retirement. As you know, or if you do not know, I would like to inform you that the rules adopted in 2011 concern the possibility for soldiers to use the so-called pre-retirement reserve before five years before the retirement age which otherwise applies to them. This means that they can go five years before everyone else, compared to the average worker, to a special reserve where they receive basically an allowance corresponding to their calculated pension and can only be called back and used again in exceptional condition and in the event of a war situation. I do not think that is a negligible aspect. Although I promised to stay on the subject, you asked me a few questions. Where's the money for helicopters coming from? Perhaps you will not be surprised by the answer: only and exclusively from the Hungarian state budget, the taxpayers' money. When will it happen? The two issues are linked: once the necessary amount is available. You accused us of inaction. I would like to say that we have been working on this issue continuously over the last few years, and the Ministry of Defence has, for its part, carried out the necessary professional preparatory work until the smallest detail, and it is entirely up to the insurance of financial collateral to start the procurement. I would like to briefly point out, with regard to the first speech by Mrs Márta Demeter, that in the case of over-service over 150 hours, the soldier can decide between free time and payment in cash. You asked, Congresswoman, why it is not the same as in Hst, in the bill before us, indicating a minimum salary. It's because there's a different method of regulation. Here is the annex to the law, which gives the minimum and the amount, together with the salary base, the sum of which is 38 650 HUF this year, and, as I told you, it will increase by 5 percent next year, so that is HUF 41 620 in 2017 and HUF 43 110 in 2018 and HUF 44 600 in 2019. The fact that the defence salary base will increase to this extent will, of course, depend on the content of the current budget law, and we will determine it jointly. So if your next question is that, but what is the guarantee that this salary base will grow like this, all I can say is that you and I, together with the two of us, are going to present it and vote together, and I hope that you will support these further increases. Congresswoman asked why the HM regulation would allow the minister to set a higher salary than the senior executives. The reason for this is that these managers are excluded from the bonus system, and in no other way can we reward additional performance. Indeed, it is a flexible change in the working time frame that takes into account the employer's interests. The law guarantees that two days of rest are due to the soldier each week, and in the remaining five days, a total of 40 hours must be completed, with daily working hours between 4 and 12 hours, so that this is practical due to the different training and other uses, and after the pay for overtime in the form of today's work for the future will obviously be lost, it will be important to spend leisure time. Several raised the possibility of acquittal from positions organised by the rank of Colonel and General without justification. I would like to say that, compared to the regulations on police officers and other BMs, this is our rule, which we are bringing in now, much, to say the least, because only the highest-ranking officers and soldiers are involved here, while, at the police station - let us stay with the police - the staff commander can do so in any rank category, i.e. at the lowest rank. So much for how and how it is possible to be arbitrary. Of course, it's a long debate, I don't want to get involved here, I'm a lawyer myself, and I've negotiated quite a lot of labour law lawsuits, it's very difficult to sue for explanations, and there are relationships based on trust, working relationships where there can't be a place for this, because it's not sensible to want this. With regard to Mr Mirkóczki's points, I would like to say that the Code of Conduct is in the process of being issued, and the rule does not contain any legal consequences. Several people, including him, have spoken about the issue of language replacements, which we call the STANAG replacements in NATO, thus expressing that we prefer only those languages that are really useful in our modern cooperation systems, in our federal system. But, of course, in order to encourage rarer languages - Arabic, Chinese, or even Russian, which cannot be classified as rare in terms of knowledge in the military, but is currently less useful in the daily work - it can also be replaced by a ministerial decree. With regard to the exam, I would like to say that you may not have studied the rule thoroughly enough: instead of the end of 2015, we will have to pass the test by the end of 2016 and we will advance it for everyone. There is a conceptual problem with regard to the disciplinary offence committed in the face of coercion or threat, there is no disciplinary offence, there is no conceptually, there is no way if the act is committed by the soldier under duress or threat. [[19.20]] That's 53. The only reason why the amendment to the Law on Military Products is that the Ministry of Defence's Procurement Office has been established in the meantime. Mr Mirkóczki suggested that the establishment of the territorial bonus should be regulated, not by the Director-General of the CBI, but by the standard issued by the Minister for Defence. I can accept that suggestion. I'm not at all bothered by the fact that you're suggesting that I have this authority. It has come to light that certain benefits are in conditional mode in the law. There is no uncertainty left in the system, as you can see in the empowering provisions that the detailed rules for these benefits will be set out in the HM regulations within the range from to and including the exact figures for each case. Congressman Konya also touched on the entry into force of the high-rankings. That's what I said. It is not the lieutenants who need to be promoted to captains, the lieutenants' opportunities for promotion are included in the law, only because - and that is not an obligation - thank God there will be a very large number of graduates among young people serving in the Ludovika Battalion and studying higher education at the National University of Public Service. Congressman Konya was pushing the question of duty hours. The interpretation of this depends on the legal institution. For example, for the Jubilee Prize, college time is included, but not for the Defence Service Fee, but only for the actual service period. It's a matter of principle in the system, so let's rule it this way. Where will the exam take place? In the same place where we are now, honourable Member, that is why we have established our examination centre. The rule on fixed service times for those in the system is not affected by the proposal before us. In Annex 6, you objected to the fact that the OHP Commander and the Chief of Staff were not named. But, of course, it is clearly and identifiable in points 6 and 7 by means of a central level commander or a Major General. Congressman Staudt has also raised ethical rules. These are contained in an HM instruction and there are rules of conduct in the Service Regulations. Such violations may be based on disciplinary or indecent proceedings. But a very important and guaranteeing rule is that a detailed investigation will prevent a decision and the rules of redress will prevail. Several have raised the question of probation, including Congressman Staudt, as to why it is necessary that when someone is transferred from another part of the public service to the military, he is equipped as a soldier to deal with a certain probationary period. Because, please, the probationary period allows both the employer and the employee, let us say in short, to terminate the relationship during the probationary period without consequences. Mother, that's not the horse I wanted - both sides can say that. Not everyone and not automatically suitable for a soldier. It's a very specific, closed world. Anyone who sees it from the outside often can't imagine what it means. If you get in, you'll have three months to decide if that's what you wanted. Ladies and gentlemen, I tried to be very short. Finally, I would like to thank you for the positive signals that have marked the comments of almost all speakers. I am reassured that the system itself, the completely novel system that we call a career model, is truly a revolutionary new and long-term sustainable basis for the personal system of defence, and creates predictable relations and futures for each soldier, it has been welcomed. And I would like to welcome the intention of conciliation announced by President Lajos Kósa, our fellow Member, Chairman of the Defence and Police Committee. Of course, experts from the Ministry of Defence will give you all the necessary background support to do so, in order to help with this discussion. Otherwise, we are absolutely open to the amendments for improvement. Thank you again for your cooperation and your attention. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-03-31-169	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, Next up is the LIII of the year on judicial enforcement. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. A separate motion from the Judicial Committee is made by T/3879. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to György Rubovszky, rapporteur of the Judicial Committee, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-31-170	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Before the Parliament lies bill No. 3879, which was submitted by the Judicial Committee and which relates to the work of the executive chamber. Basically, the entire legislative amendment contains procedural rules and has been developed to strengthen the powers of the Minister's Commissioner. The Secretary of State will obviously inform this House of the things that have happened within the Chamber of Executives, and I am reluctant to comment on this, given that we do not have any direct information, and the information that has come to us has led the committee to present this bill. We're talking about a public service body here. If this is inoperable or inoperable, there are very serious disadvantages for public life. We have tried to remove from the bill obstacles in the current law, which partly involve the possibility of obstruction, and partly hinder the activities of the public body. It is a very important question that the ministerial commissioner would be given the right to convene an extraordinary assembly, but the law clearly states that he can do so with a reason and a target and a deadline of 30 days. Different procedural issues are still dealt with by the law, which is of no particular importance. It is important that the re-election of officials has been restricted, so that the elected officials can be recalled at most once, and the official mandate is also limited to four years. It is entirely new to take action that the elected officials may be recalled by the general meeting without justification by valid voting. [[19.30]] I think that was the question, which raised the biggest debate at the Justice Committee meeting. I do not feel that the situation is so unsettled, but we are open to the question of clarifying this situation. What are we talking about here? It is a question of whether, if the withdrawal is to be decided by a repeated general meeting, the decision of the general meeting shall be taken regardless of the members present. With all due respect, it's a two-step process. The story is that one day a valid general meeting should be convened. All members of the Chamber shall be invited. If they don't show up, it's their risk. In the event that the decision cannot be made because the body has become indecisive, so it is not that it has been rejected, but that it is that it is not a decisionless, then we can talk about a repeated assembly if, with the same deadline, it has been left out of the law, and it has also been left out of our proposal, the repeated assembly is convened. However, I would like to stress that all members of the Assembly should also be invited to the repeated assembly. Therefore, all members of the panel are invited to attend, and this provision is intended solely to avoid obstruction, possibly to render it inoperable, and thereby to prevent the majority will. On the basis of the same argument, it is also stated in the bill that the current Chamber Act states that the General Assembly is valid if four members of the Presidency are present. Now this is not a big problem, because at the moment there are not any members of the Presidency, because I understand that the entire presidency of the executive chamber has resigned, but this is a problem, and so, in fact, the assembly could be obstructed by the members of the Presidency, because if the four of them have left, they have rendered the assembly inoperable. With all due respect, on 16 March, after this debate, it was decided that the committee had tabled this bill in favour of 9 yeses and 2 non-votes. I would like to say that Jobbik voted with us in that Commission decision, but only the socialist party representatives did not vote for this legislation. The concerns raised by the socialists, particularly by Mr Barándy, did not dissuade the pro-government and the right-wing Members, thus creating this ratio. With all due respect, I would ask that the Parliament please negotiate the law if it sees it amended our bill, but in any case move towards a solution and vote in favour of the bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-31-171	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Secretary of State if he wishes to speak on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-03-31-172	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear President, Ladies and gentlemen, In our legal system in force, the local government body of independent judicial executives, the Hungarian Chamber of Executives of the Court of Justice, plays a decisive role in the operation of the implementing system. This public body shall carry out public tasks as defined in the implementing body legislation. In recent years, criticisms of the operation of executives and chambers have been strengthened, both by those seeking implementation and by debtors. This led the Government to examine the operation of the Chamber and to review the legislation underlying the functioning of the implementing organisation system. Reforms can then be carried out to create a more effective enforcement organisation for the greater satisfaction of citizens. As the first step of this process, the Parliament adopted in November 2014 the 2014 LXXIII. a law amending, inter alia, certain provisions of the law on judicial enforcement concerning the enforcement body and creating the possibility of appointing the Minister's Commissioner in order to make cooperation between the judicial government and the Chamber more effective. Following the adoption of the Act, the Minister of Justice appointed a ministerial commissioner for the supervision of the executive chamber in November 2014. The law provides the means by which the Minister's Commissioner can get a realistic picture of the operation of the implementation organisation. In connection with the activities of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Justice has begun to review the legislation concerning the implementation organisation system and to prepare the concept of restructuring the implementation organisation system. T/3879 submitted by the Committee on Justice of the Parliament. Legislative bill No.3 extends the scope of the Minister's powers in relation to the Chamber and allows him to convene an extraordinary chamber assembly and amends the rules on the functioning of the chamber's main body, the general assembly and the election of officials. This amendment concerning the powers of the Minister's Commissioner was negotiated and supported by the Government, as the right to convene an extraordinary assembly provides the Minister's Commissioner with a means to initiate at the chamber's supreme body the remedying of operational problems, thereby enabling him to exercise his supervisory powers more effectively. Under the current rules, the quorum of the Chamber Assembly is conditional on the presence of at least four members of the Presidency. As this regulation carries the risk of the chamber's inability to function, the Government also supports the amendment on the basis of which the number of current Bureau members is not to be taken into account for the quorum of the General Assembly in the future. The new provisions under the bill make it clear that the general assembly has the right to recall officials elected to chamber bodies either individually or collectively, which is not permitted in the organisational and operational regulations. This amendment is also eligible as it clearly expresses the original legislative intention and does not give rise to interpretation disputes. It is also an essential element of the bill that it sets a limit on the re-election of chamber officials and states that officials can only be re-elected once. The Government agrees that the rule limiting re-election is a suitable tool to ensure more effective participation of the Chamber in the management bodies. In summary, the bill promotes, according to the government's objectives and our position on judicial enforcement, the objectives which the opposition does not dispute by granting the ministerial commissioner appointed for the supervision of the chamber's operation the right to convene the chamber's general meeting and clarifying the regulation by amending the law on judicial enforcement on the operation of the chamber, in particular its quorum, which gives rise to an interpretational debate. Dear House, Mr President, On behalf of the government, I propose and ask for the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2015-03-31-173	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-03-31-174	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a brief comment on the bill before us. In mid-March, the Judicial Committee presented the proposal that we have just discussed to amend the provisions relating to the operation of the Hungarian Chamber of Executives of the Court of Justice. LIII of 1994 on judicial enforcement The Act contains provisions relating to the operation of the Hungarian Chamber of Executives of the Court of Justice which, in the event of the termination of the mandate of individual directors or officials for any reason, pose a risk of failure of the public body. [[19.40]] The chamber is the law 250. According to § (1) of the Act establishing which it is a public body, its inability to decide constitutes an infringement of legal certainty. For the reasons set out above, it is appropriate to establish appropriate legislation by means of legislation. In order to strengthen public confidence in justice and the enforcement system, the Ministry of Justice appointed a ministerial commissioner for the Chamber at the end of last year. With this amendment, it will be possible for the ministerial commissioner appointed to the Chamber to convene an extraordinary general meeting, which will allow him to exercise his supervisory powers even more effectively. I cannot stress that the aim of the proposal is to establish a new, clean, transparent, fair judicial enforcement system, which takes into account human dignity. The aim is to restore people's trust in justice, to make procedures more efficient and faster. The development of transparent chamber operations will help to strengthen public trust in justice. I think that we all agree on the importance of all this, because it is also in the common interest of the country. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support the bill that has been tabled. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-03-31-175	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Gergely Bárándy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-31-176	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, It is not for the first time that the bill on the executive faculty and the executive chamber is actually presented to Parliament, and we do not have a dispute with each other that there is a need for some change in this area, not everything is going as it should go. I put it in parentheses, it would also be time to examine the costs of implementation, because if there is a problem somewhere, I think it is there; it is an amazing extra cost for citizens, which, in my view, is untenable. In any case, I wanted to highlight this as a matter of priority, because if there is a need to make a change in the implementation of the Hungarian court, then I think that this would be the first. However, we have accepted and noted the need for changes here, as regards the Chamber and its activities. A Commissioner for Ministers has been appointed to the Executive Chamber and this Minister's Commissioner has already been given a fairly broad mandate by adopting an earlier law. I think that if I can sum up the substance of this proposal in such a way that it gives the Minister's Commissioner even more power, then it is worth listing what powers he has had so far in terms of implementation, because one tends to believe or tend to narrow down his thinking to these few provisions, ignoring the powers that the Minister's Commissioner has already exercised. If we highlight this, then we can certainly ask questions about the need for further extension of this power. So, here's the thing. 1. Any financial commitment of the Chamber, acceptance of the performance of the contracts and payments shall require the approval of the Minister's Commissioner and shall only exercise the employer's powers over the chamber staff. 2. He may attend the Chamber Assembly and other chamber bodies' meetings. 3. You may request information from the chamber bodies and their officials. 4. You can learn all the information handled by the Chamber and its organs. Then you can see any documents of the chamber and its organs. You can also enter any room used by the chamber and its organs. Perhaps one of the most important things now follows: you can order an investigation into the management and IT systems of the Chamber. Then it provides information to the press, radio and television on enforcement issues. It may order verification of the conflicts of interest of the executive and may notify the Minister of the existence of a conflict of interest, depending on the outcome of the audit carried out by the Chamber. It shall decide on the permanent replacement secondment and the termination of the permanent replacement secondment. Allows the establishment of a joint executive office and the establishment of an executive agency. It may initiate the issue of guidance. It approves the distribution of enforcement cases in the case of executives operating under the same district court and approves changes in the distribution of cases during the year. Once again, a very important authority: you can apply for the executive post within 3 months of the establishment or vacancy of the post. The proposal to appoint an executive shall be approved by the Chamber before the date of its submission. Ladies and gentlemen, If we look at this list, then I think that I am right to ask why, in order to clean up the executive chamber, it is necessary to raise further powers. And if we look at what this power is, it gives us even more bad feelings, as President Rubovszky indicated in his expozee. You can convene the extraordinary assembly at any time from here on out. We also said that, in exceptional cases, we would also understand that the legislator would allow this in a single case, because the situation is that the entire presidency of the executive chamber has resigned. So here I am saying that it is justified that such a entitlement should be granted to the Minister's Commissioner. But why should this be extended without a deadline? Why can't this be limited to a one-time thing? Let's continue to see what changes in the law. In the future, the chamber's official may be recalled at any time without justification. I'd like to know what this is all about. I am generally opposed to the possibility of measures without justification, especially when it comes to personal matters, especially when it is, if you like, a question of power, because I think that if something gives space to self-indulgent, this is it. When it is not enough to depend on one person's decision, let us say, something - this is a matter of special corporate decision - I would like to point out that I am not wrong about this - but why does this have to happen without justification? Why can it be without justification? Well, there's got to be a reason to call him back. It usually happens without justification where the reason cannot be accepted. Is that the kind of withdrawal you're planning? Because what else can one conclude if the obligation to state reasons is not fulfilled? The other is that if the chamber official does his job, his job, his activities, he still has the legal options to move him away. We have the opportunity to initiate disciplinary action, we have the opportunity to suspend, we have the opportunity to prosecute. What's the need for a recall? President Rubovszky said, and he is right about that, that a repeated assembly can only be held, regardless of the presence, without regard to the presence of those present, to recall an official, and that this means that the assembly will be convened twice. I don't know. I don't know exactly how the bar works. I am familiar with the operation of the Bar Association, as President Rubovszky well knows. There this usually happens by convening a general assembly, and by the same decision they say that they will convene the repeated assembly by the same day or the next day at the latest. [[19.50]] If that's the case with the executive chamber, then that doesn't make a real difference. Everyone knows that only a small percentage of the membership of a public body of this size attends the general assembly, even if it is the renewal assembly. Compared to all this, if you wish to decide on a ministerial recall, this means that a small percentage of the executive chamber can recall the chamber officer without justification if initiated by the ministerial commissioner. I do not understand why this should be introduced. We didn't hear about this in the expo, nor did the secretary of state tell us about it. What I cannot accept is that this is hidden behind a general justification, that transparency will be better served, and this margin will help the Minister's Commissioner to do his job properly. With these general reasons, I can't help myself. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State or the rapporteur what is the specific reason for this, what is the reason for it. Why should a small part of the membership be allowed to recall a chamber official, otherwise elected for a limited period of time, without any further reason, on the proposal of the Minister for Foreign Affairs? It doesn't require discipline, violation of law, or anything else. I would like to know how this will help the Chamber to clean up, how it will help to restore proper operation, why this measure is necessary at all. Since that is the essence of this proposal, and perhaps this is the most important element - as Mr President has pointed out precisely, and I agree with that - I would very much like to see a little more explanation given by the governing majority. With this draft text, we will not be able to support this proposal, as we said at the committee meeting and with our votes. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-03-31-177	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman György Rubovszky, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2015-03-31-178	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I'm going to try to distinguish between the KDNP executive and the Commission's presidential powers, but I'm going to predict that there will be overlaps. I didn't want to take the floor in the first place, but I would like to make a brief comment on the call back without justification. When a chamber official is elected by the majority, no one justifies why he chooses them, the majority vote has confidence. When a callback without justification is decided by an effective decision by the General Assembly, this decision involves a loss of confidence. They don't justify anything! I would like to give an example here: Did Péter Medgyessy justify his withdrawal? Or did Ferenc Gyurcsány justify it? [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: He resigned and was not called back!]] Wait a minute. They canceled it. Dear Parliament, On the issues raised, I would like to draw Mr Barándy's attention to one more thing. It's a terribly flawed practice, done by the Budapest Bar Association, that on the 28th at 8 p.m., and on the 31st at 8 p.m. That is why I said that I could accept as a realistic consequence that the repeated assembly would be called up for an inoperable assembly within eight days, but within 30 days. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: This is not part of this proposal!]] It's not in there. I don't dispute that. Unfortunately, the basic law, the law on executives, is 253. It's not even in the section. I have already indicated to the Secretary of State that, in the course of the debate, I have realised that there is such a deficiency here - and I will explain how I have come to know it - and I may propose to the committee; at the end of the detailed debate, when we close, we as the Justice Committee will have the opportunity to present an amendment. This is all the more suggested, because paragraph 2 of the bill we have entered states that the president should convene the assembly if the x percentage of the members so requests, if one fifth so requests, within 30 days. And it is also regulated by the bill that if the Minister's Commissioner identifies the cause and purpose, he may also convene an extraordinary assembly. But this is not the same as the repeated assembly. The Minister's Commissioner shall have the power to delegate to the extraordinary assembly. So it's a completely different category. The repeated assembly may be that if the general assembly is convened with the agenda of the renewal - because we are talking about this in terms of recall - and it is said that if it is not a decision, then it can be repeated after 8 days, within 30 days, but only in this circle. This is the repeated assembly. The extraordinary reason for which the Minister's Commissioner is empowered may be some discovered circumstance in his internal control that triggers this stimuli. I have listened with respect to the question of the powers of the Minister. It is a long-standing piece of legislation, and I do not wish to mention it now. The legislation that we are putting forward only covers the right of the Minister to convene an extraordinary assembly, which is all the more justified, because at the moment there is no Presidency of the Chamber. To make a law that gives you the right to do so for a month, and then that right vanished, I can't do it. I think if the executive chamber is going to come straight - and let us hope that a successful renewal will bring the public body to this result - then this whole ministerial commissioner thing can be forgotten. Thank you very much. In any case, I would like to announce that, with such possible amendments, the Christian Democrats are in favour of adopting the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-03-31-179	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, Jobbik Group, and say that I can give the floor to Mr Secretary of State after the speeches by the lead speaker, according to the house rules. Thank you very much for your understanding.
u2015-03-31-180	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I am trying to interpret the words of my fellow Member, Mr Rubosky, who said that with a certain amendment KDNP can accept it, while you tabled it as a KDNP representative. I'm sorry to start with this; just to understand it correctly, you said that you could accept the proposal with a certain amendment, although you are your referral as a KDNP representative. But this could be the subject of a next answer. I thought that if you, as a KDNP congressman, put this forward, KDNP would clearly be on your side. To the substance of this matter: we will support this proposal. There are small but important amendments to the proposal before us. I've been listening to Gergely Bárándy's arguments, and it's not my place to defend the government. We accuse them of not taking accountability seriously, nor are we able to see results regarding the accountability of executives. Let us hope that this will be different in the future. Now I feel that my fellow Member has been a bit delirious about the subject. [[20.00]] He was delirious because the question is, do we want a new implementation system? There's a debate between us and Fidesz on how to do this. Fidesz still believes in this system, which is yet to be outlined here, although I see that their trust and faith are running out every day. That's what we're happy about, and I'll tell you the truth, because we believe in the state system. We believe, and I must say this here, on this agenda too, that decisions must be taken in a non-profit manner, excluding profit and self-employed interests, or judicial judgments in Hungary. Just as the court, the prosecutor's office or even the police are not profit-oriented; just as no judge receives his salary in the same way as how many people he's put in prison, how many life sentences he's given, we are equally convinced that the execution of judgments should not depend on a person's financial position or how much it is worth collecting these demands. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Now let's think about the simple situation in which a verdict is born. Here, too, we can argue that, let's say, a large financial institution is suing a private individual, although there is not usually a lawsuit here, or, let's say, a notary request enforcement against a private individual, and, of course, there are many cases where the proceedings can be debated, and an individual is eliminated at the end of the case - but let's not look at this! Let's see two private individuals go to trial in court. There's a court order coming up, and X has to pay an amount to Y. Now, if the person who has to pay this amount, precisely because he has been lured out of that amount or has outstanding assets, no longer has enough money to carry out an execution, advance the execution fee or pay the enforcement fees in the first round, so that they can move the case from the court to the independent bailiffs, then this judgment will not be enforced. Even if there is a final judgment given by the court of the Hungarian State. And it's not right. It's not right. And there are many cases where we can see that the current system is not fair. It is certainly not good that some people often earn record income as private entrepreneurs. And here I could also say that there are areas, especially Budapest, the metropolitan areas, within Budapest, where it is very worthwhile to be executive, and there are places in the countryside where there may be less. That's not necessarily fair. We are convinced that the system must be fundamentally changed. It's just an extra thing we've seen here in the last few years and in the press, how often the system can function abusively. In many cases, not only because the relevant actors may not comply with the law, they look at their individual interests, but also because the legislation was not good, it was not good. There's a lot to list here. We have said it here several times in front of the public of the Parliament, and we cannot be accused of not keeping in mind the person asking for implementation, and against whom enforcement is sought, the common interest of the debtor is that there are cases where these two parties agree. The bank's gonna make a deal. He says, let's say, to the debtor, that you should pay an EKS amount and forget about the whole case. Let's say I let go of some of what you owe me. But if the implementation is already under way, there is no agreement until the enforcement fee and other costs are paid, the implementation costs are paid. Of course, there's a commission, there's everything. My colleague, Mr Vas, is perfectly aware of the cost, and he is very right that we can talk about a lot of costs here, commissions, all kinds of fees, but the point is that this will be adapted to the original claim. If the original claim was 20 million forints, but the bank says to pay 10 million forints, dear debtor, and forget each other, then the bailiff will say that the case will not be closed until I have received the right amount of money for me compared to 20 million forints, even if I have not done a meaningful job by then. This is not good, because from practice we know that in many cases this has prevented the two parties from reaching an agreement. So basically, the system, as I said, is not good, it needs to be changed. All we had to do was see what we saw about the chamber. We're very happy that there's been some kind of investigation, there could be a lot of other places to investigate, but at least this is where it's started. We also need to see it, and I can say this on the basis of the news published in the press - because there are news on kormany.hu, for example, the latest news, that the Ministry itself has filed a complaint about the cases at the Chamber, and of course we are waiting for developments in this, so we can see that, in addition to the legal struggle, a kind of political struggle has also begun. In the Chamber's current leadership, I am talking about not necessarily specific persons, but there are executives who felt that they had to fight the government politically. And I don't think that's right. Because we can have a professional legal debate, but a public body cannot aim to engage in political debates or political battles. I also told you here before the National Assembly, I did not receive any reassuring answers about Gergely Patyi's resignation as to why he had to leave. We have also heard press reports, unconfirmed news, that certain chamber leaders considered that they could have been involved in the news of his departure in the press. I don't know, but obviously, the whole thing's in front of the media. And in front of the media, there are also those in the Ministry's report that the Chamber has paid serious sums for its own appearance in good shape, for its reputation in the press as a public relations expense. Obviously, this also needs to be investigated by law enforcement to see if this was correct. We can see that the whole fight has gone to the press and public life, and I don't think that's right, because we should stick to the professional framework. Speaking of a public body, and there's been a lot of debate here, it's also been published in the press that it's public money, not public money, what's all this we're up against. Here in Parliament, I have repeatedly criticized the chamber's expense girl. It's an award that the bailiffs have to collect directly from the debtor. It is not, as in the case of the Bar Association, that lawyers pay the membership fee which they set for themselves; whether you like it or not, you can obviously make a decision that is less, more, but, in any case, the members pay it. In this case, the cost transfer is a fee that is levied from the debtor. From the worst, most miserable person in the world, who's often taken everything, he's got nothing. They shall collect directly from him a cost which must be spent on the operation of the Chamber, and the executioner concerned shall immediately refer it to it. This, I understand, came into the law as a transitional rule to create a background for the running chamber, but for some reason, what God gives, it's in there. And it wasn't temporary, it was a continuous rule. We hadn't been to Parliament at the time, and I don't have any information on how anyone has managed to keep this substantial amount, these significant revenues. It is also interesting to think that some kind of political lobby should be explained by the government that left the chamber's budget girl in the law at the time, since his status has changed and a temporary provision has become present. I would also like to suggest that we are pleased that there are investigations, and that the government is at least trying to make it look like it is or is increasingly trying to make it believe that it is really serious about accountability in this area, but that we should also pay attention to the activities of individual executives. [[20.10]] I would ask the Secretary of State to consider, for example, the proposals that we have sent to you, what we should consider, for example, the capacity to do so. I even offered our professional help in this case in case they were in need of resources. I wouldn't go into it now, because we have made a number of proposals on which points we ask you to examine compliance with the law, but the main question is what this system will become and how it will be transformed in the future. We continue to have the principle that a non-profit system should be established, that we are flexible in it. Earlier, we had a parliamentary resolution proposal, which was unfortunately rejected by the House or not supported by the majority of the Fidesz-KDNP, which was aimed at defining only the lines. It was nothing more than a non-profit system, a state system, but the way in which it is implemented can in fact be the subject of a professional debate, we are prepared to discuss it here in Parliament or in the background negotiations. We were also very pleased - to say the right word - that the Minister of Justice, as he appeared in the press, called for a five-party meeting, and this was, among other things, the subject. The Minister also said that, in addition to a number of topics, you - such as the system of judicial experts, the correction of the enforcement system - were serious, at least until the end of the term. However, we would like this not only to be achieved now, say, by replacing the executive faculty, perhaps by a nearby executive faculty of Fidesz, and that these revenues should come down there, but, as I said, we are interested in the transformation of the whole system and in a new system - I mean the stakeholders, standing on the side of the people and as parliamentary representatives - so that nobody is economically interested. I would also like to say at the end - it makes me wonder - that when this system was invented, the number, volume of implementations, the monetary value of cases were much lower. Unfortunately, the number of cases has also increased, with the number of new cases starting at around 500,000 a year - these are my last information - and unfortunately the value of cases has also increased. However, the number of executives remained, which means that revenues have increased, because they are proportionate, per cent linked to this in some ways; in some cases, they have increased enormously, so a full review is required. I very much hope that Fidesz will actually take this route, that we will also be very happy to go to further ministerial discussions, and that we will make our proposals. Let us start, we support these proposals, let the screening take place, and let this be the last point of this system, let us open a new system, let us move towards a better future. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-31-181	Good evening, everyone. We'll get back to work. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Répássy asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2015-03-31-182	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Only after Mr Barándy's speech did I feel that there was something here that I would like to inform this House. This thing is nothing more than the provisions of the Civil Code, its rules in force, namely the third book of the Civil Code 25. Sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Which includes cases of termination of the executive officer's mandate, namely in legal entities. The third book is 25. In accordance with paragraph 1 (c) of Article 2 (1) of the Act, the executive officer's term of office will be terminated by recalling it. And he says the third book is 25. Paragraph 2 of the Act is that:. Members of the legal person, in the case of a legal person without membership, the founders of the legal person may at any time, without justification, recall the executive officer. For example, even in the Hungarian Socialist Party, if the rules of the Civil Code have not been deviated from them; otherwise this is possible, but in the case of the public body there is at least an analogy. Congressman Bárándy said what a thing it is to recall officials without justification. The Civil Code makes this possible, so I do not think that there is any undemocratic illegal aspect in the fact that those who elected the official recall the senior officer by a similar majority, under similar rules, in a similar procedure. I'm telling you, this rule can be deviated, it's probably true, but that doesn't make it, how can I say, undemocratic, to withdraw trust from a senior official without justification. I note only in parentheses that the rule that a executive order can be withdrawn at any time without justification is long known in the civil service relationship, so there are examples in law of when a management mandate can be withdrawn, so I do not think it is worthwhile to do so. You may have another criticism of the Member, but I suggest that you reconsider your position on senior officials. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-31-183	Thank you. Here comes Mr. András Schiffer, lead speaker of the LMP. Here.
u2015-03-31-184	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Of course, we support the proposal itself, but what I see is that it remains a very small step. Back then, Richard Tarnai, on the part of KDNP, tabled a small-scale amendment in 2013, if I remember correctly, and LMP had already followed the view that the Chamber of Executives should be abolished as it is. The judicial enforcement system is for the purpose of enforcing the state's will. This brothel was not created by accident, the executive chamber system of 94 itself - recalling classics - is a sprain within the whole judicial system for several reasons. So, when it comes to the enforcement of the state's will, and this state's will is shown in a final judgment, what was the principle of breaking up with the regime, which, by the way, was during the first freely elected government cycle, that the enforcement system operated under the supervision of the courts? From the moment I do not submit the application, but the final judgment of the court is given, it is no longer simply a private matter how they enforce what is in the judicial judgment, because it is no longer simply my request as the plaintiff's request, but there is a final judgment, the judge, the state will ever make a judgment on behalf of the Republic. I can see that the series of abuses and scandals developed precisely because quite simply a foreign body is the public body within the system of justice, at least as far as the executive profession is concerned. That is why we would expect, and this is what this government has been looking for for for five years now, to make a comprehensive transformation, dare to engage in conflicts, even if there is now one mandate missing for two thirds - there was this opportunity in the first cycle - and to transform the whole system of independent judicial enforcement organisations, more precisely, to transform judicial enforcement, and to engage in this conflict. The fact is that if the executive chamber is loud with scandals, it does not just transfer to executive offices or private contractors; it also has to face the government and the Hungarian Parliament, that if the executive chamber is loud with scandals, if people see private entrepreneurs working for their own private benefit or not carrying out well or poorly final judicial judgments, then the whole justice system - if it pleases, in a more pathetic way - is a matter of trust in the rule of law, this is at stake. [[20.20]] For this reason, I see that the secondment of the Minister's Commissioner alone and this amendment are, of course, a welcome direction, but a very small step. And, of course, after five years in the system of national cynicism, we live with the suspicion lawsuit that, while the executive chamber is a failed institution, knowing the magical events that have taken place here with the liquidation register, it is not certain that the intention of restructuring itself is controlling the government. Rather, there may have been some deciphers around the Fidesz who have looked at this market for themselves. In any case, I would continue to urge the government to take a deep breath, to draw up a new law on judicial enforcement, to submit it to Parliament, and to eliminate this anomaly. Last but not least, when a civil action is brought, the levy is plotted in the first place, the scope is defined according to the legislation in force when a person can apply for a personal tax exemption, a right to register a levy or, in which cases, a person may be entitled to a fixed levy. But, in itself, I'm sorry, it's absurd that if, in an average civil suit, when I file an action, I root down the levy, win the lawsuit, then, if there is no voluntary performance, I can also advance extra costs, and whether the prepayment costs come back at all depends on the ability and conscience of a private contractor, on the one hand, it is an incredibly unfair system, in general, but on the other, that the need to advance the implementation cost to private contractors in particular will further reduce the freedom of equal access to the law in Hungary. We need justice in Hungary so that people can have equal access to justice, not only to judicial forums, but also to the money and wealth that a final judicial judgment will give them. This is not what the current implementation system does. It was just the foreign exchange crisis, and I think it is an alert to decision-makers, the government and the parliament, the scandals surrounding the foreign exchange crisis have been mostly concentrated around the executives, which should make us all aware that this system needs to be fundamentally changed. In view of the fact that the devil is not sleeping, because of course we have seen how the system of national cynicism works, we will submit some amendments to this proposal as collateral. On the one hand, we would suggest that the ministerial commissioner should be able to convene the extraordinary assembly and board meeting, not in any way, but in the event of the failure of the chamber body, indicating the cause and purpose. I think that this is the amount of framework that needs to be provided to the Minister's Commissioner. Of course, there is a new situation when there is no such chamber system anymore. As long as there is a chamber system, the ministerial commissioner should act in a regulated form in the interest of a public body. It is also a guarantee that, as long as there is this system of chambers, the nomination will take place in the Chamber elections with a secret recommendation and within the framework of the General Assembly. Again, this is a guarantee that - as far as we can talk about it here, but - the candidature and the election should take place without interference. With each such proposal, I must, of course, add that this is obviously necessary as long as this public body system lives in this profession. But while there is a public body system, we need clear, regulated frameworks, just because if Mr Rubovszky here referred to the bar of attorneys - and obviously we can even bring up other public bodies in the professions where it is right that there is a chamber, a public authority - it is also a common problem that certain procedural rules are rather magnified, arbitrary, and that can lead to abuse by either the state or a well-organized minority. What we consider to be very important - and especially in view of the legislative changes in the past period, so that the legislator has now classified the judicial enforcement profession as one of the legal professions - we will propose in an amending proposal that, as long as the Chamber exists, professional supervision can only be filled by people with legal qualifications. So the only people who can be leaders in the Chamber are those who have legal qualifications, as long as they have this bar system. Excuse me, but once the legislator has taken the liberty of imposing a higher professional requirement and there is a professional self-administration, it is logical that the leaders of this self-government should be in possession of the required qualifications. We will put forward, in particular with regard to the scandals of the past period, especially in the currency crisis, rules requiring the integrity of executives. So that no one to whom criminal liability has been established, or who has been punished, can serve as a chamber. I think that it is precisely essential to impose appropriate professional and integrity rules in the current situation. Once again, I can only repeat that every drop of mistrust in the judicial enforcement system is a loss of trust in justice. This cannot be risked, which is why I think that strengthening integrity and professional requirements for chamber officials is the most fundamental step that the legislator must take today. So that is why we ask the Government, Mr Secretary of State, and the rapporteur, Mr Rubovszky, to consider our amendments, and I can only continue to encourage the Government to take much bolder steps and much faster. They delayed for five years, watched for five years the circus in Hungary under the title of the Chamber of Executives of the Court. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-31-185	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There is no independent Member in the Chamber; a two-minute circle would come, but fortunately no one asked for a word for two minutes. So we continue our work with normal people. First, Congressman György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2015-03-31-186	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to continue with Gábor Staudt's thought process. He has said, in law and in various aspects, why it would be good for us to put him under public administration, involve judicial enforcement in the state system, and why that would be a positive thing. Let me try to get a different angle. I think the main goal of all governments and states should be for people to turn to them with confidence. Unfortunately, there are several branches in Hungary where public confidence should be restored, we can talk about a lot of things from the police station. There is only one branch, by the way, that enjoys people's trust to this day, and this is the courts. People think, even if sometimes they feel that there is something to blame in court judgments, that it does not always cover and cover their sense of justice, regardless of whether a court makes a judgment, it is usually accepted by people. And that's how it happens when we talk about court execution; these people are confronted with a court judgment that they accept, and then the enforcer who tries to handle the whole thing from here on out will appear. And what I'd like to talk about is the human, spiritual and emotional side of this whole process. After all, it is not just numbers, it is not just money, and it is not just whether this money is considered fair or not, but they feel that the state is obliging them to do so, and they are trying to do so. [[20.30]] When faced with or faced with the procedure of court execution, I do not know if you have been involved in this, but there are scandalous conditions. And it is not just about the bailiff himself, it is about the employees of those people, the people who come into contact with these Hungarian citizens. If someone goes in, let's say, on their own initiative, into an office like this and wants to pay the money that the court ordered him to pay, then not only comes out with that much less money, but also in this place, in his human nature, those who are in there are humiliated. They humiliate those people in their human nature because they talk to them like they're talking to them, and these people feel when they're inside that it's the state arrogance they're facing. So in the same way, when they come out of there, they're angry at the government, they're angry at the state, and they're angry at everyone, because it's not enough that they had to pay right now, but they're meeting with an arrogant style, people who humiliate them. I don't think that's good for any government. I do not think that this is good for the state's judgment, which is why it would be important to have these judicial executions under state control, under the auspices of the state, and that if someone is not fit to try to deal with people normally, then this can be done against. There would be a state control over this whole thing, as it undermines the whole system of justice, undermining the authority of the entire justice system is that if people in this justice system, which is considered to belong to the state, encounters such negative events, they face such negative events. So I don't think it's in your best interest to continue to maintain this system, I don't think anything is worth it that when people go in and face, say, judicial execution, they have to operate in this system, or they have to face such a system. And speaking of trust, no one trusts the bailiffs, by the way. If you go in and look at the employees - respect for the exception, by the way - anyone who goes in here feels like they're facing a state mafia agency who can do anything to him, whatever his rights and authority are, about the people they're doing the procedure with. So I would like to ask you, just as Gábor Staudt said, to consider remodeling the entire system. Let us fully involve it in the administration of the state and make it a truly non-profit system, and not only should it be intended to execute these court judgments and collect these funds, but also to do so in such a way that the citizen does not suffer any other harm, because in these court execution procedures, there are many other harms to citizens who face it. So please consider this part. That is why I would also like to suggest that Jobbik's position be taken over, and perhaps we should change the whole system and continue to operate under the auspices of the state. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-31-187	Thank you very much. This is Congressman Gergely Bárándy, MSZP.
u2015-03-31-188	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Basically, I asked for the floor because Secretary of State Répássy read to me a quote from the law or perhaps from two laws. What I can tell you, Mr Secretary of State, is that, yes, this may be included in the law, otherwise it is the legislation that has been passed during your period in both cases, and we have also spoken against this being a bad practice. So, Congressman, this does not mean that the law should not be followed, but I say that it should not be introduced in the area where it is not yet. I think that's an understandable difference. So I'm not going against the law, I'm saying that when that law was passed, whatever you're talking about, we didn't agree with it. We also disagree with the fact that civil servants can be dismissed without justification. I note that on this subject, the Constitutional Court has already taken a decision that has not been favourable to you. I mean, I think that with dismissal or recall without justification, as an option, we still don't need our faction to agree because you have made two laws in which this is otherwise included. The second is that it is not only a matter of the public body recalling its leader without justification, but that it can do so on the motion of the Minister's Commissioner. And that's another problem. So I think that if you understand and interpret in this way what I said in my previous speech, then you will understand and interpret it correctly. The other reason I asked for a word is that I would like to indicate that I made the mistake of accidentally talking about the text of the legislation and the content of the legislation, not about anyone else in general. All the other factions did that. I'm not gonna do any different now, I mean, all the other factions were talking about the problem in general. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: You too!]] Not me, fellow Members. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: You were talking about the government.]] Therefore, I think it is necessary to confirm it before anyone misunderstands that, first of all, we do not consider the current regulation to be good and not to be appropriate, either with respect to its implementation or with its summary - I said a few words about it - or with the structure. I would also like to put it on the table by referring back to what we consider to be chaotic and abusive in a previous debate, in the basic debate - if you will - my fellow Member, Tamás Harangozó, said that the system that we have today is chaotic and abusive. That is why we believe that the government should finally decide that it wants to look at this area as part of the public sphere and regulate it as part of the private sector. The exact problem with the current structure, my fellow Members, is that it is neither. Nor is it part of the private sector, because it has been placed under the supervision of a ministerial commissioner with such a wide power as I said in my previous speech, nor is it part of the public sphere, because there is still, if you will, private executives and, of course, the executive chamber. This hybrid solution you've just set up and created, I think it's useless. The solution would be to put in place system-wide, structurally, and not only at systemic and structural level, but also comprehensively, to review the system in all areas of implementation, and to develop a new, much better functioning legislative environment and system. What you're doing right now is a substitute act. And this is how I turn back to talk about the subject and not to make the mistake that my fellow Members have made, that whittling this hybrid solution, like with a current law, I think it will not lead to a good result. Ladies and gentlemen, So I think it would be right if, on this serious issue, a relatively broad professional, and I would also like to put it on the table, that, after political consultation, which I included in the opposition parties first of all, we would develop a system-wide and structurally new system that could finally prevent abusive and chaotic practices. This would be our proposal, not the whittling of this bad hybrid system. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-31-189	Thank you. Z. Carpathian Congressman Daniel, Jobbik, in two minutes.
u2015-03-31-190	Mr President, Dear House, I do not wish to repeat the thoughts of Gábor Staudt in his speech, but he did not overextend this very narrow amendment, but analyzed the problem in a very wide spectrum before us. Again, we are faced with the fact that the government cannot or does not want to answer basic questions. I trust the Secretary of State Répássy to respond now to what he thinks of the whole system, the whole system being subject to state control, because here is the basic question that we should be able to answer, when, along what guarantee system, the unwarranted protection of people will cease for the sake of an example. I got two phones this week from Beechsey, where a single, three-year-old family mother is constantly being exterminated, by the way, former execs, now the people of a factoring company. What I would like to see as a guarantee is that Hungarian citizens, especially workers, cannot be taken out at work, can not be taken out at night, can not be taken out by family members. [[20.40]] It should have consequences if something like this happens and there is a system of institutions that can be turned to for help in a similar case. We could go further on the basis that some executives draw 33 or 50 percent of the income of Hungarian people, decent workers or people trying to work, without remaining after it to cover the most basic needs, while no one checks whether this implementation process is justified. There have been countless similar lawsuits, countless disputes along these matters, but I find it quite amazing that, although this two-thirds government has been ruling in its second term for almost a year now, we do not see the answers to these most pressing questions. I would therefore ask you to resolve these ferocious contradictions, because without this they are simply cosmeticizing a system that we believe should be subject to state control immediately. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-31-191	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] He doesn't want to. The general debate is closed as no one has made any further comments. I will ask the rapporteur, Mr President, if he wishes to reply. [[For signal:]] I wish. Congressman György Rubovszky has the floor. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2015-03-31-192	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am in an easy position because a total of four of the speeches have proved that they have even read the bill that is the subject. The Jobbik proved he didn't read it. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: I read it! I read it!]] 'Cause he didn't refer to what was in the bill by any chance, it was a general misconception. I also said in the expozee that two members of the committee at the time voted in favour of this bill [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: We didn't say that, but if we accept the amendments, KDNP supports it.]] So it was all there, but it wasn't about the bill. With all due respect, Congressman Bárándy, you say that the Minister's Commissioner will propose a recall. It is the law that dictates the powers of the Minister's Commissioner. If appropriate, it may convene the general meeting, but the agenda of the general meeting shall be adopted by the general meeting. Basically, the majority will has to be achieved somehow by the Commissioner in order for his action to be effective. This is, however, a certain respect for democratic order. With all due respect, more criticism, because with Congressman Barándy, which Congressman Staudt was witty... - although I didn't hear, unfortunately, because we were arguing, because now that he's a committee member, he's obviously going to tell us what the wit on which he laughed was, the others didn't hear, but that's what it is. With all due respect, I am asking that we receive the amendments, but I will also have a clarification, as I mentioned in my speech, that the committee be put forward if the committee votes to settle this, the repeated assembly rules, but not as a Christian Democrat, but as a committee on justice. Congressman Staudt is not listening right now, and he's going to think that KDNP has put him up to speed. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: What?]] And this was presented by the Justice Committee. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you for your speeches and for your improved intentions. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-31-193	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The amendments will be submitted, and I will inform you that Thursday will be at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, It follows a general debate on the Convention on the establishment of the International Investment Bank in Moscow, signed on 10 July 1970, as amended on 20 December 1990, and the Statutes attached to the Convention, as well as the Protocol amending them, as well as the draft law on the publication of notifications to become States Parties to the Protocol, until closure. The submission is T/4034. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, Minister of State of the Ministry of National Economy, author of the item on the agenda. Mr. Secretary.
u2015-03-31-194	Mr President, Dear House, The purpose of the bill before you is to ensure the renewal of Hungary's membership in the International Investment Bank in accordance with the provisions of Act L of 2005 on the procedure for international contracts. To this end, the bill provides for the establishment of the 1990 Convention on the Establishment of the International Investment Bank and the Statutes attached to the Convention, as well as for the publication of the 2014 Protocol on their amendment and the notifications from the Hungarian part necessary for it to become a Party State to the Protocol. At the same time as the announcement, the Convention on the Establishment of the International Investment Bank signed in 1970 and Decree-Law No 7 of 1971 on the publication of the Statutes attached to the Convention shall be repealed. The bill also provides that the provisions of the amended Convention of 1990 and the Articles of Association attached thereto shall remain in force until the Protocol of 8 May 2014 amending them enters into force in international law. Dear Parliament, Hungary joins an international financial institution whose governance system and decision-making mechanism have now been fully adapted to today's best practice of international financial institutions by publishing a radically new intergovernmental agreement over the past two years. The international nature of the International Investment Bank, the international recognition of its progress in modernising it, is also well indicated by the fact that over the past year two international credit rating companies have given the Bank a credit rating recommended for investment. The International Investment Bank considers its main mission to contribute to the economic and social development of the Member States, in which it puts support for small and medium-sized enterprises in the Member States at the heart of its activities, it intends to contribute to the financing of Member States' national economic development programmes, the implementation of their joint cross-border projects and the promotion of their trade relations. Our relations with the International Investment Bank are expected to complement our current relations with other international financial institutions in the area of proactive support for economic and trade cooperation between Member States. Our membership provides an opportunity to raise funds under better conditions than international financial markets, thus facilitating the financing of domestic investments and improving the conditions for accessing the export market. The renewal of Hungary's membership in the International Investment Bank is well suited to the goals of Hungarian economic policy, allowing us to reactivate our share capital in 2015 and 2016 in two equal instalments, with the current value of EUR 20 million. Dear Parliament, Based on what has been said, it is clear that the renewal of Hungary's membership in the International Investment Bank contributes effectively to the development of the Hungarian national economy and to the diversification of our international financial relations. We ask you to be kind enough to discuss and support the bill that has been tabled. Thank you.
u2015-03-31-195	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Since no one from the Fidesz faction wishes to comment now, I give the floor to Márta Demeter, the congresswoman, the lead speaker of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2015-03-31-196	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary was one of the founding members of the Moscow-based International Investment Bank established in 1970 and registered in the United Nations in the territory of the Member States. Our legal relationship was terminated on 15 December 2000 following the lack of effective and transparent activity of the bank and the lack of realistic prospects for its reform and modernisation. In 2014, Hungary re-submitted its application, as a multifaceted intergovernmental protocol aimed at clarifying the agreement on the establishment and statutes of the bank was completed, reorganizing the operation and management of the bank according to international standards. [[20.50]] On 15 October 2014, Mihály Varga and the President of the International Investment Bank signed a Memorandum of Understanding on legal and financial conditions for the renewal of Hungary's membership of the International Investment Bank. The official Hungarian request was submitted on the basis of a government mandate, taking into account the Memorandum of Understanding. At its meeting in Sofia on 20 and 21 October 2014, the Council of the Bank supported the renewal of Hungary's membership of the International Investment Bank. The International Investment Bank was the bank of the economic community of socialist countries, KGST. It was founded in 1970 by the Hungarian People's Republic with the GDR, Czechoslovakia, Poland, Bulgaria, Mongolia and the Soviet Union. According to the Legislative Decree on the establishment of the Bank, which is still in force today, it is essential to support the plan economy based on international socialist division of labour. According to the national economy portfolio, the activities of the International Investment Bank have changed radically in line with modern international standards over the past two years, so its objectives are already in line with the ideas developed for the development of the Hungarian national economy, and we do not need to stress that they are also in line with the policy of Eastern opening. By the end of June this year, Hungary will have to pay the contribution of EUR 20 million to the capital of the International Investment Bank. After the Hungarian deposit, the share of Russian participation in the core capital is reduced to 48-49 percent from the current 55 percent. The capital of the Moscow-based bank is 15.5 percent in Bulgaria, 11.1 percent in the Czech Republic, 7.9 percent in Slovakia, 6.8 percent in Romania, 2 percent in Cuba, 1.3 percent in Vietnam and 0.4 percent in Mongolia. It is worth reminding here that the Orbán government concluded the loan agreement with the International Monetary Fund in 2013, with which it conducted a three-year freedom fight and celebrated as a victory that it paid off the last installment of the loan, newspapers, outdoor billboards - we remember, I'm sure - that the government had gotten rid of the IMF. So the question arises whether this proposal and ambition contained in the bill is in the real national interest, or whether it is again the fidesz, narrow group interest that is constantly being lied to by Hungarian national interests. The answer we think is very clear. The MSZP does not support the adoption of the bill. Thank you for the floor.
u2015-03-31-197	Thank you very much. Mr Dániel Z. Karpat, lead speaker of Jobbik, is next. Here you go.
u2015-03-31-198	Mr President, Dear House, I am not saying that I stand here in this debate, because Jobbik's faction has experienced one and another, but it is that, in the case of such a far-reaching bill, not only Fidesz, but KDNP doesn't set up a lead speaker, and as I see it, everyone has two representatives in the room. [[Happy Stephen: Three, but never mind.]] It's a face toaster, not for us. We have a very serious proposal ahead of us. The press reports and the comments of the MSZP broadly coincide in this regard, so we have read a lot of articles that have led the IMF away from the government and are now approaching the KGST bank. There's some truth to that, but it's not that simple. For my part, I was able to welcome the launch of the IMF - although obviously we could argue a lot about this methodology, and also about why those responsible did not get on the bench of the defendants about the amazing damage they had done to Hungary - but we could and should argue about the KGST bank at the same time. It would be welcome to recognise that our international financial relations are being diversified - in a nice and non-Hungarian word - but in any case widened, but we can only see that it was precisely the Fidesz-KDNP government, the then Fidesz-KDNP-FKGP government, which, in 2000, had a virtually opposite course of action than it is preparing for. Realization, by the way, would have been nice. It would have been nice to lay it down in the explanatory statement. It is particularly important that we are now discussing an investment bank that could involve development resources on a business basis, one that is not dependent on the EU or the United States of America, so it could be done on paper that Hungary really chooses from wider opportunities. In addition, we are talking about markets with which we had a good relationship before, and although it may be that Jobbik's faction in this room is the furthest of all that relates to the so-called communist regime - let us just think of our proposals on the lurking of communist luxuries - but it must be said that Hungary has built these old relationships with a very bad view over the last decades, and that our lack of substantial relations with our former markets is only trying to move towards a so-called Eastern opening of the government, I say once again, to do very weak experiments, it calls for action. It would also be important for people to be placed on the Board of Governors, the Board of Directors, the Executive Board and even the Supervisory Board of the NBB, not on a friendly basis, but on professionals with adequate preparedness and innovation skills, so to speak, whether they are better or not, but not Jobbik is still in the government. [[Happy Stephen: There won't be!]] And let us not advance this until the voters do so; I say this to the pro-government representative. But our goal now may be to see, in the opinion of the proposal before us, not good friends, but prepared professionals, if we get there. And the goal. What is the most important objective for such diversification? The fact that public investments, not only public investments, but mainly businesses and Hungarian businesses, are able to obtain funds, because we can see that Western capital, which has been established here, has always financed and financed itself very comfortably through its own banking system, in contrast to domestics, which has led us to a continuous competitive disadvantage in our own national economy market for the last two and a half decades. This must be mitigated. But we also need to see that what lies ahead of us, and what is related to it, is still in force, where the name of the Hungarian People's Republic is still mentioned, so one or two of these very funny formulas remained in this system; obviously this would require reflection. But we also need to see that there is a further way to Hungary, so it is not necessarily just this and not only this. The latest news reports also show that Germany, France and Italy are asking for the membership of the founding members of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank initiated by China, and that a financial institution starting with 50 billion USD of capital will move markets and allow access to markets that might offer serious opportunities for our country as well. So we cannot say that the papery one in front of us is the only one, and it can move in the only right direction, we can say that this is at least possible, but this can only happen if the government is not only thinking about what investment bank and how to contact, not only is it thinking about opening up markets and starting up old alliances or finding new ones, but also about building the back country that is needed for this. And if this government was very weak at something, we can say that it is pathetically weak, it is precisely the construction of this hinterland. If we look only at the experiments in agriculture and agriculture, then we see that Eastern opening here, market opening experiments there, inauguration of trading houses there, failed to achieve that the Hungarian production volume, the independent domestic production capacity at least close to the old level, should start to return, so we should actually have something to take to the external market. So they have tried and tried to build relationships, but to increase volume, which can be transferred to the external market, and to make Hungary really profit from this, it has not changed at all, and neither has the fact that the unilateral dependence on the western side of the economy weighs on part of the economy, but assembly plants will continue to exist, if investments are made, more than 90 percent of the investments will not be made with Hungarian money, perhaps with our distributed EU money, and we also need to see that, in contrast, we have different dependences, just think about energy. So this government is facing huge challenges in the construction of the hinterland, and then we expressed ourselves very lightly. Once again, I must stress that the direction to which you want to start could be good, but there is clearly no justification for this, and in itself you expect success from joining an organization at least an idealistic idea, and we have to say there are solutions, but without strengthening the hinterland, it can only be treated as a weak experiment. Without eliminating the errors I have mentioned, it is not certain that this proposal is as good as the only author and conductor thinks it is. Unfortunately, his words could not be confirmed from any direction, since the benches of Fidesz-KDNP are practically empty. Unfortunately, we've gotten used to this in major debates, but the fact that they don't even put up a lead speaker is quite outspoken and can be treated as a quite exceptional slendrian, and also a message to voters, even in the context of the Tapolca campaign, is that unfortunately, a week or two before such major events, this government does not take its own work so seriously. In this spirit, therefore, we had to share our views on the bill, which we did respectfully. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[21.00]]
u2015-03-31-199	Thank you very much, Congressman. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[György Szilágyi reporting.]] Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2015-03-31-200	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Perhaps the reason why so few people are in the benches of Fidesz is because they may have felt the situation in Faramuc, which we have witnessed, is that by making a well-thought-out decision, you have been able to achieve the result that the Hungarian Socialist Party is framing you with what purpose this bank may have, and what words are included, let us say, in its statutes. The bill on our re-accession to the International Investment Bank is an interesting example of changes in your world vision, or, if I think about the MSZP speech, perhaps the non-changes that have become accustomed to the old past, when it was good for you to belong to the socialist system in which one or two of your Members were involved at the time, and not just sitting here in Parliament. But in 2000, you were the ones who left the bank in question, founded in 1970, on the grounds that the operation of the organization is not sufficiently transparent for us, so it is not sufficiently transparent for you. Unfortunately, there was no settlement between the parties at the same time as the exit, so the country did not get a penny back from what it had paid in any title. It is very important that you have said that it is not transparent, which is why you want to quit. In 2000, that's what we're talking about. Right now, you want to rejoin the same organization, the operation of which now leaves no blame for you. The problem is that if you look at it, take the trouble and look at the basic rules of the bank, the tasks and powers of the internal departments included in it, as well as the mechanisms for monitoring its operation, you can see that there is no substantial difference between the previous and the current written rules. So nothing's changed. I can only trust that you have additional information on the basis of which your present proposal has been presented. Unfortunately, the reasons do not show these convincing arguments, they have not said or written anything that would convince you that the International Investment Bank has indeed undergone a huge change here, and that from now on it has created an environment that has changed the operation of the bank, it has become so transparent that you would like to go back now and still want to establish a membership relationship. However, the most important question for me in relation to the restoration of the membership relationship is that if our original members' contributions are not accounted for at the time of exit and are reactivated at the time of entry, then exactly how much share Hungary will now have in this organization. There were numbers, but I'm not sure that's true. How can any amount be determined, on what basis, if the proposal indicates that the exit was due to the lack of transparent finance and accounting? So how did you manage to do that if the finances were opaque, if there was no accounting, then how did you manage to do that now? The main deficiency in the justification of the proposal is, in my view, that it does not provide any tangible justification or quantifiable data on the reasons for rejoining the bank. Of course, we have no chance, in my opinion, at this moment, of getting answers from you, because, as Daniel Z. Carpathian said, there are two sitting in the benches. I wish I was disappointed, but I do not think that Mr Happy will comment, and Mr Secretary of State has been given this task, and I do not think that he is very able to tell us the things that we would expect answers to. Because we would also like to find out what success the bank can have between 2000 and 2015, which made it necessary to join. So we would like to receive any data, any number, any argument as to what has changed during this 15-year period, what has changed so much that you would like to join us now. Mr Secretary of State has just said in the expozee, one of the main arguments was, if I understand correctly, that he has already received the investment rating from two rating agents. And that's why we're entering! I just don't know if two years from now, the same two guys are gonna downgrade the bank, and we're gonna quit again? So that's what we're making him dependent on, is that a big argument? The statutes are almost the same, its operational mechanisms, the control mechanisms of the same bank as they were in 2000, and yet you believe that we must enter. Dániel Z. Carpathian explained what other paths would otherwise be. So we would like an answer, and I would like once again to ask the sole Secretary of State to answer me, kindly, what are the main arguments that have changed during these 15 years, and which is why you say that you now have a calm heart to recommend it, that there will be clean conditions, clear situations, that Hungary can enter in completely normal conditions, with a normal settlement and a normal construction. I'd like those answers. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-03-31-201	Mr. Dániel Z. Carpathian, Mr. Jobbik. Here.
u2015-03-31-202	Mr President, Dear House, Our oath was to try to provoke the answers even if no one wants to provide them for us. The Secretary of State would still be captivated to take part in a debate while preserving Parliament's dignity, for example, to answer the very important questions that we have just said. However, I would like to state what the position of the Jobbik faction will be, and I will do so very briefly. And the reason I'm doing it briefly is because it's also a kind of confession that the government has given us. The draft, the plan of the current step, also means that the loan programme linked to the Hungarian National Bank does not, to say the least, work as planned. We could say that now his ad for this has disappeared, and we have no idea how much of the $6 billion budget and where they have spent, because there is no supervisory board of this institution that could control this amazing spending. But we need to see that a fraction of the planned HUF 2000 billion loan has been put out last year, even in spite of the big commercials. We have also seen that, in the case of the so-called microcredit scheme, only medium-sized girls of multinational companies have received funds or a few lucky businesses, but it cannot be said that most Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises or clusters could have been placed in the position. What you can see is once again that even though there have been attempts to open up the so-called trading houses, it has not worked either, since there is essentially no independent Hungarian product that can be sold, and the foreign multinationals here obviously did not use such a type of market networking. It clearly follows that we need a new industrial development strategy because money, capital are available and surprisingly cheap money is also available. However, there is no meaningful vision, since we should select at least a few strategic product groups or technologies and make Hungarian companies at least the most advanced in the region. Then, with the involvement of investment loans, it is clear that what and how this could be put on the market could be considered. Apparently, this process has now been reversed, as market access is being forced in several directions, otherwise these efforts are right, but they cannot fill it with content without a hinterland. In the context of this motion and the present proposal, we can say that through this, if you do well, so I say once again, if you would give us answers to the questions that have been raised, but we are talking about empty benches now, we would find a better way through them to the four Member States of the Eurasian Union, and we could approach them, because, obviously, with regard to Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Armenia, we could also take steps to strengthen the economy and common economic relations, a lot of them. We can also say that, although NBB is based in Moscow, the central bank of the Eurasian Union is located in Almati, so that we can also build good relations with this central bank, we should not depend on its European investments at all costs. [[21.10]] But what we see is that, in terms of capital movements in Hungary, Western European overweight is still amazing, and we can also see, once again, I say it many times, and I will often say that I cannot do it without a hinterland. So if this unilateral economic dependence on the West is to be maintained by the government, it will do nothing about it, then what is ahead of us is either a framework that can be voted on or cannot be voted on, but it is by no means a solution. If your goals were clear and thought-out, then the reason would be why you want this whole thing or would be included, let us say, in such a way that we not only open an office here in Hungary, but we should also set up a consulting office, a business preparation, market and business planning capacity, or serve Hungarian entrepreneurs in this regard, but we cannot see a single word about it. So your declaration of intent, your presentation, will be credible from the moment we see a thoughtful concept about it, and, let's say, we add that the state banks here, let's say, the Hungarian Foreign Trade Bank, can be associated with commercial financing for the investment service. But until these plans are seen, they're gonna put the usual blank blank cheques in front of us, which are expected to be signed. It is clear that the vote on this can only be made dependent on whether these obscurities will be resolved by someone or whether we will continue to talk to empty benches on such a particular issue. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2015-03-31-203	Thank you very much. I'm going to ask you again if there's anyone else you'd like to tell me. [[There's no candidate.]] No. Dear Parliament, As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Secretary of State, as rapporteur, if he wishes to react. [[On the mark of András Tállai:]] Yes, the floor is yours.
u2015-03-31-204	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Indeed, the debate is interesting, since there was no pro-government speech, the more I trust that when the bill has to be voted, then the pro-government representatives will be here to support it, but all the opposition parties did not consider it right or worthy to speak to the bill, not to mention the independent Members. Thank you very much for your opinion. The opinion of the Hungarian Socialist Party is clear. At least they said that obviously because Fidesz is ruling, they don't support our re-entry to the bank, which, by the way, their predecessors back in 1970 supported and considered to be good. Now, in 2015, they see that this is not right on the part of Hungary. Somehow I recall the thoughts that Ferenc Gyurcsány said about President Putin, that when he was in Hungary and received it in his apartment, it was still a good Putin, but now that Viktor Orbán was negotiating with Prime Minister, this is no good, this is bad Putin. That's how the MSZP is going about this right now. Of course, I also thank Jobbik for his opinion, although it didn't turn out that they were in favour or not in favour of the proposal. It will be interesting on their closest trip to Russia when they ask why they do not support a proposal by the government of Hungary, which is essentially the existing bank with dominant ownership in Russia, which wants to open up in Europe [[György Szilágyi: We are not committed to any bank!]] why they couldn't do it. But that's your job, because, after all, they didn't give a clear opinion to support it or not to support it. [[György Szilágyi: No, because we expect an answer.]] You have to listen to the expo, you have to read the general explanation, which is in favour of the bill, and every question could be answered by Jobbik. It is clear that this is a positive decision for Hungary, because, in addition to the fact that the country has access to new credit opportunities and fundraising opportunities, the relationship with the countries that are members of the European Union and who are part of the bank can obviously strengthen Hungary's relationship with the countries that are members of the European Union. The restructuring and restructuring of the bank are also supported by regional banks. I'm only going to highlight one, the EBRD. I think that this is enough recognition of this International Investment Bank to be able to become stronger and fulfil its determined role in the region, Europe. I hope that Jobbik will consider the speeches and opinions that have been said and will support the bill in the final vote, and that in the majority of Parliament, we trust its votes on behalf of the government. Thank you very much. [[Happy Stephen applauds.]]
u2015-03-31-205	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2014 CII on the banning of work in the retail sector on Sunday. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission is T/4037. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2015-03-31-206	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The opening of the shops is currently covered by CLXIV 2005 on trade. Act CII of 2014 on the prohibition of work in the retail sector and its implementing regulation. It's regulated by law. By adopting this latter law, Parliament has declared its will that trade as a determining sector of the national economy must always operate within a reasonable framework and that trade must help to preserve the physical and psychological health of workers and ensure adequate rest. The Parliament also declared its will to strike a balance between the freedom to engage in commercial activities and the interests of those working on Sunday or public holidays. Thus, if the interests of freedom of trade and the interests of the most important building block of Hungarian society, the family, are in conflict with the protection of the family, then the preservation of family communities must be strengthened. Dear Parliament, In the case of this law, it was particularly justified to define the scope of the exceptions in detail. On the one hand, the legislation did not extend the scope of the law to certain establishments, activities, such as pharmacies, commercial activities at fairs, catering, and certain activities - newspaper, florist, baker - and those performing these activities received special provisions. On the other hand, it has also created the possibility for the government to provide for exceptions in a specific procedure. At the same time, during the period between the adoption and the entry into force of the Act on the Prohibition of Work in the Retail Sector, the Government continued to monitor and consider the comments, opinions and suggestions received. The government is determined to find the right proportion of debate, agreement, agreement and action, thus seeking more consultation, consultation and, as a result, agreement. On the basis of the above, the Government proposes to extend the ban on Sunday work to world heritage areas in the legislative proposal on the subject, as well as to transfer text points to the law. Dear House, On the basis of the comments received, it was therefore concluded that the text of the law cannot, on a principle basis, distinguish between shops located in the world heritage area and in the non-world heritage area from the prohibition of working on Sundays. The Government has studied the comments received and considers that one and the same conditions should be provided for retail workers, both for world heritage and for non-world heritage workers. The law therefore further provides for grammatical clarification and clarification of the provisions authorising it. Thank you very much for your attention. Please discuss the law and then vote for it. Thank you.
u2015-03-31-207	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. I would like to inform you that Fidesz does not wish to take part in this debate, so I give the floor to Nándor Gúr, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman. [[21.20]]
u2015-03-31-208	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, The story behind our backs is very bitter. In the introductory thoughts, you referred to reconciliation, understanding, co-thinking, co-operation, and many other things, for which you have not even been familiar with the use of words for five years. But they still know all this in words, because it seems to me that they are very far from it on the scene of action. He claimed that this amendment must now be made because they are faced with this type of opinion. You know, I'm facing a lot of conflicting opinions. In this way, it seems to me that even here within the walls of Parliament, the Secretary of State and other members of the government are unable to hear what other Members understand and interpret to you practically every day when they meet people. You're just talking about negotiations. This is also the case with regard to interest representatives: they want to agree to dictate. The basic problem is that you're arrogant, you think you can do anything with strength, and that might even lead to good, you think. No! No, the act of strength, pride will come back to bites. Sooner or later, it brings with it - I do not want to use ugly and harsh words - that the political line of action you represent hates people and turns away from you. They're gonna turn around and believe me, it's gonna take them a long time to look back at you. But to talk about the bill itself: before I talk about the changes in world heritage sites, I would like to summarize, for a few thoughts, what you have been doing in the last few months. What they have done is that they have made legal changes to trade where half a million people do their work, that, unfortunately, tens of thousands of these people are in the process of fear of losing their jobs. Even if Péter Harrach, along with the State Secretary András Tállai, sings the song that no, no, never, will not end, you know, will end, because that's how life works, if the measures affect this direction, then employers will deduct the consequences of this. On the one hand, putting jobs in jeopardy is what you are bringing to life. The other part is obviously that they also have to face certain reductions in salaries, because in 2012, you gave birth to an obscenity called the Labour Code, which - remember, or if you cannot remember - I will help you remember - the afternoon allowance has been abolished and the night allowance has been reduced to 30 percent. And, you know, now these commercial units, when you call for the institutional system of Sunday's closed hours to come to life, you act as long shifts in everyday life, and on these afternoons, besides the zero-forint afternoon allowance, people don't make any more. So you can work more for less money, maybe for the same money. This is what you bring, this is what you create, this world is born with these and other laws. The floor is translated into words: when Viktor Orbán talks about the small people - I say his use of the word, I do not think so, but he is talking about the small people - and this is confirmed by his fellow Members here in the benches, my fellow Member Becsó two weeks or a week ago, but others from my fellow Member Harrach through Roland Mengyi, who were still linked to this law, through Kristóf Szatmáry many others, I have to say that people who live on wages and salaries are not winners of this story, but losers. And these people, you know, they don't make that much money. For them, the 3-5-8-10 thousand forints, which may have added extra to the kitchen, or, due to the Sunday shift, added extra to the kitchen, are, unfortunately, significant, because they are among the people who are looking for a large majority of people around the minimum of living, especially in relation to small settlements. But it's not much better in cities, they don't make much more than the minimum amount of living there. Orbán used to say that as long as you can't make a living from the work of everyday life, Sunday's opening hours are valid. I have to say that, unfortunately, the situation in these people's lives has not changed positively, but has changed more negatively, because in terms of wage conditions, you know very well, if you can't stand it, just standing up, I must say that you know very well that the minimum wage that represents 68 750 HUF net today is worth 5 thousand HUF less by 2010. One word, as a result, and as a result of national tax and customs statements, you know, where in 2013 2,2 million out of 4.3 million people make personal income tax returns, the underlying content of which is that 2.2 million people earn under the minimum living in Hungary, earns so much income... - then I think they have something to think about. They'd have something to do, but they can't do that, and life has proven that for the past five years, what's behind them. So, like a hundred, you don't have to talk about these things, you have to act to make sure that people can live their lives better the day after tomorrow and the day before yesterday. When we were talking about replacements, when I was talking about putting tens of thousands of jobs at risk, pride, arrogance, I also have to say, I think that people's freedom of thought and action should be allowed. You know, it is not good that, on the one hand, pro-government politicians engage in conflicting activities - I said, Harrach, Satmary, Becsó, Vas, Mengyi and many others, in cooperation with Viktor Orbán on this type of subject - and it is not good that you want to dictate, and you want to tell people at all costs what and how to do it. People also have their own freedom of movement, they are able to decide what they want. You have taken away the possibility of this decision from people. Not that it's mandatory to go shopping on Sunday, no, but that's the other end of the story. You know, Mr. Secretary, you have to let people know how and how they want to solve their lives, even in terms of shopping. You have taken this freedom of movement, this freedom of choice, away from people. I must also add that the evisceration you are doing was virtually not only in relation to this bill, but also in relation to other measures. But let's be specific about this bill, which affects virtually world heritage sites. I can say that success is undivided; it is undivided, but I put it in quotes, pejoratively undivided. It's not just because of what I just said, it's accompanied by cuts in salaries, job losses, budget losses, no, it's not just because of that. Success is also undivided because everything you have provided in this regard, i.e. that world heritage sites have been privileged to the story, has been kicked back after the 15th of March, not two weeks have passed, and a new law has been introduced. You can refer here to any opinion, you know, like when Orbán is here in Parliament, what he heard from Tarsoly and what he didn't hear, and then it turns out that even the dates don't match in any way. The same is your reference to people's opinions. The truth is, you're not acting on the opinion of the people, you're acting on what you want to do and what you've decided, and it doesn't matter whether it's right or right or not, you're going through with your own will. But it'll obviously bring with it the consequences, and they'll have to suffer. [[21.30]] Look, as far as tourism and tourism are concerned, I think you should have taken a more prudent decision than it is within the framework of this bill. Usually, people can use their weekends to look at, where appropriate, attractions that have been brought to life in connection with tourism developments in the last decades together, mutually, the whole country. The festivals are usually held on weekends and are visited on weekends. Usually, the crowd of people at the festival does not work out among wealthy people who can visit the catering units individually, individually and overall. No, they're looking for commercial units to provide proper care during the event period. You don't really think that in a world heritage location near attractions, say, near a small, satoc shop, it reflects well on the settlement when a multitude of sneezing lines are reflected? You don't think it's good for settlements where such attractions have taken place in recent decades if these commercial units pay less in terms of business tax? Because there are consequences. The lack of self-esteem and much more necessary for further development will come back from these settlements. One word for it, you're not raising image, you're destroying image. You guys are gonna rip through what's out there. On the other hand, in the same way as in general, employment tensions in these settlements, these world heritage tourist destinations, are further dimensioned as otherwise elsewhere in the country. You can talk about any employment, any growth, any unemployment, any reduction in employment. You know you're just doing statistics and not real employment. But I don't want to open this part, I just want to tell you that you'd at least take care of what's real, what's working, what's operational. They would pay attention to touching my narrower Patria, such as Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County, that Aggtelek, as a place of world heritage - with the visitors of the dripstone cave, the visitors of all the sights of the Historia Valley, offering, viewing possibilities - would obviously not be the largest traffic on Wednesday and Thursday days, providing the highest number of visitors, but on weekends and Sundays. Rather, they would be careful that, as a world heritage site, the town of wines - the city where tens of thousands of festivals are called to life, where virtually by building the non-festivities there were attractions, where there are thousands of visitors on a given event, on weekends, and not on Tuesdays, not on Thursdays - can enjoy the good privileges that bring the visitor to visit and go there next time; so that the visiting man will bring news to these settlements, to these world heritage sites, to someone else he recommends to go. But if you face the fact that you can't even provide your self-sufficiency in a normal way, in connection with such draft laws that I claim to be insane or adopted laws, then you can clearly see where it is coming from that which has been built over the past decades. But I could say the same to Aggtelek and Tokaj, apart from world heritage sites, even to the Miskolc county-righted city, which, in the last few decades, may try to open other directions, perhaps by stepping out of the traditional industrial structure of some time. Whether you are a commercial city or not, whether you are trying to strengthen a touristic town life, you are looting the possibility of these reinforcements with laws such as these, these settlements and the agglomeration around the world heritage sites. One word, like a hundred, they say that if I lived as far away as all the insanity that was born in these draft laws, I would never come home. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-03-31-209	Here comes László Lukács, the lead speaker of Jobbik.
u2015-03-31-210	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, we have the law on the prohibition of working on Sundays in the retail sector and the bill amending it. It seems very much that this should be noted first, that it is not in line with the public interest and in a direct proportion, which is shown here in Parliament as an interest. I looked a little out of the corner of my eye, and I took note that Fidesz's delegation of representatives was down one more time, so to speak. They seem to be less affected by this subject. In this respect, the origin of the subject can be derived precisely from them. But to talk about what I started right away, the amendment of the bill on Sunday's ban on Sunday's work, its popular name, on Sunday's closure, is once again a small curiosity. By the way, what happened to the law itself was also a legal curiosity. Before it came into force, and after the Parliament accepted it, it came in for an amendment. And now it has passed 15-16 days after its entry into force, and here again the amendment landed before the Parliament's plenum. So the bill itself, or the law, is experiencing quite a difficult situation. This is what they say is that what they might not have really succeeded in, either in the preparation phase or now, after the entry into force, in the operational phase, so to speak. Maybe they didn't scrutinize the law itself, maybe the economic environment, the commercial habits. The bill has been challenging and challenging, and the current amendment of the law is facing the same challenges. In the explanatory statement of the proposal, it is a political curio which is stated, and this has also been said in the introduction. He said, Mr State Secretary, that they would seek consultation and that the proposals received, the feedback received, would be taken into account. Well, the consultation wasn't so good before the government created the law, and since then, I think the consultation couldn't be carried out. We don't know what incoming signals the government's responding to. Although, now that I think about it, there might have been some kind of consultation, but the problem is that this consultation was very one-way. This was typically done in social media and in public, in which people largely expressed their views that they did not agree with this law. In fact, there was also a member of the government who said that if there was a referendum in this case, the result would probably be contrary to the government's will so far, so it does not promise much good. So there was a consultation, a bilateral consultation, in which I think one side only listened to the mistakes that were made to it. I don't know if that's the basis for the amendment of the law. General, what's going on here in the background, which is really related to the law known as Sunday's lockdown? It seems that Fidesz forbids those who want to work to work on Sundays, and the MSZP moves everything in order for everyone to work and get everyone to work on Sundays. In Jobbik's view, it would be better for everyone to decide on their own decision whether they want to work on Sunday or not. What is a very big problem is that even the sufferers, the sufferers of the law and the bill have not listened to their opinions in advance, and they do not seem to take them into account afterwards, because the amendment has been quite unilateral. The law changes in three places. In one of them, the opening in the world heritage area mentioned earlier, which was excluded from the scope, is subject to the ban. Article 3 In the section of the Act, a word is implemented into the law. I don't know if anyone had noticed before that the word ", " was missing, that, if so, it was correctly without technical clarification, so after all, let's say that the law and people's everyday custom interpreted this legislation in the same way without the word ".." But you know what kind of modification technical provisions you're putting in there. [[21.40]] The third substantial detail is the expansion of the mandate of the regulation into general in my interpretation. What the practice is, and I wanted to draw the Secretary of State's attention to this, because if something else is not, this is the way to look at it, and there is no need to negotiate in such cases, only to keep their hands virtually on people's lives, and to feel the solutions that Hungarians will find. Because the Hungarians, the Hungarian residents, the Hungarian people are a very resourceful people overall, and your legislative environment is being bridged with such ingenuity, and I do not want to give you any tips here, because in 15 days' time we will have to discuss another amendment to the law again with three Fidesz Members at the same time. But, for example, in this case, ingenious shopkeepers, small-scale shopkeepers, who, by the way, had not yet fallen for the possibility of being open on Sundays, who had himself qualified as a marketplace, and had been able to escape from the scope of the ban. I believe that there will be other initiatives that need to be reconsidered in 15-30 days' time. Although I am suggesting that this is not from your consultation, it is from the ingenuity of the people that brings it to light. Overall, it can be concluded that this is a further modernisation of the legislation, and instead of focusing on what we have already said, for example, on how the wage increase of workers could be resolved, to improve the wages of the people working in the commercial unit to a level of wages that is western or western, you are once again making only iciric-bity technical and favourable amendments. Instead, they should be working towards raising the wages of workers towards the Western level, as this would be the real family-friendly provision and amendment of the law. I think that's what you should think about. Jobbik would like to submit and submit an amendment to this amendment to assist existing practices and emerging practices, which would extend from 6 to 22 hours at the opening hours from 5 to 23 hours at the opening hours. My fellow Members will also speak about this here, and they will state the reasons and substance of these. I believe that the government's attitude to this law does not promise any good for the future, and I am almost certain that we will sit here and experience again tortureful attempts that you will impose on this House and try to keep up with it, just as they always try to keep up with hackers or other people doing activities, for example. It seems that you are on a continuous run with this law, and not only will you not catch up with the practice, which would otherwise be a sensible thing to do, to pay attention to and catch up with, but it very much seems that you will not even be able to catch up with this issue yourself, so it would certainly be a much more thoughtful, calmer and otherwise better legislation for everyday practice. We recommend that you support the amendments that we have tabled, because in some kind of tiny, tiny way it could still help the current situation. So that's what I wanted to say about the legislation. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-31-211	Thank you very much. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. As an independent Member is not present in the Chamber, a two-minute speech follows. Congressman László Kiss, MSZP, here you go.
u2015-03-31-212	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In connection with the previous comment, my fellow Member, Luke, misidentified the position of the MSZP, that is not the case at all. The Hungarian Socialist Party disagrees that this madness is unleashed on Hungary, which is called closed on Sunday. At the same time, we also disagreed with the amendment to the Labour Code that brought down the allowance for Sunday work to 50 per cent compared to the previous 100 per cent. The MSZP also proposed an amendment to the Labour Code in this session - which you, by the way, the majority of the governors were not even willing to negotiate - which included an increase to 100 per cent for Sunday work. The government has conducted a Pharisee policy on this matter, because you have promised to reconsider the Sunday bonus on the bill, i.e. the Sunday closure bill. They have done so, they have thought so much about it, that they have withdrawn their proposal to increase the bonus on Sunday. We will continue to maintain this demand. It is necessary to stop the practice of your labour code, whereby workers are exploited by employers on Sunday, and this can be stopped by increasing the allowance for Sunday work. There can be a debate, and at any time the MSZP is ready for such a debate, that 100 percent is too little, and this could be increased, but it is an amazing attitude that, while you have reduced the allowance for Sunday work, while talking about protecting people working on Sundays. I think the solution is that the Sunday allowance will be 100 percent or higher again. We need a code of work that does not exploit workers so as not to boast, as the Prime Minister did in Saudi Arabia a few years ago, that it is safe for everyone to come here and invest, because there is a code of work that gives them the opportunity to exploit the workers. That's the way to protect the Sunday workers.
u2015-03-31-213	Thank you very much. Since only one comment from a group can be made in two minutes in one round, we are now moving to the group of speakers that have been announced and I will give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes, who has made a written statement of her intention to speak. Here you go.
u2015-03-31-214	Thank you very much for the floor. It is disappointing that for the past two months, we have begun this law for the fourth time, and all four times at ten o'clock in the evening, we are able to pass this law. Even if you try to sneak away from this law, even if you try to make it as late as possible and make it possible for as few people as possible to tighten up on this law again. People know what you're doing; they know you're trying to limit them again. I do not understand that either you do not walk the streets and speak to people, do not listen to news, do not watch morning TV shows, do not live in this reality and in Hungary, or actually present to you a proposal that you are obliged to submit to you. Because I'm starting to get the feeling, especially as I look at the faces of their representatives, both of them, that they themselves don't think they can agree on this thing, but it's probably an obligation for the Ministry to submit it. It must be a bad way to steer, by the way. Because if you just look at the representative research of Szonda Ipsos at the beginning of March 2015, where we can see that two thirds of people also opposed the idea of keeping closed on Sunday. When we stood on the street in front of the shops, when you guys threw this idea in, and asked people, people responded in a similar proportion to us. Nearly two thirds of people in small settlements, large settlements and villages said to the people stopped ad hocally that they did not want the shops to be closed on Sundays and their lives to be limited. Today, Peter Harrach was asked how he felt about the fact that students would have a worse opportunity to work in student work. After all, you put college students in the position that, after a lot of them have to pay for further education, rent, to go to university and at least have a future in Hungary, a lot of them have to do student work. In most cases, they've done this in shops over the past few years, in multinational companies you've been defrauding. These are students who sit in college classes and seminars during the day, study all day hard, and then go in at night and pack shelves because you got them to pay, so that their parents can't support them, that they can't help them, that they have to work to study in the future. But what you can do with this close-up is that these students won't be able to get a job because they won't be able to get in on Sunday. 'Cause you don't have to go to college on Sunday, so you've been able to go to work and go to work at night. We won't need them now. More and more university students speak on the Internet, on social portals and wherever they know, blogs are written about this issue, that it is not true that they do not understand the ruling party, so that they do not be restricted on this issue. On the one hand, they should not be limited in deciding whether to go shopping on Sunday, and on the other hand, they should not be limited in taking up work. Because if you look at the work that college students can do in addition to these job opportunities, in most cases they offer them 40 hours of work a week, which a college student who is a regular day student cannot afford, because then he will really sleep at the university or not attend, that could be. Only then he can't master the things he needs to learn. [[21.50]] I think I was still in college at that lucky time when you guys haven't tried to limit this. And the weird thing is, these young people, you know, grew up in a world where democracy is absolutely natural for them, it's perfectly natural for them to decide their own lives. And don't be surprised if these young people leave the country because of their decisions of this type, because they don't want to know that because they have two-thirds of the government, you can decide and you can tell them what you think of the world and what you can do. When Péter Harrach was asked about this question today, what he said about the difficult situation of students in the higher education institution due to the closing of the shop on Sunday, and how he sees this problem, whether he considers it a problem at all, he replied that he did not consider it a problem. When they asked why, he said it was because it wasn't a problem. Because to this day, he still wants to see the garbage multinational companies pissing off college students to think something bad about it. Gentlemen, these college students have their own thoughts, they got into colleges, they're going to study to replace themselves, because they don't want to hear about this generation, they don't want to hear about the generation of 30s, they don't want to hear about the generation of 20s, and they're getting more and more upset with you. I suppose you're around this age group, and if you go out on the streets at home in your settlements, you'll probably just be stopped, you'll say that opinion, and I guess that's why your coworkers say that, because there's a lot of young ladies and gentlemen working in the ministries these days. It's interesting to hear the thoughts of the Jobbik party in its early days. I really think that either you do not hear what the MSZP says in this matter at an early age, that you should leave the decision free, or that you want to be more and more like Big Brother, and you do not want to understand what we are saying. Gentlemen, we tell you to leave the freedom of decision on this matter. We do not want to oblige people to work on Sunday, but we want those who need to receive extra money for this, let them go to work, who can buy their children's shoes from them, let them go to work, because today it is not a decision, but a question of pay, especially for a commercial worker. If you could make a decision from the heart, of course, you might decide otherwise, but unfortunately, this is a financial issue. Orbán said that this will be introduced when six days' wages can be earned in Hungary. Gentlemen, let alone six days, but I don't know if there's three more days in the week plus, it would be very difficult. When more than 50 percent of people live near a minimum of life, I really can't imagine that you guys are totally serious about this. I really think that at 10:00 p.m., they're gonna bring in this law to see if it's possible to sneak away. And then I really just want to quote the sentence of a college student written on one of the blogs, who, by the way, is a student at the University of Technology today. He's been in college for another year, his dad's a community worker, his mom's for sale, he's got two chances: he's either dropped out of college or his brother, because he paid the rent today. I don't know if they want to understand or don't want to hear. My problem is that the government is really torn from reality today, and it doesn't want to hear the people who sent you here, and I think they've regretted it a hundred times because you're taking advantage of the trust you've been given. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-31-215	Thank you very much. Mr. Dániel Z. Kárpát, Mr. Jobbik. Here.
u2015-03-31-216	Mr President, Dear House, First of all, what the government is doing on the front of Sunday's lockdown is in the category of desperate madness. So the fact that, based on the experience of the last few weeks, not two thirds of the Hungarian people, I claim that 90 percent of them cannot identify with what you have done in this area is quite amazing. So here in front of us, I'll tell you what it could be. It could be a bad decision, but it would be lifelike, let's say, even to realize that Sunday's closure is a disaster, puts workers in a difficult position, and, say, to raise the afternoon's allowance - what Jobbik has done - that if this catastrophic situation has come up, at least the afternoon's allowance will be increased to a minimum to replace Sunday's falling out, but it would be even more fortunate to raise it to a higher level. Let us say that this would be a proposal that could be debated, since you have created this difficult situation by two thirds, at least at that time let us make it easier for the people involved not to get into a worse situation than before, because of you, apart from your own mistakes and choices. At the same time, I must stop for a moment at the speech of the MSZP just now. I always hit a gentleman's voice against ladies, no less harsh, but now, as a party, I must say that the MSZP is ashamed of itself, it is disastrous what it is doing. Your party in Hungary has created a situation in which the Hungarian small and medium-sized entrepreneurs could be destroyed in a decade-long perspective, with job creation benefits and tax incentives. Unlike suppliers, your governments [[Anita Herring: So popular!]] they left a pattern of behaviour - in spite of yelling at it - to spread patterns of behaviour that led to the peak of the looting of Hungarian workers. [[György Szilágyi, applause: That's right!]] I'm not going to go any further on how many foreign sectors they've let go, and now they're coming here for the good of the workers. I would have liked to have moved for them in eight years. So it's a little sanctimonious, a little double communication. We must say that the person who has not been in government in the last 15 years has not been responsible for this issue, and you have been and have created a catastrophic climate. The exploitation and looting of workers by multi-company companies is the result of what you have allowed on the Hungarian market. And it does have to be interfered, but it doesn't matter how, not in the catastrophic way and the way that the government went through, by the way. What are we looking at? I see two extreme positions: one extreme position for Fidesz... Push a button, don't honk into it. One of the extreme positions of Fidesz, which says that it is mandatory to keep everything closed on Sunday. It's amazing, it's untenable, it can't be carried through in this way. The other extreme position belongs to the MSZP, which says that it is mandatory to work, and, by the way, MEP László Kiss was quite right to see that because of the errors in the Code of Work... - this was the first meaningful comment on the subject, because Zoltán Gőgös did not read what he criticized, at least you read it. You are right to see that the very wrong way of amending the Code of Work has created such a situation, a climate that if we started according to your programme, we could have anyone working in Hungary on a mandatory Sunday, which is also an unacceptable, extreme position. Between these two extremist positions, Jobbik has a close-up proposal to work on a voluntary basis for everyone who depends on it in the last days of the month, say, the supplement or the last few thousand forints, but to this end, the employer should be the one to create the climate that makes the employee interested, no obligation in the system. I am pleased that there are already such statements in several directions, but we must say that the two extremist positions between these people cannot be discussed - and here we do not see government representatives with whom we can discuss this. [[Happy Stephen intervenes.]] - It's pretty amazing. There is, therefore, such a proposal, and we must say yes, it could be argued that, at least until then, we will raise the afternoon allowance to a level that can counterbalance the fallout of Sunday. And I have one more very important question to ask you. Ádám Mirkóczki, who is now unable to speak because of his notary, came to his host hour by shopkeepers and entrepreneurs - otherwise they were also involved in my host hour - who said that because of the unbelievably flawed legislation of the government they were in a situation, so here we are talking about small shops that may be open, that their convenience stores may be closed. What happens when we talk about shops with very low turnover in small towns and villages, say that one owner has two such units in a region where people go to factories even to work on Sundays? Typically, such a convenience store brings a total of 50-60 thousand forints of traffic on a Sunday day. I'm talking about a real example, obviously without a name, because we don't want you to get the person involved in trouble. We can see that half of this 50-60 thousand HUF traffic was generated during the normal period, so before you were modified, between 5 and 6 a.m., during the period when people went to the factory to work, and the basic food types needed for this were bought in this convenience store. According to your regulations, between five and six in the morning, only the owner can stand there, and only the employee can stand, so these stores lose even half of this very modest Sunday traffic. The minimum would be an amendment that would allow them to appear and remain on the market for at least two or any number of employees. They are already shaking their heads, but it would be nice to think about and hear these improving, truly improving amendments, as they could be made closer to this system, but what we need to see is that what you are doing this Sunday is essentially untenable. [[22.00]] If such a government does not see how its actions are contrary to the fundamental internal movements of society, to social dynamics, then the failure of that government is practically encoded in the system, the only question is when this will happen. The fact that they were able to gain two-thirds advantage in two elections, the second, by means of your machine, does not mean that two thirds of society, or the majority, would agree with this madness. So we must say that not in such a way, perhaps, by adopting the amendments, but in summary we see that Jobbik represents at the moment the close attitude that could really move and put Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises in a position. Yes, it is necessary to take action against the exploitation of multi-company companies, since almost no one has given us any counter-opinion, but in this way and with such a level of debate, unfortunately, we see little hope. Especially if, with the amendment before us, even a part of tourism is cut to death and further damage to the economy is caused, other people's lives will be impossible, we can see that it will be very difficult. If you could just think a little bit about Sunday's allowance and think about those who work in the catering industry or work in a place where they are still forced to work, you could see that the lives of ordinary people are not necessarily as you see from the Rose Hill, the Hungarian Autumn is a little different. It is also necessary to see that if the order that the MSZP loves would return, let us say, in many jobs, in many sectors, people would simply be obliged to work on Sundays, not for a higher allowance than before, but today in Hungary, the requirement to fill relatively few jobs is to accept what the employer has to say without any control and any contradiction. You need to see this. If you talk to people who are employees - and I trust that this is the case - you can see that the vulnerability of workers and workers is amazing. So it has not been good in the way it has been before, but I would ask all the responsible actors, political thinkers, to try to find the path between the two that could be maintained, because it is in the interests of Hungarian citizens. And I would just like to draw the government's attention to the fact that it is no coincidence that over 90 percent of the population are opposed to what you have done. These citizens are not insane, they are not selfish, they do not want to hurt themselves, otherwise I think they do not want you to, they simply want to let their lives flow and they want to live in peace. To intervene in this with such harsh methods has never been lucky, has always ended badly, and it will end badly in your case, too, if you fail to see it. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-31-217	Two-minute comment, Congressman Nándor Gúr, MSZP.
u2015-03-31-218	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I say to Dániel Z. Kárpát, only if he doesn't remember it, then turn it over, when the Code of Work was amended to 707 amendments, if I remember correctly, 508 of which were submitted by the Hungarian Socialist Party, and these amendments were far, far, far, vast majority, 95 percent of the workers' rights and interests. I don't know where you guys were at the time, so you're probably just lying there. The other part of the story: you know, the art of hypocrisy is what you do in the walls of Parliament. [[Z. Carpathian to Daniel:]] I'm talking about you, you know, don't interrupt, just listen. So, the point is... [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] - I just returned the words, Mr. President. So the essence of the thing is to remember, remember back in 2010. CHAPTER XI On the 24th of the month, if you can do it, if you can't, I'll help you. Text number T/1793, five representatives of Jobbik: Zsolt Baráth, Szilvia Bertha, Tamás Sneider, Sebestyén Vágó, and interestingly Dániel Z. Kárpát - that's probably you, isn't it? [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Here it is, I'll give it to you right away.]] Yes, yes, it is likely that some of the amendments to the law needed to ensure free Sunday have been initiated to limit the opening of shops on Sunday. Looks like one flag, it's gonna touch, it's gonna have to, it's gonna be very close, the Fidesz and the Jobbik in this respect. Then you're talking about shutting down, preaching, and now you're talking about it in a hypocritical way, because 90 percent of the population is saying that, and then... [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Let us therefore pay attention to the content of this.]] - Mr. Z. Carpath, Mr. Dániel Z. Carpathian! So, one word as a hundred, credibility, hypocrisy, and a lot of other things to put together, and the flag swinging together, you know, I would care less about someone else, more of you, yourself, if I were you. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-31-219	They won't figure out who wants to speak for two minutes: Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has the opportunity.
u2015-03-31-220	Mr President, Dear House, I would suggest to our Socialist fellow Member that Zoltán Gőgös should not go on his way; he also criticized something without reading it. If you wish to speak on the proposal submitted by Jobbik on 24 November 2010, please read it in favour of criticism, here you will see it, and I have underlined it to you, I can give it to you. [[Nándor Gúr: Thank you, I know him.]] If there is a problem to eliminate, the more than ten exceptions under which virtually any Hungarian-owned small enterprise may be open during the period concerned. I am telling you that it is a Hungarian-owned and small enterprise, because during the period when you made your bed and heated up to the multinational companies, this was not a priority. It was not a matter of the Hungarian shopkeeper's benefit and the Hungarian employee's benefit, perhaps the few employed and deprived by the multinationals. The point of Jobbik's proposal was, and we have no reason to deviate from this philosophy, so that the Hungarian-owned and smaller units of plants finally gain some kind of fixed and predictable income from a permanent competitive disadvantage. I understand that this cannot be understood in your coordinate system, or perhaps it doesn't make sense, but accept that ours is different, in addition to a protectionist economic policy, ours will appear in a recurring way, along with the protection of national strengths, in the interests of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises in the form of such proposals. We would like to protect these shops against those you have released to the Hungarian market. It is the Fidesz-KDNP's fault that in the last five years it has been able, in essence, to slow down the looting mechanism of multi-company companies, but not to eliminate it. But my request is that before you criticize something, read it. I would not like to read it to you because it would be humiliating, and I respect my fellow Members so much that I assume they can read what is in front of them. I'm asking you to do the same. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-31-221	We will return to the Members who have asked for the normal word, and Mr György Szilágyi will have the opportunity to speak.
u2015-03-31-222	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I really want to talk about the law, but at the beginning, I'm making a very short detour. Nándor Gúr mentioned authenticity. Congressman, not you! So don't, when the name of Saudi Arabia was mentioned in this speech, the Saudi Arabia is now an example, the Saudi Arabia that your Prime Minister had because he was here, you were sitting in this House at that time, Ferenc Gyurcsány simply terrorized. Zoltán Haughty is killing Azerbaijan right now. So not this credibility! We have said exactly what we think of this. However, to the comments: I am outraged not only by what you are saying, but also by the fact that when Anita Heringes brings an example here, and as I understand it, Anita Heringes, who is not listening now, because they are discussing it, is true, and it is possible that such people are living in such a situation, because it is the Hungarian reality today that it is necessary to decide which son will continue to learn, and which is not, then Mr Tállai State Secretary will name it. You are sitting here in this House, there are two, and when it comes to the fact that in a family, if two children are studying at university, one of them may have to stop, you are laughing. [[András Tállai: I'm laughing at you!]] Mr. Secretary, we'd like to ask you at least a little more seriously for what you're saying. [[András Tállai: I laugh at you, and I will laugh at you!]] 'Cause what you've said so far, it's almost a laughing stock. Now let's talk about the law. T/3414. There's a number of laws ahead of us right now, there's a debate about this law... no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The T/3414 Act was on 15 March, because the last time we discussed this amendment was when it was in front of the TAB, it was thought that five days before its entry into force it should be amended, as this is the fourth amendment to this three-month law. So your last amendment was on 10 March, entered into force on 15th, Mr Secretary of State, and you are very fast, because you have now said in your exposé that, drawing lessons from the past period, you are now changing. [[22.10]] This law is in force for seven weeks. From these two weeks, the experiences of a weekend were drawn, since the 15th of March is a public holiday, and the shops are closed anyway. Now, it was only one weekend that you could draw your experience from, it was one weekend, you drew it quickly, and we already have this amending proposal before us, which we are discussing again. When, by the way, I found this previous one, which I have just happened to find because it was still in my bag, it was such a short time, we discussed the amendment on March 10th, they said that everything was all right now, there are no more modifications to be made here, just so you know what happened at the TAB! What happened in the TAB -- there aren't many people now -- is that Révész Máriusz, who is sitting in there, began to argue with you because he didn't understand the law, the amendment at that time didn't understand the point. Márius Révész didn't understand, and I don't think they understand what this is about, and they won't if they're not here. What was the position of the MSZP? 'Cause we were talking about the MSZP having positions. Well, there at the TAB meeting, at the previous trial, was the position of the MSZP that there is a wrong law, there are loopholes in this wrong law, because we are talking about what loopholes they want to close, aren't we, the pro-government representatives, and you would like to leave these loopholes. At the time, too, a multinational company who tried to circumvent this Sunday's shutdown by running open shops at gas stations wished to leave this opportunity for them to continue operating these shops. So you're trying to leave the loopholes to multinational companies, and this law is wrong the way it is, and Fidesz-KDNP refuses to see it. He refuses to notice that people do not want this law, they do not want it to continue. You can practice a little self-criticism, because you've practiced self-criticism, you don't have such a big problem, because remember, you were very determined at the Internet tax, and then you quickly withdrew it. It's the same way the world's gonna work, we're gonna keep going, we can just take this back. But we could also say, "Go for it," by the way. We will discuss the amendment of this law at least 15 times. Feel free to keep it going, because the longer you stick to the high level of this nonsense, which represents this law, the more it destroys your credibility, the more it destroys your judgment. So we could say that, but we don't say that. You know why we don't say it? For one reason only, because with this law, you decide the fate of men. They decide the fate of people, and we won't be like you were, sitting still for eight years, doing nothing for the good of the people, waiting for the MSZP to do itself nicely, ruining itself, and then you two-thirds can walk into Parliament and run a rampage that you've done over the past five years. Let's get to the law, then. The proposed amendment to the law on keeping retail shops closed on Sunday is as valid as the original legislation itself. The legislative provision on Sunday's closure can be regarded as a government dictatorship, since neither a real social need - it has been proven in the past - nor an economic necessity has justified it. The unfoundedness and error of the provision has already been explained by the speakers before me and explained what should and what would be appropriate to change. The biggest change would be if you, as it is, were to enforce this law and, let us say, start to think that if you do things for the benefit of the workers, because you will always invent a slogan, so whatever you have done, you have always set a very, very noble goal, although it was not about the law, but you could always say the noble goal, now this noble goal is to act in the interests of the workers and similar. Do you know how many areas of work there are where you can represent the interests of employees? Do you know how many areas there are where workers can take action? This could be one of those areas. Well, you could simply determine that someone who wants to put people to work on a Sunday should, for example - and I will go on - pay 20,000 forints a day. And then, whoever pays the 20,000 forints will work, and you can decide whether the employee wants to work for 20,000 forints or doesn't want to work. But what you're doing is ridiculous. So, once again, the fact that the law of just three months, which has only been in force for two weeks, needs to be amended, severely undermines trust in the law and destroys citizens' belief in the rule of law. Such a paced, unprepared legislation can be seen as a cutting-edge rather than a thoughtful regulation, the direct and clear consequence of which is the inability of citizens to comply with their laws, which, my fellow Members, is unsuitable. I'm gonna need you to hand it over to the other Fidesz KDNP MPs. We believe that this is unsuitable, what you are doing here with this bill. The proposal includes an amendment to the content: it prohibits the opening of shops in world heritage areas on Sunday. This is a tightening of which the justification is questionable. It's completely questionable, just as it's gonna be questionable, so I'm gonna tell you in advance that you're thinking about starting up, say, the Balaton season, there's gonna be things there that can be questioned if it's right. I'll tell you something else, there's gonna be Formula One, and there's gonna be a lot of things here that you guys need to deal with. They will make this country impossible in many respects by keeping it closed on Sunday; what Daniel Z. Carpathian said should be followed. It is proposed that two clarifications should be translated. One changes the text of the empowering provision given to the government. The criteria to which the government is obliged to establish a decree implementing the law are removed from the text of the law. So this amendment increases the scope of the government and also reduces predictability. In the area of trade in particular, a stable and predictable regulatory environment is key and the proposed amendment can therefore be considered to be particularly damaging. Finally, let me say about the amendment, which, according to the detailed justification, is stated to contain a,, grammatical clarification. This clarification, this amendment introduces a very important thing, a definite article. The text that applies to all business in general. So the amendment inserts a definite article into a text that applies to all businesses. The inclusion of a definite article makes the interpretation of the text more difficult, and it is also pointless, as the text sets out a general requirement for businesses. I told you, it's for all the businesses. Ladies and gentlemen, It is shocking that text freaks who call themselves codificators do not know the Hungarian language. It is unacceptable that the legislative work has fallen to the level of unneeded fabrication. I ask you, didn't you read the text three months ago? Or was it perhaps three months before this very serious grammatical question was decided that we now have this part in this amendment before us? The bill before us is a good example of the unacceptable, low level of legislation, the lack of basic skills and competences of those preparing it, and I suggest that we reject similar invaluable materials regardless of their content, and at least be demanding of ourselves. Although it is a question of your interest, as your representatives will come in this bill without knowing anything about it, they will press the button and you will carry on this - as I have said - nonsense. One more question arises: how many changes will there really be to this law? Secretary of State, how many times do you intend to amend the rules on Sunday's closure? How many other things do you see that you will feel need to change? How many times are they gonna rewrite these rules? And how long does it take for you to realize that what you're imagining is not good? [[22.20]] Maybe we should read newspapers when they don't go out with people anymore. The easiest thing would be to go out with people and ask people what they think. Unfortunately, you haven't been going out with people in a while, you don't talk to people, which is why you don't even know what's out there, outside your luxury cars, what's in the world, how people live. So, if you don't go out with people, read the newspaper, maybe watch news, watch reports where reporters go, and ask - otherwise, people have drawn the experience from this one weekend - and go to a church on Sunday, for example, and ask the people coming out of it about the idea of keeping closed on Sunday. They couldn't find a man who would've supported him, and they couldn't find one person who would've said a good thing about keeping him locked up, even though it was people you referred to, who were supposedly close to KDNP. Although it is difficult to stand close to KDNP because we are talking about a non-existent party, they can only sit in an alliance with you in Parliament now, for now, and then see what happens after 2018. Once again, we could wait patiently for you to saw the branch that will fall on the ground with which you will fall, and you will find it very difficult to get up from there, but we do not want to wait, because we do not wish to wait for it, because we do not wish to be in government position with the loss of people. We will fight you, we will win the elections in 2018, and we will change all laws such as this law so that it is good for Hungary. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-31-223	Happy Congressman Stephen, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2015-03-31-224	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I think that the proposal that we have made on Sunday's closure serves the two basic objectives for which we have created the law, even to this day. One of these, if I had heard correctly, would have liked it even in 2010; since then, it has obviously not worked as part of the cute campaign, so now they say something else, and that is to finally help Hungarian-owned small businesses and small shops after 25 years. As you may think, those who live among your constituents, as I do, meet the small-time shopkeepers who happen to be happy with Sunday's lockdown, the fact that multinational companies can't open on Sunday. There are shopkeepers who have opened a shop under the law, where there have been only large shops, and now they have developed their commercial units, and two of them have become three, and they make a very good living, and this is a Hungarian retailer. So if you wanted to help the Hungarian retailers in 2010, I don't understand this part, because what you're saying is that the worker will decide if he wants to work on Sundays, well, I imagine the employee to whom Tesco's boss is going to go to see if he wants to work on Sundays. No. Okay, so you don't have to come in on Monday. That's about the reaction. I'm sorry, but it's not viable what they say that the employee will decide. The thing is, the boss decides whether he wants to work or not, because he'll always find a dealer. And the fact that we've given the workers, the commercial workers, the opportunity to be home on Sunday, look, I've talked to some of the employees who have worked in a large multinational company for 10 days and more, and they're happy to finally be home with their family this Sunday. Of course, it is understandable that some people miss not being able to go to Tesco on Sunday, but let us not say that they are cut off from shopping somewhere, because there are shops in every settlement where they can shop. To say only my own settlement, there are only three shops open on Sundays in a 700-person settlement. So I think that there are enough shops open either in Budapest or in other settlements so that people can buy their daily needs. And those commercial workers who don't have to go to work on Sundays, who can finally be at home with their families, are happy about that. Of course, the multinational companies who lost this Sunday are not happy. Nevertheless, I think that this will not cause a great deal of loss in their traffic, because on Saturday an extended opening was introduced, and apparently, based on the experience of the first week, people shop on Saturday, because they know that on Sunday they only know about small shops, and on Sunday, the one who has a good convenience store goes there. With the suggestion that my fellow Member Luke could open the shops at 5 a.m., I agree, and I wanted to propose this myself, and I support it. I don't agree with 23 hours, only 5 hours, I'll tell you, I don't think these shops need to be open after 22:00, but opening at 5:00 is a very important thing, especially in small rural towns, where breakfast can be bought by people who go to work before dawn. Again, that's a good suggestion. I am asking my fellow Members, especially the right-wingers, to return to their first idea, which was in 2010, when they thought that Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises should be supported, because if they now say what they are saying right now, that the whole law is not good, then if we withdraw the whole law, we will support the multinationals again, and for 25 years, the multinationals have always preferred Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, and this is the law that will favour small and medium-sized enterprises over multinationals. So maybe we could agree on this, of course, obviously, if the cute campaign doesn't fit, then we certainly won't agree, because now it's not a popular thing that the government is doing, obviously, yet, once again, the goal that we have set with this law so that commercial workers can rest on Sunday, have the right to be at home, and that Hungarian-owned small and medium-sized enterprises should benefit from multinationals, I think that goal is being achieved by the law. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-31-225	Speaking as a representative asking for a normal word, Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP.
u2015-03-31-226	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to start by saying that it is a shame in itself, my fellow Member, that such a bill should be negotiated in such circumstances. It is a shame when society, a far-reaching majority of people, is affected and interested in this issue, then there is a secretary of state sitting on the side of the governing parties, sitting within the walls of Parliament for your part. So, I think this is a mockery of the law on your part. The same thing you did when the labor code was adopted, you know, that shameful labor code, the same thing you did when the strike law was passed, at a height of 3:30 a.m., doing the same thing with regard to these types of laws. They don't want to be public about these things, they just want to do it, they just want to decide, they just want to take away people's freedom of thought, and they want to take away their freedom of action. I think it's a shame. I can tell you, in my order of values, that's a disgrace. It's a shame, because it's taking the story in a direction where people can only go on a designated orbit. During the first period, this track is even wider, then it has sidewalk width, then they can only go on a plank and then they will do a rope dance. Do you think that's normal? Are you there talking to people? No, I dare say it with a calm spirit. They don't even dare talk to each other, even in the walls of Parliament, they call a seating schedule every two weeks, where a few of the Fidesz MEPs are lurking in the hall one week. [[22.30]] They don't even dare talk to each other anymore. Even within the walls of Parliament, a seating schedule is convened every two weeks, where some of the Fidesz MEPs are lurking in the room one week. They don't even want you guys to meet each other anymore, because if some people are still talking to people, they might even tell each other what they're talking about, and that's not good, because it's causing tension within themselves. You should think about what you're doing. They should think about where we're going, ignoring everything, making decisions. They should not be taught by their own faults alone; if others have made mistakes and similar things, they should learn from it. But do it because I am most particularly sorry not for what will happen to you, your party, but for what will harm people at that time. That's what we should try to avoid. What I can tell you is that if you have a drop of good feeling, you act by not talking about what kind of opinions have been based on what you are, but actually consulting people. National consultations should be conducted on such issues, not on such matters, in such a way that I know in advance what answers will be made: should we raise minimum wage? Well, probably 98 percent of people will say yes. Yeah, but if you're gonna ask me that, you're gonna have to do it in such a way that it doesn't add revenue to the state, it's gonna cost the employer and the employee extra money, but it's gonna have to bring it back to the person who earns a minimum wage, because that's not how it's going to happen, you know that. You also know that when Orbán put a poster in his nose and mouth, you could see everywhere a thousand times that the minimum wage was growing, then the gross of the minimum wage grew, yeah, hard. The burden has increased for employers and employees, but in addition to all this, the money that the employee has taken in his hands and is worth less than five years ago. Again, it's a form of hypocrisy, a shameful act. No wonder they don't dare come before people's eyes. No wonder they don't want to hold consultations, how they avoid them. But I think we should go back to the road that is about people taking into account that they don't want to put in Internet taxes the way they wanted to, that they don't want to do Sunday lock-ups the way they want to, but that they want to do real consultations with people, you know! ? And then to lie to the world about Internet taxes? Their group leader stood up and said here in Parliament's walls, not literally, but in its content, that the United States of America wants to introduce such an Internet tax. You remember him when he was here, don't you? And then the next day, they had to face the rebuttals that they didn't, and they didn't want to do an Internet tax. If you make a statement like this, a congressman, a faction leader, it's the next day that you shouldn't look into the camera every day, but you should avoid the camera. So, what I want to say is that it would be nice to consult, to talk to people, and then to give birth to draft laws while taking into account that set of opinions, and not to bring them into the walls of Parliament under cover of the night, but to discuss normal consultation in a fair way, not to talk about agreements or agreements, but to adopt laws in such a way that it is in the interests of the people, and that you do not make decisions by force on every issue, but that you want to take into account or take into account what people's views and views on these matters. You don't want to take away the freedom of choice from people. One minute, in one period, Orbán says no, not until 5 days, 6 days' earnings are not enough to make a normal living, and Sundays' closed hours are out of the question. And the next minute, you're telling me we're shutting down stores? My fellow Members, there may also be a platform where we can fight together for Hungarian small businesses, for businesses within the SME sector, which must not only be talked about, but also act for them. You know, I dare say with a calm spirit that it would be worth considering, for example, in terms of 0-24 hours, the number of Hungarian Hungarian SMEs within the framework of these companies, and now let us see if it is good that these companies are only doing Sunday work with the participation of their owners or their family members. Is this okay on one side if you want to leave Sunday work on the other side? Or if you wish to limit it, there is no contradiction in this matter. So what I'm trying to say is that I wouldn't spread this story to SMEs and not SMEs, just because I think there's a need for normal cooperation. Non-SMEs account for a significant proportion of the volume of production of Hungarian gross domestic products. You do know, my fellow Member, what kind of relations are there for today's employment and GDP production? Well, multinationals employ less and generate more GDP; SMEs employ more people and produce less GDP. I think we need both. Not to hit one and spit on the other and raise the other to the top. No, both because, you know, multinationals also have suppliers, they are usually Hungarian SMEs. But I don't want to go in that direction, I just wanted to say that I think there's work to be done on both sides. Mr Tállai, State Secretary, says that physical and mental health must be ensured, that was in his introductory thoughts, that is what Sunday is about, that is what it should be about. Secretary of State, I say that healthy jobs should be ensured in everyday life. You know, at a time when you, as an example, led to the early retirement system, because you do not think that, after doing harmful work, people will be able to obtain these benefits in the future, you have acted against the people, while you have done nothing in the last five years to, say, create healthier jobs. Once again, for the sake of recall, when the code of shameful work was called to life, more than 500 of those not much more than 700 amendments were submitted by the Hungarian Socialist Party, and by far the vast majority were endowed with the interests of employees, Hungarian small, medium-sized enterprises or micro-enterprises, i.e. the interests of workers. You know, when it comes to the safety of livelihoods, Mr. Secretary of State, you should always think about, let's say, what wage levels people working in this commercial sector live on, that in small settlements it is usually the minimum wage, the minimum living in larger urban settlements, or not much more than what they can earn in a given month. The problem is that if you think everything needs to be changed, even in relation to yourself, compared to what has happened in recent years, it is because every time you put new draft laws into the walls of this House, I see that they are making more and more laws that do not serve the interests of the people, and this does not move the country forward. With regard to world heritage sites, I have nothing else to say or say but that these are not prerogatives. These are simply reasonable things, that in these locations, world heritage sites, the ban on Sunday's lockdown, the possibility of buying, is an unacceptable thing. [[22.40]] You're nodding, Mr. Secretary. [[András Tállai: I'm not nodding, I'm shaking my head. But it's insanity.]] No matter how much he shakes his head, no matter how hard he gets up, no matter how much he sits down, no matter how much he spins, it doesn't change the situation. [[András Tállai: I don't know what you're talking about, because shops can be open. They're not gonna close all the stores!]] It's not the same when a sac shop-like store opens, where thousands of people snake in rows, and it's not the same when the business is provided with the right service and the right products for the people there. [[András Tállai: At least I woke up! Defiance.]] It's a very simple story, Mr. Secretary. You don't seem to have any idea what's going on in these settlements. I see you have no idea how or how people live their lives in this country. But it seems to me, and that's the problem, that you don't want to make up for that. You don't seem to want to know the real situation. They have phobias that they want to enforce, rather than get to know reality, and bring into the House the type of laws that are adapted to reality that would serve the interests of people, the interests of smaller settlements, the interests of world heritage sites, and their development opportunities, together with all other additional draft laws. You know, when funds are taken from cities' budgets, because they do so, they paralyze and limit the development potential of these cities, these settlements. Because where and when will you be able to provide self-esteem for the implementation of various development aids? You're only placing a burden on the municipalities. They don't give you a helping hand, you're just putting a burden on the simple, everyday people you can sing about at the small people's level, blowing the little people's song, but all you can do is make sure they're taken away from them and how. Once again, in my first sentence, the last thing they do is that it's shameful what they do and how they do it in terms of lawmaking. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-03-31-227	It's a two-minute lap. Happy Congressman István, Fidesz!
u2015-03-31-228	Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, I find it strange that Congressman Gur is asking why we are so few. How do you know I'm not responsible for this subject right now from Fidesz? There's only three of you here. I've been sitting here for 13 and 45 hours, and you've been here for a few hours. But the same is true of you. Let's just say there's not a lot of congressmen around here who have been here since this morning. [[Márta Demeter: I was here!]] The lady was here, yes, sorry, the lady was here. Let's just say that you have, too, since everyone from the other factions is not here, there are topic managers, and they're on those topics. Regardless, it's obviously affecting the entire faction. Mr Gúr has an interesting approach, who would support small settlements and small settlement shops by opening large shops. It's kind of weird for me, because I don't mind, but small-town shops can breathe a little bit right now just because they have the people who live there this weekend and don't go into the big multinational shops. And be assured, because these convenience stores can prepare themselves, even in places that are part of the world's heritage, so that they can serve all kinds of customers with the things they'll be looking for. I understand that you are very protective of opening up the multinationals, that you want to talk even the betteries into saying that it would only be good if all the shops could open up, but believe me that this law serves exactly the purpose that we intended for them, so that commercial workers can spend Sunday at home and that Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises can develop. That the shops that are owned by the family should be open to small businesses. And there are no restrictions on people's ability to shop on Sunday, because they can shop in these Hungarian-owned shops on Sunday. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-31-229	Congressman László Kiss will be here in two minutes.
u2015-03-31-230	Thank you for the floor. Some things are interesting in this debate. One: for the second time, we have listened to the opinion of the lead speaker and theme director of Fidesz in this debate, but it would be good to hear his master of viruses and ideas, KDNP; if this extremely nasty disease has already been given to so many people in the country, which is closing on Sunday, then it would be good if the infectious goose could show up a little between the walls of the House, from whom this nasty disease has spread. This would be all the more good, because if the arguments that my fellow Member told me about the closure of Tescok in small settlements and other similar fantasies would continue to ring, then we could see nice arguments here as to how good it is for Hungarian people to keep closed on Sunday. Let me quote your fellow Member, János Pócs, who said in his Internet television statement, when he was asked who this law was good for, so he drew a clever fidesz answer: he said that it was good for families. Obviously! Then, when they asked him the otherwise perfectly obvious question of how and how it was good for families, he said that it was not really right with Hungarians, grammatically, in the right way, but with a sensible sense of logic, that it was good in the long term. Then, when they asked him again how it was good for families, he said it was good in the long run. Compared to this, my fellow Member has already made new arguments, which I believe has benefited from the debate - thank you very much for that - for example, we have learned that it is necessary to protect workers who are being exploited by their employers as a result of your labour code. I myself believe that the answer is that the Code of Work must be amended, not any other legislation.
u2015-03-31-231	In two minutes, Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpát will have the floor.
u2015-03-31-232	Mr President, Dear House, For the sake of objectivity, we need to lay down a set of ground rules for multinational companies. As regards the need for intervention in this sector, the figure confirms that this entire sector is pumping some HUF 4000-4500 billion of capital out of the country annually, typically untaxed, either by hiding behind the lies of renting manufacturing technology or renting an IT system. It is no coincidence that the government, although wrongly, tries to intervene, since these large chains, although they show themselves to be loss-making, but in practice they generate a huge profit. Unfortunately, this difference is taken from the work of the Hungarian people and the fruit thereof. So the need for intervention exists, regardless of how we object to it, it is quite clear. What we need to see, however, is what I think all sober-minded forces together could support, an amendment to the labour code, a move in a good direction, according to which, let's say, the Sunday bonus could be put in place on a scale of between 100 and 120 percent. So it would be possible to set off on a fair path, with which I think everyone in Hungary would agree, apart from the author, that we do do do it fairly for the people who are in this situation or are forced to do it. Jobbik considers it very important to raise the afternoon allowance to a level that compensates for the loss on Sunday. And the extent to which this is necessary and the extent to which these multi-enterprises and networks do not bring benefits to Hungary is the best indicator of Eurostat's statistics that are now in force, which shows that there may be a tenfold difference between hourly labour costs in the EU, which last year ranged between 3.8 and 40.3 euros in the European Union. This is an average of 7.3 euros in Hungary. It is catastrophically low, and Hungarian workers are exploited, and this must be changed. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-31-233	Dear Parliament, I am not limiting anyone's right and opportunity to speak, and I recommend considering those who are asking for a third round to make a new argument as to whether they can contribute to the progress of the debate. So now it's time for a line of Members asking for a normal word. Mr László Kiss is the first person in this row to have the opportunity. Here you go.
u2015-03-31-234	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to talk to you about the fact that Mr. The population of the district, my constituency, is affected by this bill. I must say that I am less able to report such happy daily life, also because I spent the time asking the residents of the district about the introduction of this madness. We've been outdated in more than one place with my colleagues, we've been collecting data for several weeks, and I have to say, we've spoken to over a thousand people. I'm not saying it was a representative poll, but it still tells me a lot about what the population in my constituency thinks. [[22.50]] About 93 percent of the respondents rejected this idea to be closed on Sunday. Some people didn't like it because they bought on Sunday. [[András Tállai: That was the MSZP.]] Some people were not happy about this because they only bought it on Sunday, but some people were not happy about it because they didn't usually shop on Sundays, but very often we experienced the argument that others shouldn't tell us when to buy. I do not think, I do not see such arguments as to who is on the side of multinational or other companies, I am on the side of my constituents and the Hungarian people, so it is of paramount importance to me that the Hungarian people, especially with regard to the III. to the voters of the district III. The population of the district, what do you think of this issue. Well, you can say that the people I asked were given such an answer. But they could give such an answer because, for example, in my living environment, and this is not a small settlement, I repeat, the III. The panel building in the heart of the district of the district, in its immediate surroundings, but in the vicinity of 15-20 minutes, there are no shops that are open on Sunday. While, for example, there is the largest connected panel building in Central Europe, the village house, and, by the way, in the inner part of Óbuda, the residential part of my residence, so it is not that we did not find such shops living in a small outskirts, but that we did not find such shops living in a large district. It is clear to me that you have introduced this amendment in a very clear manner by hurting a lot of people. While I am very fond of the arguments on the protection of workers. To be honest, I agree with everyone who talks about a lot of companies working on Sundays, and I wouldn't narrow it down to ownership, because there is a clear nature of capital relations, and there is also a clear nature of exploitation, so I agree with everyone who talks about reducing working on Sundays. I also agree with the person who is talking about the fact that it is unacceptable for workers to be exploited by their employers on Sunday. I just can't really go along with it being because of your legislation, by the way. I cannot go further than that you have reduced the allowance for Sunday work from 100% to 50 percent, or that the allowance for afternoon work has been abolished, nor that your laws allow exploitation of what workers are victims of today. Besides, I can't leave. And if we're talking about you trying to protect those working on Sunday, I don't understand why you've withdrawn your proposal to increase your Sunday allowance. Why did the MSZP not support hundreds of amendments at the time, which, for example, wanted to rebuild this bonus? Why don't you think about it? Indeed, if we were to talk in this House about 100 percent or 120 percent of Sunday allowances, that would be a pleasant conversation. I think we can get a consensus on this soon, because I don't stick to 100 percent, I can do more. From me, we can incorporate any other rules on how to prevent employers from exploiting the employee. I am extremely flexible in this, and I also have a very wide imagination. So what I can tell you is that the MSZP is definitely in favour of this direction. Let us note, fellow Members, that they are quite simply not telling the truth when they use this argument. Unfortunately, that's not true. It is not true because you did not support any decision that would affect the direction in which the Hungarian worker would not be exploited, either on Sunday or from Monday to Saturday. Neither the MSZP nor other parties, nor even their own parties, have been withdrawn. So that's the fact. So this argument, please don't use it, because it's not valid, it's not true, it's not real. The other part of this is that you talked about, Mr Secretary, that there were all kinds of discussions here. Several of my fellow Members have already said a few words about how much time has been available for this discussion to take place. After 15 March, my fellow Member, Szilágyi, spoke about this, saying that there was a great deal of time, even five days, to conduct this discussion. But I have no doubt that your negotiations can take place in a minute. I don't think there's been any more serious negotiations, by the way. For example, if you have read from an open letter from the mayor of Tokaj, in which you asked that this current law not be introduced, that you are on a very good path, congratulations. If the petitions of the flower shopkeepers with which you sought me out, I suppose, not only me as a Member, but perhaps you too, they have concluded that you are on the right track, I would also very much like to congratulate you on that. If from the statement by István Tarlós - who, if I remember correctly, is the mayor of Fidesz, a small town called Budapest, this is the capital of our nation - which was about his disagreement with this law and would not have introduced it, well, if you have come to the conclusion from this statement that this law is necessary, then again I congratulate you. If that party about KDNP, which has spread over the Internet for a few days, which I do not think is a very nice word, you have concluded that you are on the right track, I would also like to congratulate you on that. If these were all part of the discussion, etaps of what you are talking about, then I would like to congratulate you on this result. But I'm afraid that you didn't put these events in the right order, from which you didn't come to the conclusion you should have, that is, what the MSZP claims is that this proposal and the original proposal for this, if you like, is basic disease and this other disease actually belongs in the trash. That is the conclusion you would have had to draw if you had actually conducted these discussions. That's not how it happened. If, therefore, we accept that you have agreed to die in five days, then I do not believe that if this had happened, this would have been the result. It's quite simply my doubt. Of course, I am glad that they were able to find a group for which this is good. By the way, I have been waiting for this argument, and it took weeks for them to find a group, a layer, which they can identify as a positive group. This seems to have succeeded, now only 90 percent of the population have to explain why this law doesn't have to land in the trash can, why it didn't go where it was supposed to be. But if I can go back to my own constituency business, you know, it's simple, as you said earlier, I'm a panel-prol, I do my own shopping on Sundays, but now I don't. Interestingly, there are two stores near me, all of them CBAs. Obviously, it has nothing to do with you guys doing a chain of stores in an extraordinary way, but it's fate. So there are two CBAs near me, I'll say it again, and in each one, interestingly, the evening work has increased significantly, given that these shops are now open until 10:00 p.m. Of course, this happened by accident. However, if we see what workers in these shops are faced with, they are faced with having to complete the same working hours as before, but they are now not receiving the Sunday allowance, which, of course, is less than you had before, but less than 30 per cent. So in Hungarian, their wages are falling. But even they were better off than those workers who were threatened by you to release them, or even to do so. When we're in a city with our eyes open, it's like the third. In the district, we see that every day we are colliding with the harmful nature of your activities, of this law. Please, if you really believe that workers should be helped, and this is not just a matter of speaking on your part, please increase the supplement for Sunday work. There are other ways to force employers not to exploit the employee on Sundays or other occasions. Be sure to prevent the employee from being spotted with the evening allowance you currently provide as a handout and to raise this bonus. If that's what's driving you. [[23.00]] I don't think so, I'll tell you honestly, because that's not what your legislation pointed to at this time. If we are talking about the laws that you have passed on Sunday's closure, I must say that I am criticising my fellow Member Szilágyi. I don't think there's a man in this country who has serious faith in the professionalism of Fidesz legislation. In December 2012, you made 65 laws. It's in a legislative textbook, so you're in the legislative textbook. 40 percent of these 65 laws were not in force by the end of December 2012. So, in general, in your legislation, it is common to say that it is customary for you to do so and then to amend it, where appropriate, to introduce personalised laws, and, where appropriate, to amend the law in a week's time. It's usually typical, it didn't just start, it was already in the previous cycle. Therefore, in general, I think that there are not many people in this country who trust that you are actually making a professional law, and I do not think that even you, in that sense, can much lessen the credibility of the law. Of course, it makes me smile when we talk about the fact that there is a law that can be corrected with a grammatical replacement to an even less Hungarian, but in itself it is not a curiosity, we have seen much of it. Of course, it's not good that that's true. But it's not surprising, because you have also changed the basic law of granite more often than my car has been rewritten, even though it's 15 years old, so it's not such a János Lázár luxury miracle, but I have to say that it's owned less often than the basic law of granite strength. There's something else to say, basically all of your laws are in line with this tampering. Please, this won't do you any good. If you have already decided on a course, at least try to make the right legislation so that legislation can move in that direction. Finally, I would like to thank my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z., for giving praise to me, but I am afraid that the Socialist Party should be praised, not me. I said the position of the MSZP when I presented my proposals on the Code of Labour, more specifically the proposal of the MSZP. That's why I'm saying they didn't get a good sense of the position of the MSZP. We don't think that, and I'd still say that anyone should be obliged to work on Sundays. We believe that the exploitation of workers must be stopped. We have therefore also tabled legislative proposals and tabled amendments. We support all the efforts of the government to change the code of current bad work that you have adopted, and we do not agree very much with virtually a sentence of which concerns employee obligations. Well, let's change that; we agree that the workers' allowances, especially for the Sunday bonus, should increase to up to 100% or above. We agree with any proposal that would increase the potential for exploitation of workers. So, fellow Members, if you have such a proposal, feel free to do so, we will certainly think together on this and we will agree. But I ask you very much that these arguments are only used if you lower the foot that is about this. Right now, all we see are protesting mayors of Tokaj, angry people, shopkeepers who fear for their jobs or earn less. We don't see much else. I would ask you to consider not going further in this direction, considering putting forward a bill that really represents the interests of the people. Thank you for listening.
u2015-03-31-235	Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik!
u2015-03-31-236	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to respond to a happy congressman who once again brought up what Jobbik has submitted. We've already told you what we submitted, by the way. But if you wish, Congressman, we will copy it, we will give it to you so that it can be read. So it's not what you're saying. But consider that we would have submitted the same in 2010. You don't think we can change our minds? We don't feel like we have the Philosopher's Stone as you feel. By the way, you're smiling at that right now, but I'm telling you honestly, I'm not mad at you, either. I am not angry that in 2012, I and Congressman Staudt presented a bill that you have not allowed to come before this House. You didn't stand up for him, you didn't raise your word, because I think in 2012, you felt that this bill that we tabled was not so important. Then two and a half years passed, and now you think it's important, and you've submitted the same, stricter criminal sanctions for theft of non-ferrous metal disrupting the operation of a public service plant. I'm saying he's evolved, he's listened to people, he felt it was important, and he submitted it. That's why I'm not mad. I'm happy for him because it will be in the best interests of the people if we can accept this law. That's why we submitted it in 2012, and you didn't support it at the time, and you didn't support it. We believe that all of us believe that being a Member of Parliament is not a privilege. It's supposed to be a service. It should be a service, and if we make a bad decision, if we have a bad idea, and we realize that people don't like it, so we don't want to give them dictatorships, we're trying to work for us, and we see that they don't like it, and we can't convince them that it's good for you, then we have to change that. We're asking you to do the same. They submitted this law, and they said because they thought it might be the same way KDNP thought it would be good, by the way. Then he was good for nothing but that as a muse they were supposed to inspire the Hungarian music industry and contribute to the creation of songs that have been heard on the Internet since then. That's what it was for. Now, that needs to be changed. The other thing I'd like to say is that you're saying we're multi-party. We are not multi-party, but I also stress to you that we are not anti-multi-national. So we are not against multinationals, we are against exploitation. Our problem is not that there are multinational companies in this country, our problem is that in the last 25 years, no one has tried to force these multinationals to operate fairly in Hungary. If a multi-company operates fairly in Hungary, we have no problem with it. You are saying, too, that what will happen to these multinationals then, and here we are expanding the trade, that they will then, of course, force the workers to work on Sundays. That can be prevented. You can help me with that. Sit down with Tesco or whatever, with the Auchan employees' union, and figure out a way to enforce workers' rights. Oh, they can't sit down because they can't have a union in a multinational? Now, that's one of the responsibilities. This should have been the basis for you in five years, for example, so that multinationals also have trade union activities! Because a multinational can't have a trade union activity. Or what do we want? What we want - and I do not know what they have done in the last five years - is that the wages of people working in multinationals are at least closer to the wages of the workers working in Western Europe in the same multinational. Because it could be a fundamental thing. He's doing the same job, the cashier's doing the same thing he's doing in Germany, only his salary is a quarter. These would be the efforts made in the interests of workers that could indeed be achieved in these areas. Or what's on the shelves of these stores. But I'll tell you something else. They talk about families so they can really be together on Sunday. Do you know who is not affected by this provision at the moment? The workers who work for a multinational company with whom you have concluded a strategic contract, but this is not a commercial unit, but, say, a factory. Because what about the people who work in the factories with whom you have a strategic agreement on Sunday? Of course, it doesn't affect them, they can't go shopping because they work on Sundays - but they're not with their families either! Here's the problem. We should not hurry, we should not make decisions and we should submit laws that people do not like. Once again, I am not trying to object to the fact that you may have done it with good intentions, that you may have really thought so, or that KDNP also thought that it would help people, that it would help families. [[23.10]] But the problem is, when it turns out that you're the best with good intentions, but you're not helping, and people don't like it, then you're still rigid about your idea and you're not willing to change it. There's a problem. And then you see that, let alone helping people, but at present with such a system of legislation, this is almost impossible. There's always a loophole. I don't want to give you ideas right now. Do you know how many other ways this Sunday's open hours can be played? Do you know how many other ways we can work this out? As has been done in the case of petrol stations, there has already been an attempt to circumvent this, and we have made this amendment, which I spoke about in March, in vain. We didn't get it because we won't be able to separate the two units from each other, and they're gonna be selling gasoline, so those stores are gonna be open. And I don't want to give you any more tips. But what if we open small businesses, say, if any, and say, to our employees the moment we enter, we give him a share? What's going to happen in that company? Owner. He's gonna own that company, and if he doesn't exceed 200 square feet, what's gonna happen? They can open up. So I can tell you a lot of things. If something's wrong, you have to think about it, you have to sit down, and believe me, you're more sympathetic to people, if you say it's good, we're wrong, it's not good, you don't like it, we're trying to change it. And here's the thing that's gonna change that we're gonna say that, of course, you're saying that you're gonna be forced to do it, and I'm saying that I'm not sure that you're gonna be forced to do it, because if we're gonna set a salary that's that high right now, let's say, at the opening hours on Sunday, we might do the same thing. Because those employers say that it's not worth it for me to pay my employees that much, I'm not gonna open on Sunday. If it's worth it to him, then who did good? For a worker who says it's good, it's okay, I'll take the job on Sunday, but my monthly salary is going to increase immediately. That's what we're saying: let's let the people decide. Let us create conditions to put workers in a position to make the right decisions, put them in a position to make the right decisions, and they will be able to decide responsibly whether they are working or being at home with their families. Just as you are responsible for deciding today that you are the only person from the ranks of Fidesz-KDNP, a person who is not obliged to be here, because it is mandatory for Mr. Secretary of State to be here, who is still with you, because otherwise we could not negotiate, but I say that I think you were able to decide whether to be at home with your family or to consider this matter so important to be here. I meant this as a compliment, so don't be mad at me right now. I said that you thought it was important to be here, sit here, or the rest of the subject, and, as you said, be in Parliament for 13 and a half hours, and have decided for yourself, for example, to be here and not to do anything else. Let's leave that to the people. And if something's wrong, there's no shame in admitting that we were wrong about something. Once again, you may be trying to make this look like a weakness, but I think it's more sympathetic to people if we can admit our mistakes. Everyone makes mistakes. We too will make mistakes in our governance. There will be certain things, but I can promise you that when we make mistakes, we will admit it and change this situation. I will regret that you will probably not be able to see this in Parliament by then. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-31-237	It's a two-minute lap. First, I give the floor to Congressman István Happy, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2015-03-31-238	Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to remind László Kiss that in the original debate of the law, I made exactly the same arguments, so if he had been here, he would surely remember it or perhaps draw up the minutes. Mr Szilágyi, I understand that your opinion is changing, because, for example, your opinion has changed a lot in political job accumulation. After we have eliminated the possibility of political accumulation between the congressman and the mayor, while you have two county representatives in Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County who also receive a fee in the local council, such as a representative in Jászberény, who is sitting in the county assembly, both political actions, and some reports that he has almost more of the two honor fees than the mayor of Jászberény. But by the way, your representative in Tiszaföldvár is exactly the same. So I can see it's changing. When you're in that position, there's nothing wrong, there's going to be a political pile of jobs. It is the same with this law, because it is clear that you are now absolutely saying that Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises no longer matter, there is no need to give them an advantage, it is important that everyone can open up. In fact, it would drive small and medium-sized businesses into a competition that anyone who gives more wages on the weekends should be open. Can you imagine that a village shop or a retailer can give more than a multinational company, pay? He won't be able to give you any more. If they're gonna tell you to pay 10 thousand forints a Sunday for the employee, then the shopkeeper will close, and the multi will be exactly the advantage. So I understand that their opinion has changed, because now it seems like a popular topic for big shops to be open on Sundays, because many people go to big shops, I understand that, but believe me, the interests of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises want them to be open on Sundays rather than multinational companies, and they can be open on Sundays. It's the only advantage to them that this Sunday, only those who work in their own business can be open. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-31-239	Congressman Nándor Gúr in two minutes.
u2015-03-31-240	Thank you very much, Mr. President. They shut down factories, hospitals, now Sunday stores. I ask you, with all due respect, don't want to close school or kindergarten on a weekday, because that's gonna be a problem for parents who can still work. So let's consult first. Not necessarily with me, with us, no; so with the sum total of society. My second request is not to talk about the interests of employees here, not. Act for them. At the time when the law is being passed, 2012 is the Labour Code, and now, when again in the list of draft laws somewhere around May, if I am well aware of the Code of Work, they should be able to stand up for the sentences that they have not told us today, they just suggested. If, already in 2012, they did not support the fulfilment and enforcement of workers' interests and the creation of a better existence, then they should do so at least now, in 2015. And in the context of Sunday's closure, consider that Hungarian SMEs, small businesses, retail units, who are on a surface of less than 200 square meters, owners or relatives, are not important for them on Sunday? They don't want it? My happy fellow Member says that they should earn income. Don't make me laugh. Anyone else not? Do they? They don't need Sunday peace, do they not need what my fellow Member Tállai is talking about, so that there will be a time, both health and psychologically and in other ways, for him to be able to work properly next week? Either it's the same, or it's not the same, it's the same. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Consult and create laws that serve the interests of the people. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-03-31-241	Congressman Szilágyi, Jobbik, two minutes.
u2015-03-31-242	Thank you very much. Congressman, you don't understand, I see. So I'm gonna have to ask you for two minutes. I didn't want to do two minutes. I will tell you once again: you should be strengthened to ensure that employees in multinational trading companies are paid the same amount of wages as workers are paid in Western European businesses. And, yes, it could be determined that, say, on Sunday, you can work your employees for a high wage. And then you come and twist the words with the SMEs. How do you think they can work now, and not according to you, according to the law, these little shops are supposed to work on Sundays? How can they be open, what you're saying now, how good it is and all that? I mean, it's either the owner or his family member working in there. Do you think the owner will pay himself or his family? He's not gonna pay. Are you going to object to this provision? It won't apply to him. Can you be open the same way? 'Cause you just said you wouldn't be able to be open, 'cause you're gonna have to close the store. You don't have to close the store, because he's gonna work for himself in this store the same way, or one of his close relatives. Then it doesn't apply to him if we raise Sunday's wages. But who does it apply to? It will apply to multinational trade chains. [[23.20]] It could also apply to multinational trade chains if the cashier sitting there didn't earn as much as they're giving him right now, but would earn as much as he did in Germany; but don't earn as much, let's raise this salary to at least 70-80 percent. Do you know how much improvement that would make? Do you have any idea what a boost it would give the entire economy if the multinationals had to get closer to the pay they're getting out of Western Europe? It would also have a tremendous pull on the other sectors, but you do not deal with it, because in Hungary it is so good - you said - that you can live from forty or thousands of forints, according to you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-31-243	Congresswoman Márta Demeter, MSZP.
u2015-03-31-244	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask Mr Happy Member for a little help, just to sum up three important things that he said - this meeting is so interactive, as I can see - that I understood correctly. So a very important argument and goal, if I understand correctly, is to help families by helping the convenience stores. The other is that people can solve the shopping process, so you really see that keeping closed on Sunday is not going to be a big problem, because you say that citizens can be raised in this direction, so everyone will try to do their shopping during the week, during long hours, and this will not cause any more disruption, if I understand correctly. And the third very important thing is that they can best help families and convenience stores by making people buy there on Sunday, because they're the only ones that will be open on Sunday. To be honest, if these three stand up for themselves - I think I understand you correctly - then there is some faulty story in this argument. Let us assume that if everyone arranges shopping during the week, then who will shop in the convenience stores on Sunday, because on Sunday - as my fellow Members have said - these families, because families will work together there on Sundays, because they have taken care of this, will be sitting in the convenience store, which, by the way, will be created from their own capital. So we need a start-up capital, we need a stock, so we're not talking about those who live in the greatest poverty; they're gonna be sitting in the convenience store waiting for customers. But if it's not a problem and people shop during the week, who's gonna shop in the convenience store? Who's gonna buy those products? From now on, the products will be more expensive, and these convenience stores will also go bankrupt. So I don't understand how you'd like to help the convenience stores if we accept the argument you're saying anyway. So here I see a bump in it. Another important argument is not to force anyone to work on Sunday. Then what do you do with these families, the convenience stores, if you don't force them to work on Sunday? I mean, if they want to make a living, they have the opportunity to keep it open, they have to keep it open. And by the way, what about the other people who can't be forced to work on Sundays? And by the way, they're forced to work a lot longer on weekdays. If, by the way, the aim was to protect workers, then perhaps, as my fellow Members have said, we should have done a code of work and adopted the hundreds of amendments that we have tabled, which actually protects workers, rather than constantly favouring employers, and, by the way, facilitates the tailor-made legislation that we see that, by the way, Fidesz is very popular and almost basic. So the result will be that after a while, people will not be able to buy in a small store or a large store, since tens of thousands of people are expected to be released from work because of this irresponsible behaviour, because of legislative behaviour. Actually, no one in the world is gonna benefit from this. I think if we accept your argument, even those you would otherwise like to protect with this law. To be honest, I find it pathetic that in five years, KDNP - I'm sorry that their representatives are not here - was the only suggestion it made that could be fooled by some ultimatum, extortion, in any way through Fidesz. That's Sunday's lockdown, so congratulations. For five years, KDNP should be on every day to keep the government aware of the incredible poverty that government decisions cause in Hungary, how many millions of people live in poverty. That would be their job, not to mess with such petty proposals, which are not good for anyone, which again allow for personalised legislation, allow loopholes, and bring people into an incredibly difficult situation. So what we're seeing is that the two governing parties are dealing with each other, dealing with laws, dealing with friends. I would also like to know, in the case of Mr Happy, that when he started his political career in Fidesz at the time of the change of regime, he imagined this and imagined his political career, because, although he is here in Parliament, I think it is mainly the work of the last five years that he cannot be proud of at any level. I wonder if that was what it was supposed to be and what it was supposed to be in 89. Thank you.
u2015-03-31-245	We have a two-minute application, Congressman László Kiss. Here.
u2015-03-31-246	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. In fact, I may be flattered, but I didn't think it was possible that I could not be seen in such a room. I was also involved in the debate on the law that my fellow Member mentioned, and unfortunately he does not remember me, even though I remember he was already arguing about your labour code, as he has done now. There is no problem with that, I like these directions, because I have the same problem with your labour code, which is also for you, but I do not understand why you did not support the amendments made by the MSZP at the time, which would have wanted to find an answer, among other things. Of course, I obviously think that, despite this, I respect those Members who are pro and versus those who make their arguments in this House, so I think that everyone who has stayed until late and said their own position has certainly done so to ensure that Hungarian democracy prevails, even if, for example, KDNP, the master of ideas and viruses, has not been able to do so. Therefore, I also respect my fellow Member when he makes his point, even if I have to say that I do not agree with you in many respects. So I'm sorry, when you get that kind of criticism, but you're the only one who gets paid for it, and everyone else does. It is right to have these debates here. In fact, I think the solution is to fight exploitation, to combat exploitation of workers, to legislate for that, and to do the same for you. The interesting point in this debate is that if, of course, working on Sundays alone means exploitation, then obviously families who are forced to work on Sundays as a result of your proposals will also be victims of exploitation, only they will take advantage of themselves; this is not good either. I think that you should put in place laws that protect workers, and then everything will be fine. Thank you for listening.
u2015-03-31-247	Meanwhile, Congressman Nándor Gúr checked in as a plain word applicant.
u2015-03-31-248	Excuse me, that was the glass. I'm sorry.
u2015-03-31-249	I've had more joy than that in a long time. [[Applause, applause.]] So I'm going to ask you if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm pretty sure you didn't. Dear Parliament, As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he wants to answer. [[On the mark of András Tállai:]] The Secretary of State says yes. Here you go.
u2015-03-31-250	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would certainly like to say two things, both of which are about what was not discussed here tonight. Firstly, there was no debate on the bill, so there was no debate on what is in this bill. If we had now scissored the part of the Members' contributions on the bill, I think we would have been home at nine o'clock, which is sad enough, by the way, because according to this, the house rules are still not strict enough. [[Anita Herring: Keep it tight! The intervention of György Szilágyi.]] Or maybe there's another reason. [[23.30]] However, the bill is simply about whether or not to engage in commercial activities in a world heritage area. That is what this bill is about, and not about what you have been arguing about, say, whether trading in one district of the capital can be done on one side of the road for multinational companies, and on the other side it cannot be done. Answer this question, what do you think is right or wrong? Or is it right that this activity can or cannot be carried out in one of the settlements in a holiday zone. It is true that this was left in the law, so we accepted it, and now we would like to amend it, precisely as a result of the negotiations, because others, who are affected by this, cannot open the business, said that this is unfair, and that there is no such distinction, and otherwise there is no such distinction, because the exceptions, which are in 14 points of the law or in the bill, are not based on geographical differences or classifications, but on activity. That's what we should have argued about. But you can't argue about it, because everyone understands that you can't oppose it, because this law will be just. The other very interesting thing: the same arguments were made as in the repeated debate of the law, we did not hear any new arguments, but one thing was left out of opposition arguments - and perhaps this is the point of tonight. [[György Szilágyi: The article!]] I missed out on job losses because I was here at the first general debate of the law, and then everyone here was talking about it behind my back. [[Nándor Gúr: Because you weren't listening!]] that jobs will be lost, people will not have jobs, and how bad it will be. [[Nándor Gúr: This is selective amnesia!]] The same arguments have been made this evening, but it seems that you have discovered that this is no longer true. [[Nándor Gúr: The claim is untrue!]] and the law has been in force for two weeks now, and the shops are already in place, but you are no longer arguing because you have realized that it is not true that jobs are falling. [[László Kiss: That's not true! Nándor Gúr: You don't even know what the debate was about!]] So thank you very much for that, and this is a lesson for me tonight that the opposition has realised that jobs will not be lost. [[Nándor Gúr: You don't even know what you're talking about.]] But that's how it's gonna be with the other arguments. I don't want to stress the arguments of the MSZP, they're looking at the polls, so if more people don't support it, they're gonna have to step up. But it's not just this poll we should be looking at. [[Anita Beringes: Oh, we represent the interests of the people?]] but also the opinion poll of the party's support, and then it will be necessary to measure the opinion in Parliament, not as Nándor Gúr, who is judging and threatening his speeches on a regular basis, and then, at the very end, completely shockingly stupidizes me personally. Thank you very much. [[Nándor Gúr: You don't say!]] I do not really understand Jobbik's argument, as this bill is essentially the one implementing their bill submitted in 2010. [[Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] Because you have obviously written in the bill that only Hungarian shops will be open, it is quite obvious that the European Union will not allow this. Now they do not want to leave the European Union, so that this law could not have essentially entered into force or if it had entered into force, it should have been withdrawn. It is precisely this bill that is implementing your vision, but in such a way that the European Union cannot get involved in this either, because do not tell me that, among the exceptions, there will be foreign citizens and multi-owners in shops below 200 square meters. It's all Hungarian people, it's all Hungarian people! [[Nándor Gúr: Doesn't that have a Sunday?]] Or don't tell me at the market or at the fairs [[Nándor Gúr: Doesn't he have a family?]] then foreign people will sell food, as well as food or anything else, because the activity is prohibited. So Jobbik should not be opposed to this bill, but should support it, because your 2010 vision is here in this bill. That's why it's a little shocking that Jobbik is like this, but they want to be cute, popular. [[Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks.]] They read the poll, it says that two thirds of people don't support it, and if I understand it correctly, then two parties will win the election: the MSZP will win the election, and Jobbik will win the election. [[Noise, interruptions.]] I'm telling you, just like you've forgotten all the arguments that jobs are gonna go away. [[Anita Herring: We told you!]] They're not gonna win the election, so they're definitely not gonna win it. What's more, I'm predicting to you that in 2018 the campaign will no longer be a topic, nor will it be your campaign topic, whether or not the shops should be opened on Sunday. [[Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks.]] It's actually just your theme, your political theme here. [[Anita Beringes: And the man of the street!]] They think they'll be able to increase their popularity. They're wrong. [[György Szilágyi: We are increasing, Secretary of State.]] Now I'm telling you, neither the Jobbik nor the MSZP are gonna win, because that's what they both want now. [[Noise, interruptions. Anita Beringes: The interests of the people must be addressed!]] There were many, many misconceptions, especially Nándor Gúr does not really understand the bill; he talks about festivals, lack of hospitality. You have to read the bill overall, and then you realize that this is not the case. Finally, a personal remark: I did not quite understand why Mr Szilágyi told me that I was laughing at what Anita Heringes said as an example. [[György Szilágyi: Because he laughed, that's why!]] The example was that now the university student will stop his university studies because his mother is for sale, and his income is falling, and the exact income was lacking in order to pay the university... [[György Szilágyi: I didn't say that!]] That's what I meant. [[György Szilágyi: I said you couldn't work, Mr. Secretary of State!]] No, he gave me two examples of a college student, and the other one gave me this example. [[György Szilágyi: It was about student work, he didn't listen!]] I think the mother won't make less money because [[Nándor Gúr: You should have at least been here in thought!]] With everyday extra work, which László Kiss here has confirmed is that they work more on a weekday, now, for that extra work, you will get the wages that you have received on Sunday. In exchange, she'll be home. [[Nándor Gúr: Yes, with zero percent afternoon allowance.]] And your father, he was right, wasn't he? Well said. Public employment is a job, and Fidesz gave it to him. [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP.]] So the opposite is that their child can go to college now because the husband is a public worker and lives on the job and earns more and can finance it from it. [[Anita Herring: No, that's why you have to work, you know?]] So Anita Heringes' example is inappropriate; I'm not saying she wasn't telling the truth, but it's not appropriate. Ladies and Gentlemen, I'm falling for the same mistake that you guys are talking a lot about, but not the point. Let's get back to the point. The point is, thank you for taking out of your arguments that jobs will be lost [[György Szilágyi: Nobody took it out!]] One argument has failed in two weeks, and so will the rest of their arguments. [[Nándor Gúr: Nobody took it out! You should have at least been here when we talked about this.]] Thank you very much for your opinion and your attitude.
u2015-03-31-251	Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. We now have an after-the-meet speech. After the agenda, MEP Ádám Mirkóczki, notary of the National Assembly, asked for a speech with the title: "The Transcarpathia in peril." Mr. Messenger, you have the floor.
u2015-03-31-252	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I asked for the floor today in relation to Transcarpathia because I would like to draw attention to a very important crisis, and I would like to remove some misconceptions that appear at certain times in today's various press orgy regarding Jobbik and its Transcarpathia. I think it is important to note this, and to encourage other factions and representatives of other parties to visit Transcarpathia today, as long as it is possible and worthwhile and there is someone to help, because I put it delicately if I say that the problem is great. [[23.40]] Recently, a better delegation visited the Munkács-Ungvár-Beregszász triangle for a few days, and we had the opportunity to meet several town, village, small town, village mayors, church leaders, representatives of civil society organisations and school directors. There is only one goal that motivated us to get a realistic picture, not to judge or appreciate the situation that, unfortunately, is affecting Transcarpathia today, based on the supposed or real propaganda of the various media organisations. It is part of the fact that such better visits are always accompanied by a lying press propaganda that we are turning, inciting, hating, turning groups of peoples or coming together national minorities. Not at all, and I think we've proven that, and we're going to prove it in the future. There is only one goal that motivates us how we can help Transcarpathian Hungarians, how we can save the present and the future, so that they can stay in their homeland and homes. At these many, many meetings that we have compressed into a few days, we have gained a terrible picture and experience, because a disaster in which our national brothers live every day, and how no future is in front of them, and how they do not see the light at the end of the tunnel, this has been confirmed by almost every conversation. The biggest problem now is that the Ukrainian economy, including Transcarpathian Hungarians, and virtually everyone, is hit by an incredible level of inflation. The other is that there is a huge, unprecedented increase in energy prices in Ukraine right now, and virtually one payment is no longer sufficient for a gas bill or electricity cost. It is a pleasure to see and experience that in Hungary different groups, denominations, NGOs or parties are trying to help, as we are trying to do, of course, but I would like to speak to them in order to be informed first. I am delighted with the help, the zeal and the collection, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that there is no missing item in Transcarpathia. Don't help me with that, and don't help me by collecting three families of clothes or dry food, but rather by raising money. There is only one thing out there that is a significant majority of the people of the Hungarians outside and, by the way, of Ukraine: money. Because what we have is devalued, and unfortunately not slowly enough for anything. If anyone wants to help, do it in cash. And then it helps double, because on the one hand, you can buy from Hungarians outside, companies outside, and actually help with what the people who live there need. It's not helping if a lot of trucks, let's say, are gonna be stuck on some border, and they're gonna be victims of various corrupt transactions, and it doesn't help if a needy family gets the 73rd coat or washing powder because that's not what they need. The problem is great, and there is a threat that if the political or military situation escalates, then complete villages and settlements will be eliminated, as the male population of the 20s and 30s slowly vanished. The big question is which ethnicities will fill the settlements of the Hungarian population, which are still of Hungarian majority, with the migration resulting from internal migration coming to their place. That's why it has to be done. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-31-253	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its meeting at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed. Good night. [[Meeting ended at 23:44 p.m.]]
