u2015-05-30-0	Good morning. Dear Parliament, The 35th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that Erzsébet Schmuck and József Attila Móring will be attending the meeting to help me. Welcome to our guests and everyone who's watching our work. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law on the foundation of Hungary's central budget for 2016 will follow until its closure. The submission is T/4884. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Béla Glattfelder, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Economy, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2015-05-30-1	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill on Hungary's central budget for 2016 clearly shows that the aspects determining our work have not changed. As always from the beginning, the goals of job creation, support for families and economic recovery are at the heart of our efforts. Hungary has successfully overcome the aftermath of the crisis in recent years, and is now considered among the most competitive European countries. Due to a marked improvement in the external economic indicators of the Hungarian economy, international credit rating agencies also vote in confidence in our plans and measures, and we continue to work. External observers also believe that our country's economy is performing better than expected, but we know that we have achieved our results at the expense of all our hard work. We will continue, as always, to fight for success, because the country's effectiveness gives working people the opportunity to work and earn a decent living. We do our job, as the Hungarian people do, and that is what they expect us to do. The bill before you has been prepared and submitted in the light of their interests. Mr President, Dear House, In the bill on the foundation of Hungary's central budget for 2016, we propose to amend 18 laws to establish the objectives described above. Please allow me to highlight some of the proposed ones. First of all. With regard to the amendment of the Act on the Economic Stability of Hungary, the regime for the reduction of the sovereign debt indicator to be defined in the Central Budget Act will be changed. The current debt formula was in line with the situation in which it was born, when the performance of the economy was much weaker and the rate of inflation was much higher. However, in the Hungarian economy an era of economic growth and very low inflation, which was not yet hoped for. In the recent opinion of the Fiscal Council, attention was also drawn to the fact that the deficit resulting from the current debt rule would require a balance improvement which would unduly reduce the performance of the national economy and have a number of other negative consequences. It should therefore be defined and amended in line with the Basic Law. By means of the proposed amendment, the current rule will remain in force in the event of financial deterioration beyond the central bank's 3 per cent inflation target and economic growth above 3 per cent. In this case, when the economy is performing particularly well, the provision provides for a stricter fiscal policy. This has a countercyclical effect and complies with the generally accepted principle that, in the event of improved economic performance, the State should save and take advantage of the opportunity to reduce public debt. In a less favourable economic environment, in the case of inflation below 3 per cent and in the case of economic growth below 3 per cent, the government debt indicator should be defined as a reduction of at least 0,1 percentage points per year. This does not mean that the reduction of the debt indicator could not be greater, and even by requiring consistency in achieving the medium-term government deficit target, the required rule generally ensures a much greater reduction. The change is therefore in line with the expectations and achievements of the developing Hungarian economy. The new formula is coherent with the Basic Law, its methodology is simple, clear and transparent, and its professional basis reflects the proposals of the Fiscal Council and the State Audit Office and supports the country's and government's fight against sovereign debt. Dear House, The amendment also provides for the entry into force of the single-key corporation tax at a later date. In the Act on Economic Stability of Hungary, the National Assembly set a date on 1 January 2015 and on 1 January 2016 as the date of the introduction of the single-key corporate tax. However, given that corporate tax rules continue to provide an entrepreneur-friendly environment for taxpayers, the subsequent introduction of a single-key corporate tax will not harm economic operators and the conditions of a predictable tax system will remain unchanged. Thus, maintaining the resulting additional revenue for the financing of budget expenditure can be justified essentially without prejudice to any interest. From 1 July 2015, the bill will transform the tax liability related to the so-called Stability Savings Account. It is in the common interest of investors and the Hungarian state to plan, since, as they say, even a predictable opponent is better than an unpredictable friend. The Hungarian State wishes to be a predictable friend of investors, and therefore, in the event of a breach of investments held in the Stability Savings Account, the rate of tax payable is set at 20 per cent within one year and 10 per cent in the case of holding investments reaching one year. Under the current rules, the obligation to pay is reduced to below 16% only if the investment period reaches the fourth year. Thus, the proposal provides for much more favourable conditions for account holders in the medium term. The reduction of the rate linked to the duration of the investment will thus allow those amounts to be put into circulation as soon as possible, while greatly improving the investor environment in our country. However, as a result of the transformation, a minimum of 10 per cent of the tax liability will be unavoidable for individuals opening such an invoice in the future, but this is part of the expected, at the same time fair burden-sharing. The amendment limits the publicity of data relating to the financing and debt management of the central subsystem of public finances. The full knowledge of the financing plan would give the market access to information that could constitute a business secret that could jeopardise the financing of public debt at the lowest cost and result in market manipulation. This would result in disproportionate harm to the financial interests of the State and unauthorized influence, damage to our economic sovereignty which has been regained in recent years, and the income and investments of Hungarians would be reliant on speculation interests. The amendment also limits the publicity of the data generated during the budget planning that the government does not disclose when submitting the Central Budget Act. [[8.10]] The disclosure of background calculations, planning data and analyses generated during the planning process would reduce our competitiveness and jeopardise budget planning without external influence. However, we do not wish to hide, we have nothing to hide from citizens and representatives of the profession, so the Minister of National Economy will have the opportunity to disclose the data if it does not prejudice the country's financial and economic interests. The regulation should therefore not lead to a reduction in the transparency of budgetary management, as data on the management of budgetary bodies will continue to be data of public interest. The amendment only restricts as little as possible access to data the disclosure of which would adversely affect the country's financial interests. Ladies and Gentlemen, By amending the Public Finance Act, a new provision is drawn up that a budgetary supervisor may be assigned to state-owned companies that manage large investment projects through budgetary support. The budgetary supervisory system has been proven in many cases, so the government has seen that the well-functioning system should be extended to as many institutions as possible where public funds are managed. Inspectors can learn about the use of public funds in the management of public majority-owned companies, comment on internal rules on farming, take various measures laid down by law, and object to large-scale expenditure planning. Inspectors are interested in sound, efficient and balanced management. In search of better, simpler and cheaper solutions, they will be able to rely on each other's expertise in cooperation with the leaders of companies. The amendment to the Public Finance Act also allows the monitoring of the use of the budget support objective to include, in addition to the beneficiary, persons who contribute to the fulfilment of the grant relationship. Our aim is also to facilitate the efficient and efficient use of public funds. Dear House, Allow me to refer to section II of the bill. I should also like to say a few words about the important further amendments to the law in chapter 1 of this Official Journal. First of all, I would like to refer to the amendment of the advertising law. The bill abolishes the bonuses used to broadcast advertisements and establishes a 15 per cent advertising brokerage fee that advertisers have to pay to the intermediary. In the future, advertising agencies should only have contractual relations with the advertiser. An essential element of the regulation is that the advertiser would pay directly to the media the remuneration for the communication of his advertisement. When the legislation was drawn up, we followed the model in France, where agreements between media and agencies were regulated in a similar way already in 1993. According to our calculations, the agencies gained huge amounts of money within the previous regulatory framework, virtually without any meaningful work: the bonus allocated to advertising agencies could generally reach about 20-25 per cent depending on the remuneration of advertising, but also the rate of 50 per cent that may have occurred recently. The new system is essentially aimed at making advertising activities more transparent, and can also significantly reduce advertising expenditure for Hungarian businesses, increasing the domestic and international competitiveness of the Hungarian economy. During the amendment of the Law on Cemeteries and Funerals, we propose that Parliament set the target date for the introduction of a social funeral on 1 January 2017. If the proposal is adopted, a further year of preparation will be available for local governments, churches and other cemeteries in order to ensure that the application to individual circumstances can be designed in accordance with the objective of the law, thereby ensuring the use of the possibility for citizens who are not in a position to pay the funeral costs of hundreds of thousands of forints today. The possibility of a social funeral is independent of income conditions and can provide significant, real and large help to hundreds of families. We also want to change the laws on integrated supply of tobacco products. In order to eliminate different interpretations of the law, we propose a minimum two-month amendment to the entry into force of the relevant legislative provisions. The proposed amendment also clarifies the scope of the regulation in terms of the supply to the tobacco retail supplier and the obligation of the tobacco wholesaler to maintain it at all times with the tobacco retail supplier in order to ensure continued supply. By amending the law on the registration of citizens' personal data and addresses, the bill provides for the possibility for public authorities to verify and, to this end, require data from the personal data and address register which they are entitled to handle by law. The regulation strengthens the state of the public record, facilitates public administration, makes it cheaper and, most importantly, exempts customers from administrative burdens, thus providing customers with a faster and simpler procedure. However, it is important to point out that the regulation does not aim to use the data for the purpose of self-use and unauthorised use, and that, in the absence of a targeted management of the data, the controller would not be able to do so anyway. In the course of the amendment, therefore, we sought only simplification, strengthening public credibility and reducing the costs of procedures. Dear Parliament, To sum up, the bill tabled and presented before us constitutes a close union with the bill on Hungary's central budget for 2016 and serves as a basis for it, so I ask you to discuss and accept the bill. Thank you, this House, for the honored attention of the guests. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-30-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would remind you that the Parliament has decided to negotiate the general debate on this proposal within a five-hour time frame. I now ask Mr József Attila Móring to explain the time frame. Mr. Messenger!
u2015-05-30-3	Dear Parliament, The five-hour timeframe is divided into 103 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 57 minutes for the MSZP Group, 47 minutes for the KDNP Group, 51 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 31 minutes for the LMP Group and 11 minutes for the independent Members.
u2015-05-30-4	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the first round, the keynote speeches will take place in a 20-20-minute timeframe as a political group. I give the floor to Congressman Bence Tuzson, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2015-05-30-5	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, It is very important that this draft legislation, which is now before Parliament, is closely linked to the budget to be created by Parliament. This is particularly important because when we talk about the budget, we should always look back a little bit in time and see what a budget should be about. Our ancestors achieved a very great result in 1990, since the democratic institutional system was established in Hungary, and through the democratic institutional system, one of the most important things is that the country could take control of the determination of values through its elected institutional system, the determination of the values that apply either to a government cycle or even to a budget year. This was one of the greatest achievements at the time of the change of regime, that we could define values, and one of these institutions, one of these legislation, is the budget. It is a budget that always conveys the values that reflect the value system of a Parliament, a government, in this context we make laws, and we also create the underlying laws. [[8.20]] Now, in this case, we have a budget and legislation on which this is based, which sets very important goals. The very important goals are, on the one hand, the creation of jobs to create as many jobs as possible in Hungary, so that taxes can be reduced in Hungary. Taxes may decrease, because if the country's economic performance, the economic performance of the people allows this, then it is our duty to use the money that the country has produced, the economy has produced, on the one hand, for economic growth and job creation on the other hand, but to give it back to the people. This is why it is important that the next year's budget and the underlying legislation allow 170 billion HUF to flow back to people in the form of tax reductions next year. Let us not forget that personal income tax will decrease by 1 percent, which is part of a process, as it is a very important goal that in the long term this key can be below 10 percent in Hungary. It is also important to reduce the VAT on pigmeat, because we also know that we are talking about a lot that is very significant in the budget of families.In Hungary, the amount that people spend on pork is around HUF 130 billion, so the VAT reduction may result in an amount of around HUF 25 billion that can migrate back to people. In addition, there are a number of provisions in the budget, which also reflect values. For example, strengthening, continuing the system of family tax incentives, reflecting the goal of doubling the benefit that we had before for families with two children, making it double. This process should be launched this year; from 10 000 to 12 500 HUF, the discount that affects citizens, families and families with two children per child will be increased. These are important measures, and it is also important that the state also has a system of fees, there should be a transparent charging system, and we should also implement a kind of reduction in the public administration, we should introduce certain small fees, small taxes, small levies, which will affect about HUF 10 billion. The legislation before us now makes this possible, making it possible for the budget and the tax laws related to the budget to function properly in Hungary. Allow me to highlight some of the important elements of this legislative package that also reflect values, and are also important for the democratic institutional system in Hungary to function properly, and the values that we have undertaken have been taken up by the government to reflect them. Accordingly, it is of the utmost importance that we continue to fight - and this is the duty of all of us in this Parliament - against corruption, even if this corruption affects the economy, even if it affects the state. Accordingly, it is necessary, as has been said here in the Expo, to strive for transparency, a well-functioning institutional system and a financial system in the economic field. It should not be a situation where a person who is an economic operator should be forced to accept remuneration from both sides, either for his own good or by economic circumstances. It comes from two sides, such as advertising, advertising agencies, and pays from two sides. On the one hand, the person who wants to advertise hires the advertising agency, on the other hand, pays a commission fee, on the other hand, the advertising agency accepts a bonus from the person who publishes the advertisement, accepts a discount on the basis of which he receives an additional financial support. This, therefore, upsets the normal system in the economy, according to which when I conclude an order contract with someone, the trustee must act in the interest of the person with whom he has concluded the contract. The principal is often unknown to him, he did not know why he had actually concluded this contract when he concluded this contract; why he would no longer represent his interests on his behalf. This situation must be corrected, and corruption must also be removed from this area of the economy, because this can result in corruption in the economy. Accordingly, the proposal to make this chain absolutely clear is to be welcomed. Therefore, it will not happen that an important player in the economy can receive remuneration from two sides and accordingly the interest system will be distorted and not represent the interests that are in the interest of its principal. This matter must be clarified, and it must also be clarified, that it should accordingly receive a commission fee which is sufficient to enable it to perform its activities with honor. He must honour us, because we have an important goal of supporting people and businesses who are actually creating jobs; people who live from work on the other side, people who live from honest work in Hungary, and this legislation is also a way of promoting this. Thus, a 15% fee is set, which is sufficient to ensure that it is able to properly perform its activities, without having to receive a discount and bonus on the other side. We are therefore introducing a regime in this regard, a regulation developed by the market which has distorted, and this distorting effect has been recognised not only in Hungary, but also in various other countries, especially in France. In France, the regulation that was actually made in this respect in the 1990s is exemplary and should be followed, and a very good, well-functioning system was established there. These are the steps that we must take, and we must go on this path. The other rule, which I would like to highlight, and I consider it very important to have provisions of this type in the Hungarian legal system so that the economy can develop as much as possible, is the institution of the tax credit that is now included in the legal system. The question is that companies whose pre-tax results from one year to five times the other, i.e. significantly increasing, receive a tax credit benefit from the tax, which only means that they have to pay their corporate tax in quarterly instalments distributed over two years. This will help these otherwise dynamically developing companies - we are talking about not a few companies, by the way, because there are about 20 thousand companies in Hungary that can be affected by this provision - to invest, to create jobs, the funds that they themselves have created. Accordingly, the various incentive schemes should be developed. This provision is the same, and we hope that more and more such provisions will be included in the Hungarian legal system later on. Of course, it is important to pay attention to maintaining budget revenue, and it is therefore very good to have such a provision, which is not to generate budget revenues from the budget, but to give companies a discount that will help the economy to develop further while maintaining budget revenues. There are also a number of rules in this draft law, which are partly or largely technical in nature, but which facilitate the provisions of the basic objectives of the budget. The basic goals that help us, together with the government, to strengthen the middle layers in Hungary, and also those layers that are not yet part of the middle layers, are able to catch up with the middle layers. Widen the base on which a democracy, a democratic society, must be built in Hungary. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-30-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr Sándor Burány, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2015-05-30-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, In the beginning, the bill will be debated under special circumstances. Normally, we start building a house at the foundations, then we pull up the walls, then the roof gets on it, then the interior covers and other beauty works are done after the house is finished. This should also apply to the budget bill, but here we see that Fidesz and the government have started negotiating the bill in reverse order. [[8.30]] Amendments to the central budget bill and related tax laws could be tabled until yesterday afternoon. We might believe that the general debate on the budget has taken place with a decision already taken by this House on the laws on which the budget is based. However, this is not the case. After the general debate on the draft budget bill has been concluded, we will start planning, and at all, the debate on how the draft budget law should be established, which was completed yesterday after several hours of discussion in the general debate. So the Fidesz is sitting the other way, and the steering wheel is sitting on the horse. First, it presents the budget bill and then tries to establish it in a second bill. According to the most elementary rules of common sense and logic, this should have been exactly the other way around. We should have been over the debate on the basis of the budget bill, but instead it's the other way around. Let's start this now, and what we should have based on is the general debate that we had yesterday. This is a specific situation in the first place. But if that is what the legislators, more specifically, thought, because this reverse thought does not apply to all of us, then let us have this debate today. From this bill, ladies and gentlemen, the first thing that is absolutely clear is the complete lack of comprehensive strategic ideas. In essence, Fidesz has not had a consistent economic policy, precisely and in detail, for years, but we see continuous improvisation, ad hoc governance and the transfer of the government's will to the law. In this bill, which, according to form and content, should be the basis for the fiscal law, this is what we are witnessing. So let us begin to dissect this bill in a little bit more detail. The first is directly related to what I just mentioned, because this bill is a confession in the fact that the Fidesz government has broken its knife in the fight against sovereign debt. The Orbán government has come with very ambitious plans. He said that the public debt is at an extremely high level - he was not wrong about that, although I would also like to add that we are not alone in Europe, so we are not out of line, but it is a fact that the Hungarian government debt is much greater than what the economy should bear in healthy conditions. It was therefore a good objective that the Orbán government said that it would try to reduce this sovereign debt by all means at its disposal. However, there are two serious problems with this. One is that he has used all the tools available to the government that simply cannot be agreed with. After all, in order to reduce public debt, it took away pension savings of some HUF 3000 billion for more than 3 million. Just recently, a number of analyses have been provided as to how long the domestic pension system will last. Analysts estimate this to be about 10-15 years old. However, as a result of demographic trends, more and more pensioners' pensions have to be covered by fewer and fewer active workers' contributions. Under these circumstances, a forward-looking government does not reduce the opportunities to base the future pensions of current workers, but seeks to increase this. The Orbán government has done exactly the reverse of this, taking away these pension savings. These workers, who are now working today, will miss this HUF 3000 billion seriously, and no one will put this money into the system, because such an incredibly large amount of money will not be available to the governments at all. So this was an unacceptable tool. But let's see if the goal they wanted to serve with it has been achieved. The purpose of this free robbery, according to the Orbán government, was to reduce public debt with the help of this HUF 3000 billion. Well, while they took this 3000 billion forints away from people, this goal was not achieved at all. It was not achieved at all, the government debt under the Orbán government not only decreased but increased steadily year after year. Those are the hard facts. In the current bill, the government recognises this in a slightly modest, but not a bit blushingly, and proposes to abolish the debt formula which it has introduced. Of course, because by applying this debt formula, if we were to leave it unchanged, we would have to push the country at some HUF 700 billion in austerity, and this would be a brutal new restriction on the part of the Fidesz government compared to previous restrictions. Obviously, they couldn't have done that. However, they had to know precisely when introducing this debt formula, which is now to be abolished, that the objectives set in it will not be met. This rigorous debt formula was simply based on unrealistic economic growth ideas. It was simply a one-time communication action designed to deceive and reassure foreign investors, and here is the confession: they are unable to comply with the requirements of the debt formula themselves, not by external forces, as defined by themselves. Or, if they did, the price would be such a severe austerity that even the Orbán government would have seen in its practice, which would be so effeminate. In this context, you have therefore admitted that you have failed in the fight against sovereign debt, and instead of thinking about how to reduce public debt effectively, you are attempting to abolish the rule on this matter and to change it more precisely in this bill. In this context, there is another element of this bill, which is even more revealing, if you will, outrageous. In this bill, they will try to remove the provisions on the so-called Alliance against the State Debt Fund in silence. Well, the Collaboration on the Government Debt Fund has also been for far-fetched communication purposes from the outset, without any substantial assistance. Almost everyone in the country knew that, except for the few naive people who believed this government for a minute that they were serious about the fight against sovereign debt, and they personally helped to combat sovereign debt for a few million forints. They put their personal money, their savings, into the fund that had been known from the beginning to be unthinking, and the members of the government themselves didn't show any personal example and put serious sums into this debt fund, unlike some naive Fidesz-believing private individuals who made serious million-dollar sacrifices in order to get help from him in this struggle. At the same time, this struggle has failed, and this basis against public debt has died quietly. This is also proposed in this bill. Finally, one final line of thought on the fight against sovereign debt. Of course, you sometimes defend yourself by saying that, okay, it's true that you couldn't make a substantial reduction in public debt, but you fattened it to a good degree, but if you look at it compared to the performance of the economy, then this reduction can be shown. Yes, it can be detected, but it's far from meaningful. The reduction in this sovereign debt ratio by a few percentage points does not change, unfortunately, the heavy debt burden. That would require a much greater reduction. This would require either less borrowing or much more robust economic growth, but the economic policy of Fidesz is simply inadequate. [[8.40]] Moreover, this reduction of a few percentage points can only be achieved through various accounting techniques. It is well known that the main rule of the sovereign debt indicator, by the way, is a European rule, not a statistical average, but one day of the year, one day of the public debt review and compare it with the performance of the economy. The Fidesz government has tactically realised that there is no need to fight against public debt in general, that it is enough to focus on this one day, and if then we manage to keep the government debt to a minimum with different tricks, then, regardless of whether before and after this sovereign debt decides records, a technical reduction in the indicator can be detected. Unfortunately, this reduction is really just technical. Every year, this technical trick costs more and more money. Hundreds of billions of forints of money now need to be moved year after year, so that on this particular medaled day, when this indicator is measured, these should be sufficiently beautiful, and before and after that, whatever it takes or has to be, the government debt will break records. So much for this bill, quietly admitting that the fight against sovereign debt has failed, and Fidesz and the government's knife have broken into it. Dear House, It was fun to listen to the lead speaker of Fidesz while praising the bill and talking about increasing transparency. In this bill, there is exactly the opposite. How can you talk about an increase in transparency when this bill contains an extension of encrypted data sets and analyses, not a reduction? This bill prevents requests for data in the public interest in certain cases, which were not previously prohibited. In particular, data relating to the financing of public finances can be encrypted for two years and background calculations for ten years if this bill is adopted unchanged in this House. This is not an increase in transparency, you understand! This is a reduction in transparency and the extension of encryption rules to data sets that have not otherwise been included in this encryption area. It was also entertaining to hear the statements of the lead speaker of Fidesz that the bill tabled contained tax reductions. That's not true. In particular, the proposed legislation contains a delay in the introduction of a single-key corporate tax, namely that, instead of reducing their corporate tax under the original plans, certain enterprises subject to corporate tax, the State would reduce their corporate tax more precisely, it remains at the higher current level. How can you talk about reducing the tax burden, paying tribute to a bill when, by the way, it suggests that this reduction should not happen? That was very entertaining. By the way, the lead speaker of Fidesz is right to have included in the bill tabled in terms of mitigating. The moral and moral value of this, on the other hand, is quite doubtful. The proposed legislation proposes to ease the tax amnesty. What is it, fellow Members? In recent years, Fidesz has introduced the practice that if a person invests his money in sovereign debt for five years, the tax authority will not judge its origin; provided, of course, that he invests it in sovereign debt for five years and so on. I am not saying that it is inconceivable to put such a tax amnesty into law, provided, of course, that the tax burden is fair here too. Even at the time of its introduction, it was difficult to set such a favourable rate for money laundering, because it was actually a legalized money laundering, which was significantly lower than the current personal income tax rate of the people who taxed at home, but the proposed bill also proposes a relaxation in this context. In essence, the draft legislation states that it is sufficient to commit these funds for a single year instead of the previous five years, after which the money laundering was successfully carried out, without being harassed by the tax authority, to have the money free to pay a fair, fairer tax than personal income tax. The author gave this indecently by adding it to the economy, so what a good proposal it is. I would point out that, if I had just remembered the fight against sovereign debt for a long time, then perhaps we should have left the goal of a tax amnesty in order to buy sovereign debt by individuals who are prone to money laundering and otherwise have a substantial amount of money, because they could reduce external indebtedness on the merits. Of course, it would not affect lending practice itself, but it could at least reduce external indebtedness by increasing the proportion of government debt not in foreign currency but in HUF. Even this is facilitated by the bill. By contrast, putting this money into the circulation of the economy is simply a hoax, nothing but that after a year instead of five years, these people can go with God and do anything with their money, cleaning up their wealth from wherever they come from. Dear House, This bill is therefore quite simply late and unacceptable in its main proposals. It is late because, while seeking to establish a fiscal law, the debate at all starts after the negotiation of the budget bill, and it is unacceptable in its content because it acknowledges the failure in the fight against public debt, facilitates money laundering in respect of tax amnesty and postpones and postpones the tax reductions promised for an uncertain period of time rather than making public finances more transparent; on the contrary, it intends to encrypt this for several years. Therefore, this bill is unacceptable to the MSZP. Mr President, Dear House, Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-05-30-8	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Andras Aradski, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Congressman, please.
u2015-05-30-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us envisages the amendment of 18 laws, 18 which are necessary in order to enable this House to adopt the draft budget law discussed this week in a sound manner. The bill will be discussed today in the light of the fact that the House has come to know the draft budget law, discussed it, analysed its content, and then adapts the existing laws, taking into account the proposals for amendments already tabled. I indicate that no new law has been presented in this proposal, that it amends the laws in force in order to enable the Hungarian society to comply with the future fiscal law in 2016, the Hungarian taxpayers, the Hungarian economic operators and the Hungarian citizens and municipalities to act accordingly. This is not a house building, but a logical and coherent legislative process that first discusses the substance and then selects and stitches the button on the coat. Dear House, The data of the bill before us that it contains only 59 sections is also due to the fact that, from 2012, the government will conduct a consistent economic policy to combat the development of the Hungarian economy and the crisis of the Hungarian economy. [[8.50]] Let us remember that in 2010, when the Fidesz-KDNP government took over governance, public debt was over 80% of GDP in terms of GDP. This was due to eight years of blessed, consistent, vision-filled socialist governance, which pointed in the direction of the vision, its aim was to increase the debt-to-GDP ratio of 52 per cent to 80 per cent, while taking a loan of EUR 14,3 billion from the European Central Bank and the IMF, and to get the country into a situation where it could have failed sooner if Hungarian society had not changed government in time, if the Fidesz-KDNP government had not been created in time and did not take the necessary measures to rescue our country from bankruptcy. This was a coherent, prepared, logical, transparent and forward-looking economic policy practiced by the MSZP-SZDSZ governments. Thus, raising the public debt from a debt-to-GDP ratio of 52 per cent to a debt-to-GDP ratio of over 80 per cent. Why did I say that, after 2010, the Hungarian Government has consistently and in a pursuit of stability, aims to reduce public debt and start economic development? Today, we are talking about economic growth reaching 3.4 percent in terms of annual terms in March. Today we are saying that inflation is below 1 per cent; today we are saying that the public debt-to-GDP ratio is gradually falling. Today we are talking about the fact that the real value of actions is increasing; today we are talking about creating the value-proofness of pensions. This required consistent work in tax policy as an instrument for economic policy, i.e. from 1 January 2012 the rate of VAT is unchanged, from 1 January 2012 the rate of corporation tax is unchanged, from 1 January 2012 until 1 January of the following year the rate of personal income tax remains unchanged, which will change in a more favourable direction from 1 January 2016 with a 1 percent decrease, leaving around HUF 110 billion for people. This stability, this kind of consistent economic policy, has delivered the country, sent the Hungarian national economy to the point where it has good values in the international comparison, and can show values that very few countries in Europe are capable of, the welfare of which we always set an example of the stability of. The truth is that they have been following these values for 20-30 years, which is also an important necessity and prerequisite for their well-being and stability. We hope that this direction will continue with stable Hungarian governance, and we will also achieve the stability and standard of living that the countries set as examples have achieved. On the basis of these values, the bill before us decided that the formula adopted in 2011 that the government at the time required in relation to the reduction of public debt had changed because we should say that from a macroeconomic point of view - in multiple quotes - we are too good. When we adopted that formula, there was high inflation, higher public debt and higher government deficits. Today, these figures, indeed, cannot be kept under the requirement of ensuring healthy economic development. Therefore, the government has rightly adopted and tabled this legislative amendment proposal, in line with the guidelines of the State Audit Office and the Fiscal Council, in order to establish a formula that makes this problem manageable, it makes it manageable to reduce and reduce the value and extent of the reduction of public debt, even with low inflation, low government deficits, and does not jeopardise economic development, jeopardise the livelihood of citizens and the economic and resource conditions of municipalities and the availability of resources. I must mention that this is a very wise decision. It is a wise decision because it makes Hungarian economic policy predictable and shows a good signal for investors, and it also sends a good message in terms of the path of the Hungarian debt reduction, which is now lower than when we took over 80% of GDP debt. But it is also an equally important message that while the planned reduction in corporate tax is not being reduced, let us consider that the direction that is being formulated by reducing personal income tax is being strengthened. I mentioned earlier that personal income tax is down by 1 percent. We cannot apply the two at the same time, we are not so strong at the moment, but hopefully in a few years we will be so strong that the Hungarian budget will be able to bear the corporate tax below 10%. Keeping 10 percent, however, is not something of a devil. This corporate tax rate is therefore considered to be very low in a European comparison, even in terms of 10%, and much lower than the 17-18 percent corporate tax rate used under the MSZP. This is a wise decision, and it reflects our government's prudent and long-term practice. What I would also like to mention in my comment - and I have been waiting for you to tell me what it is to encrypt the data and information relating to the preparation of the budget - I must mention that this is otherwise in accordance with the applicable data protection law, which clearly states that the background calculations on the preparation are not public until a decision is taken. This has already been applied, and it has now been included as a lex specialist by the legislator, the author of the Public Finance Act, even because we need to apply clarifications here, because this is a more specific area than a general sentence to regulate the data protection law. I must add that these are very important things, that this encryption has very important reasons. For example, companies that are otherwise contributors to the budget - either in the form of dividends or in the form of taxes - and, let's say, stock exchange companies, would not be lucky to publicly disclose what is their obligation to expect dividends, for example, a year before the start of their actual listing and marketing year. This would be indeed dangerous, market-distorting information, which would endanger the policy of certain companies in the Hungarian economy, so in this sense it is extremely justified to limit access to data, and overall this fear and this protection does not prevent anyone from asking data supporting the approved budget when it has already been adopted. [[9.00]] What I would like to say about this law is that it is an important tool: 59 sections. I have been a Member of Parliament for almost five years, and I believe that the bill establishing such a short budget has not yet come before this House. This also shows that we are a government of stability, a government of stability, and one of the merits of sound governance is that we can draft short, understandable and practical legislative proposals, even if there are some in this bill that result in time extensions from economic constraints. For example, an amendment to the Mining Act has been included, which shifts the initial date and time of regeneration of abandoned hydrocarbon wells by two years. Otherwise, there are basically economic reasons for this: the funds needed for the Hungarian mining profiteer - revaluing the costs of this recultivation - it is justified to postpone this. And I have to say that I have to underline that these wells have been unscathed and closed throughout the country for several decades, otherwise they do not cause direct environmental damage, they do not directly or indirectly endanger the environment, but only the recultivation of the area remains. Overall, it can be said that this bill follows our economic orientations as defined by the Budget Act, applying appropriate and reasonable amendments, which gives me the courage to propose to this House that it vote and adopt the bill before us after the debate. [[Dr. István Józsa: Without Laughing.]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-30-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Congresswoman, notary, please.
u2015-05-30-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, During yesterday, we learned from Viktor Orbán that the last five years have been in the spirit of politicalization of power, but this is over, and from now on attention will be given in the centre of their politicalization; so to knock on the door of the early young, hardworking people, ask what the problem is, what they can do to help them to keep an eye on the citizens of Hungary as much as possible. This speech to Viktor Orbán, like any other speech, gives us great joy in our heart and soul, and after listening to such a speech, you are in a state of religious devotion. And then, in this state of mind, you will open this bill to prepare for your speech the next day, and you will find that I myself have experienced that, unfortunately, this bill was conceived in the spirit of politicalization of power, and there is no mention that you really want to look out for anyone, unless it's about your own comfort and the concreteization of yourself as much as possible. So I think, taking the Prime Minister's words to heart, that you should withdraw this bill, that you should notice that it is played out of the wrong music, that this period has passed, that the politicalization of power is over, and that from now on you must focus attention on the small people. This law, all 19 of the laws that are changing in it, is all about how you want to continue the politicalization of power, so I suggest that you withdraw this bill in line with the politicalization of our Prime Minister. Turning to the specific amendments that we can read here in the bill, there has already been much talk about the increase in public debt, I would just like to add one thought to what has already been said. And this is the first one right away. In Section 4, I would like to add another paragraph 2 (a) to section 4. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Next up, number two. Let me mention that when calculating the sovereign debt indicator, it will not be necessary to take into account the increase in government debt in the sense that it results from the ex post reimbursement of EU funds or for any other reason that the EU contribution to the expenditure incurred will not be accounted for in the Finance Act. We know - this is why the Hungarian press is loud - that, yes, the fate of tens of billions, if any, of hundreds of billions has become questionable after the various target studies conducted by the European Union have established that significant resources of this kind have been used incorrectly, and that there are significant illegal abuses in each use that oblige Hungary to repay these funds and that some payments have been suspended. In order not to affect your comfort, therefore, these repayable resources will not have to be taken into account in the formation of public debt or in the sovereign debt indicator. But in fact, we know that this will increase public debt, especially if these money has already been spent, and now it will have to be repaid from something. By the way, let me draw your attention to a glitch in stylistics. I know that, according to the Hungarian proverb, time is money, but the increase in government debt does not come from time, but from the money that you have to pay back. So, please, this little typo, if possible, will be improved at 2. Paragraph 5. But let's go on and talk about classified budget planning, which you believe is acceptable, because financial and economic interests can result in you, at some stage of preparation, encrypting background calculations, the merits of planning, certain things for two years, certain things for ten years; that is, not until the adoption of the law, but even beyond, two or ten years. Our fellow Member in Aradsk said that this is in line with the data law, and I would like to draw the House's attention to the little thing that is commonly called the Fundamental Law, which you have formulated, you have adopted, and in the public financial chapter it is written that budget planning can only be done in a transparent and reasonable manner. These paragraphs are also totally opposed to the fact that you want to encrypt the budget already in the planning phase, and you want to maintain this encryption for a long time. In this case, the person will have the budget lines and budget lines for which we have asked for different data several times in the past period, and we could not receive any relevant information, or when we received it, we were already in post-painting, practically the decision was made. I would like to place two little things here, not big public investment, which does not involve hundreds of billions of dollars in any case, but only such a few ten billionaires. This is the question of the Városliget project, which represents 10 billion this year, it represents 20 billion the following year, and for some reason it is particularly demanding for the government to publish the preparations, background studies, calculations and other... - what they want to spend these funds specifically on, these data. And when it's published, many times we're after the decision, or the series of data that they tell us about it, they're just asking hundreds of other questions at the moment. [[9.10]] But one more foundation, one more background study and one more budget line, which is a meat-and-blood problem, and this is the free feeding of children. Mr Secretary of State, I have also raised this in this House a number of times, and I have pointed out many times that I think that it is possible to make very eligible laws, such as, for example, that virtually every child can eat in a free nursery, kindergarten or at school, only if we do not add the resources required by this bill or by the adopted law, then the problem will be much greater than before. That's the case at the moment. And I asked you to show why you provide the municipalities with only as much resources to feed their children as it is, let's say, included in the 2016 draft budget law and included in the amendment of the 2015 Budget Act. I've been asking you ever since, I haven't received these background calculations. You don't really think they're gonna encrypt this, do you, and you're not gonna hand over these calculations because it's the only thing that's gonna tell us that this line isn't justified, are you? So if anything, this paragraph must be unacceptable in this law. But I will add, and in this context I must mention that there are incomprehensible proposals, amendments to this law that violate the principles of transparency and reasonable detail, which may not be a problem of this magnitude, such as what I have said before, but still violate the Fundamental Law. But let me go on, because there are a number of points that my fellow Members have not yet touched on, but otherwise it is part of the bill. I might mention little things, but I think they're still important. From now on, for example, to issue the instrument of incorporation of a budgetary body - the Prime Minister, if any, was needed, if it was to establish a government office or a ministry - we now know the 11th edition of the Act. According to § 3, the person entitled has not yet been replaced, it will now be replaced. I don't dare to think what it's like... - it's literally in it, because I can see someone in the box shaking his head very much; please, respectfully, read it, you have submitted this bill. It is quite surprising to delete this sentence and this sentence, and it can indeed have surprising consequences. Further, in order to return for a second to transparency and reasonable detail, you say that the budgetary bodies form titles within chapters, and that from now on, territorially fragmented bodies, but engaged in the same activity, may also appear in a title, so that they will not have to be listed separately in their different budget headings, and you justify this by, for example, supporting, in the field of defence, the national security aspect, not having to specify separately how much they are spending. I don't think so in this way, in this form. If you look at the current draft budget law or any of it, it is, say, Annex 1 that is not very detailed there, especially, let us say, from a national security point of view, what the individual item means, so I think that the merger of these bodies will further reduce transparency and violate the principle of reasonable detail. On the subject of the budgetary supervisor, which the Secretary of State mentioned, I do not understand. In the explanatory statement, you said that - one moment, this is the 20th. §, I will now read out exactly what this is about - the budgetary supervisor can do more than that, so in particular he can give his opinion on the procedures for commitment in advance and he can object to large amounts of commitments. Mr Secretary of State, I report that these lines will be removed from the law, so in this sense the powers of the budgetary supervisor, if I understand correctly, will be reduced by you. With regard to the support of local authorities, it is stipulated in the Public Finance Act that the aid granted may be used by 31 December of the following year, but it has been possible to derogate from it, and the rules of this derogation are now being amended by you, which means that a shorter period can be determined on the basis of the government's specific decision. I think that this is a dangerous way, because it creates the possibility of arbitrary application of law and is also one of the means of politicalisation of power. In the case of opposition settlements, will you roughly reduce the minimum period of use provided for in the original law, just to embarrass and create financial difficulties for some settlements? I don't even dare think about how this will affect later on. The same is the case in the case of the imposition of certain types of fines. To date, a specific amount has been set as to the extent to which a fine may be imposed if the aid is used. Now, that's over, and now you're going to want to move this pass into a government decree, so obviously, here too, the government's individual assessment, its unique tastes, can determine who's going to have to pay on the basis of the title of the fine. We welcome, let us say, the fact that the Financial Regulation must now be adopted by 15 February, no matter how the Parliament adopted the Central Budget Act, so if it has not adopted it by 1 January, then the respective municipalities will still have to accept it by 15 February. Let's just say it's a little funny that it's in the very law that would underpin a budget law to be adopted in June, so I don't really understand what the validity of this amendment is right now, although this is reasonable and a really necessary change. With regard to changing the rules of horse racing betting: usually when we talk about gambling, I tell you honestly that people's stomachs are shrinking in Hungary, because I can't stop thinking - and in this respect, a word hasn't been said in the explanatory statement - whether we want to put Andy Vajna first again or give him priority in some way. We know that this would be absolutely appropriate for the practice of recent years, as it has already received hundreds of billions of dollars of gifts and government gifts from Andy Vajna. I dare not think how much of this must be distributed back to the grey-black zone of Fidesz's party register - no matter what, it was just a parentheses' thought on my part - but we know that he won the online gambling market, that he won only five casinos here in Budapest and around Budapest, and that he also received the gift that he could write down the concession fee from the gaming tax, so each one of them was a multibillion-dollar gift. What kind of gift will Andy Vajna receive with regard to horse racing betting? I would very much like the honourable Secretary of State to respond specifically to this. On the subject of Eximbank, I would like to tell you this: in the Finance Act, too, the government will make a capital increase of HUF 20 billion at Eximbank. [[9.20]] In this respect, too, there is no justification in the Finance Act. Why? Because. It's as simple as that. So you don't overdetail these 20 billion little ones as to why it's really necessary, but then this law comes along, and it says here what extra licenses Eximbank will get. Well, you'll get the license to act on behalf of the state when you're established for international development cooperation, to conclude contracts and so forth. So what has been allowed only to the Minister will now be the option of Eximbank. I think that this is another and quite significant slap in the face of transparency, because, in the case of decisions of this magnitude, it might be worth putting this to the general public, even in advance, if appropriate, that the Minister informs, let us say, the Parliament, of the kind of international development cooperation they are preparing. Then it also violates transparency and reasonable detail, as I understand it, that so far there has been a national and priority category for performing arts organisations. In particular, there were theatres, ballet and dance groups, orchestras, choirs and so on. The categories may remain, but Parliament will have little decision-making power to grant individual organisations budget support, since from now on - and as you can see in the 2016 Finance Act - they will be collected only in large chapters, not per organisation, but in chapters and not in national or priority categories, but only in large bouquets per chapter. I think, and perhaps this is what the government's policy so far supports, that what always happens is that pets get a little bit more money in some way than less favorites. And one more thing to the end: the texts of ministries, government agencies and central offices are no longer required to be made public, they do not have to be published on websites. Why would you do that? I would also like to ask the Honourable Secretary of State for a detailed and meaningful explanation, as we can only think of the fact that force politics is still taking place in Hungary. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-30-12	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, the notary of the Parliament, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2015-05-30-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Listening to the comments of my fellow government representatives yesterday, the day before yesterday and the day before in the debate on the budget law and today, I keep feeling that you live in another world, in another Hungary, and you have no idea what is happening in Hungarian society, or if you do have any idea, then you are very careful about it and you are not communicating it to the government. So they simply don't talk about it, and they keep repeating the sentences that are primarily propaganda steel, and I think it's numbing. Today, we have heard several times about the government's achievements in terms of job creation, support for families and economic growth in recent years. But at all, if we go into these details, there will be a completely different picture than what you're talking about. You talk about what a fantastic thing it is, how many jobs you have created, and how unemployment is already at a minimum level. They just constantly forget to talk about the fact that, in essence, the economic sector has created about 40,000 jobs in the competition sector since 2010, and the rest have been created by public works. The community service... - although I know that there are many small settlements, small villages, where there is no job, other job opportunities, there is a need for community service, but not in this way and not in this way. For example, there are settlements where there are 80 public workers in a thousand-many settlement, but the public worker is not able to provide adequate work, for example, there is no man who leads the work of public workers; or for example, they have people doing something - because there is no job - to have the lawn cut off by hand for a week, and their backs fall off, even though there would be a suitable machine to do it in no time. I therefore believe that they cannot be proud at all of trying to solve unemployment through public work, and that once in a while it should be thought that this economic structure and this economic policy that you are doing are driving the country on this path, that there will be fewer jobs, because the multi-nationals are constantly cutting down jobs because of efficiency and competitiveness, but you will later give them a lot of money from European support to re-establish an extra job. So we have huge problems here, and you should be able to see it exactly. Another item: putting families in a better position. Yeah, now they're giving family tax relief for two children. But they forget that since 2008, you have not increased the amount of child and family allowance. Think about it, though, that in families, the child and the family allowance is a much larger item than the tax relief you are talking about. Economic growth: you are extremely proud of the fact that there is a 2-3 percent increase in GDP, but we could talk about up to 4 percent increase in GDP - the benefits of growth and the profit are only skimmed by a few percent. Where does it go, who uses it, who benefits from this economic growth? We should talk about that, too. It's not about this whiffing that, oh, but good, GDP has increased by 2 or 3 percent, but if people don't feel the benefit of it, then there's nothing to talk about. You say that the budget - and we say so too - reflects a country's social and economic policy. Yes, it does, but the fact that your economic policy, your social policy, could have been discussed here in substance, has not happened at all. You bring in the laws, and then you're done, that's what's going on, the underlying calculations, the substantive debate of these things doesn't happen. I have also heard many times from government representatives, even though I am only a one-year Member of Parliament, that there was a substantive debate here in Parliament only in the early 1990s. Later, he went on and on and on and on: the party of the government is constantly attacking the opposition, and the opposition sometimes tries to generate professional debates, and you do not participate in these substantive debates. So much for your social policy: they do not realize that the country is torn apart, how many poor people there are in this Hungarian society. I was at the social worker protest yesterday. The nurses and protestors there put it on their arms, there it was, you could see how much net wages they received for decent work each month. Many had a net wage of 70-80-90 thousand forints on their arms. On the street, in the midst of the parade, the participants said that they were still working on Christmas because there are patients and patients on Christmas and New Year's Eve. You don't realize that you can't make a living from 70-80-90,000 forints. You can add 2 percent increase or 5 percent increase to this, it's not worth much. We need a much, much greater wage rise in this country. There have also been several reports of the reduction of the rent. I think it was a perfect hoax. In the end, it turns back to people that, in vain, it comes on the paper, that they lost a few thousand forints in their bills, but somewhere at the end of the line, they're gonna stand there and they're gonna pay for it. For example, what happens to waste management companies? Now a lot of local governments have to make up for the losses they've suffered because of the reduction in their rent. And what can the municipality do if he doesn't get it from the central budget? He's gonna put out taxes on local people. I think it's time to stop all of this -- the numbing and the shaming -- now. You do not know the involvement of people and the involvement of the opposition in the decision-making process. That is why the secrecy of budgetary data is included in this law. [[9.30]] Before I turn to some of the elements of the current concrete draft law, I would like to emphasise, too, what my fellow Member Burány said was that the order was reversed. So we discussed it, we closed the budget law yesterday, and now we're talking about what's behind it today. It should be translated, so it should not be brought here immediately, that this is what it is, but that there should be a substantive debate and that we should also listen to the opposition, the opposition's proposals on this. So we should do these cases the other way around. We have already expressed our views on the budget, which is obviously another step in the wrong direction. This also determines the quality of the salad, which has several critical points, which we believe should be withdrawn if the government really governs for the electorate. It has already been said several times today that one of the critical points of the current salad law is the concealment of budgetary data. I'd like to confirm that. With these amendments, the government practically exempts itself from the consequences of the presentation of transparency expectations and background calculations, although they are bound by law. Although it is laid down in law that the government has to draw up an annual and medium-term financing plan and strategy for the central budget, the recently tabled amendment would encrypt the relevant data for two years. The government now suggests that creditors cannot calculate when the Hungarian state needs fresh funding. That's a frivolous explanation. The background calculations and planning data generated in the planning of the budget are not public for ten years. This is a clear smear of responsibility, since the study by the State Audit Office of the 2016 budget found in a dozen places that the merits of each budget cannot be assessed in the absence of appropriate documents. In fact, there are no credible and serious calculations behind the government's steps, no thorough background studies, and they are constantly trying to translate the political expectations from above into legislation. That's what they want to hide, hide, not state secrets. Regarding the advertising market, abolishing the bonus for advertising and banning the contract of advertising intermediaries: this is considered to be an intra-government position struggle, where one Fidesz potent tries to subdue the other so that it can acquire smaller businesses. This measure can destroy many, many Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, it is unjustified, and it changes a basic operating system in a market without any explanation or public interest. We also consider the state's money laundering to be a critical point. If the assets from sources unknown abroad were brought home and placed in an account, so far they were exempt from tax after five years, after four years there were 16 percent. Now 20 percent in a year, 10 percent in a year. It's really an outrage, a blow to the face of people who pay decent taxes. Money from not only tax evasion, but also serious crimes is being laundered by the state. There are also a number of measures postponed in the bill, some of which are the right decisions, at least that is what we think, but this will greatly destroy your credibility. For example, we consider it appropriate to postpone the delivery of a single-key corporate tax, to support multinationals in a negative tax competition to be a very bad idea; but we also think it is right to postpone the social funeral and even think that it should be abolished, so it should be forgotten at all. I think that this, that you even invented this social burial, is an immeasurable insensitivity. How can family members be expected to attend and dig their family's grave? We would very much like this proposal to be forgotten. The debt formula is being abolished, which has been mentioned several times today, which we think is tragic because it has been inadequate to achieve the goal set, and it has only been a PR capture. This one is also unfit, not countercyclical, and it is also against the law. But the fundamental laws are changed at least on a daily basis, proving that it was pointless to create the whole system. Finally, one more thing: you can send supervisors to state companies. That's very interesting - it's a Commissar law. The state no longer trusts the leaders it appoints. It's tragic. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-05-30-14	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. As no independent congressman is present in the courtroom, we now continue the work of the Parliament in a two-minute circle. Congressman Nándor Gúr, representative of the MSZP.
u2015-05-30-15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My fellow Members, I would like to draw your attention to just three things before the debate begins. One is that it is not entirely correct, so I can safely say that if, after the general debate on the budget law has been concluded, after the amendments have been tabled, the law establishing the budget will be presented to the House. My fellow Member Burány has spoken about this in more detail, but I would like to draw your attention to this because it is not fair. The other part is that when we adopt, adopt, adopt rules, regulations, and laws, I think that it is neither fair nor even fair to do so at their convenience. Earlier adopted rules are either overwritten or not overwritten, but they are not used, postponed, and they really shape and shape processes as they please. There is no consistency, no consistency in that sense in what your magician said in a sense, I mean Matolcsy. You remember, Matolcsy considered the introduction of the debt formula a new, serious weapon in economic history. What is the use of this gender, if it was then, that it was a serious weapon in economic history? Because everything you have submitted in connection with the budget law, the requirements in force, has obviously been forced into such a process, because you have not dared to accept what would have been related to the burden of 700 billion forints. So, a word like a hundred, you should do what you're told, and you should represent the interests of people in bringing these laws to life. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2015-05-30-16	Preliminary speakers will follow, as there were no more two-minute applications. Mr Zsolt Nyitrai is the next speaker, Fidesz. Here.
u2015-05-30-17	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, The law on the basis of the 2016 central budget cooperates: it cooperates with the Central Budget Act and cooperates with the tax laws. It cooperates because the draft legislation before us helps to achieve the basic objectives of the budget and to achieve them. What are these main goals? This is the main goal of job creation. I think this is the most important task we have in common. This is the main objective of the budget to reduce taxes, to give back money to people if the economic situation of the country allows for this. "More money for people," said the socialists at the time, but it is Fidesz that will eventually achieve this in practice. Mr Péter Oszkó, Minister of Finance, said for a reason that he would have liked to have had such economic conditions, among such national economic indicators, but unfortunately he did not have that. The following year, the following year, in 2016, more than 170 billion HUF can be returned to Hungarian people, Hungarian families. We will reduce the personal income tax from 16 to 15 percent. It is a very important task and goal to continue with family tax incentives. [[9.40]] We want a transparent charging system and it is the elimination of several taxes that are clearly included in this proposal and in other rules relating to the submission. If we look at this draft, we can say, as many people here in this Chamber have already said, that 18 laws will be amended by this House. The package of legislation on economic stability, public finances, single-key corporate tax, advertising activities and retail trade in tobacco products will also change. Under the Act on Hungary's economic stability, the nominal value of government debt may increase in a given fiscal year to a level corresponding to half the difference between inflation and the growth rate of real GDP. The previous rule will remain in force only in the event of a loss of money beyond the central bank's 3 per cent inflation target and economic growth above 3 per cent. Otherwise, a reduction of at least 0,1 percentage points should be achieved. Data of strategic importance for public finances and debt management are not public for two years. This has been the case for virtually all speakers so far in their comments, and I think that it is worth stopping here for a moment, because the introduction of this rule is in our fundamental interest, the market also works in the same way, this country, the state's financial interest, and it is important to introduce it so that we are not exposed to speculation interests. From the point of view of the functioning of the state, we do not reveal sensitive information from an economic point of view to all market and economic operators, as this makes our own path difficult, but what the opposition will say and has already said is that transparency is limited, is not so, since virtually all data can be made public under current regulations. Ladies and gentlemen, Expenditure appropriations may be exceeded without any adjustment of appropriations following the adoption of this legislation. With regard to advertising, our clear aim is to avoid double pay. This is why the current advertising agency, the advertiser, typically a media service provider, receives 5-20 percent of its advertising revenue as a bonus at the end of the year. With the government's presentation, it would abolish this bonus system, since it has a significant market distorting effect. From 1 July 2015, the bill will also transform the tax liability related to the stability savings account. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Overall, I think that the proposal and the related legislation clearly increase the predictability of investors and businesses, and the aim is to strengthen competitiveness. I would like once again to sum up the most important objectives, and obviously I am thinking of the budget in particular: job creation, tax reduction, the continuation of family tax incentives and the elimination of more tax. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-30-18	Thank you very much. Congressman László Kiss is next, MSZP. Here.
u2015-05-30-19	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, In fact, among the laws establishing the budget, we can find a real gem. I would also like to highlight the regulation to change the advertising market, because the government is creating or intends to create a regulation that will not be good for virtually anyone. In the future, advertising agencies cannot be in contractual relations with media companies, nor can they receive bonuses from the media, and at the same time the customers, who will then sign directly with the media, will be obliged to pay 15 percent to the agencies. The question arises as to exactly what work this will be paid for, and how a fee may be imposed in a rule of law. I found my fellow Member, Mr Tuzson,'s argument in this regard shocking. On the one hand, he accused the media market players of corruption, which I think is quite simply nonsense, and on the other hand the legal nonsense that a civil law contract requires a fee and obliges the players, and that after 20-25 years they transform a practically mature system on a mandatory basis, which is explained by the fact that media companies are not in the interest of customers, it is simply nonsense. No one can seriously believe that serious market players, multinationals, advertisers often pay tens and hundreds of millions to a media agency who feels that they do not represent their interests. Let's not talk frivolous. Obviously, this is about the government agreeing with the media that they can save on these bonuses that the media companies have paid to advertising agencies so far, no longer have to pay. That's what this is about. It's not good for the client or the brokerage company. Companies who are the big psychics who currently have to pay such bonuses can benefit in one case. It's not good for anyone else, it's not good for the advertiser. A French and Romanian example can be given in Europe when there is such legislation, which has been discussed by the rapporteur and my fellow Member, Mr Tuzson. Of course, I do not want to live here with sophistication, so that it is possible to say a number of other European countries where there is no such regulation, so there are two, there are no more, but let us not talk about that. Rather, let us talk about the fact that in France the number of people employed in the sector decreased by 20 percent after the introduction, so that people were dismissed from this sector or in Romania, where the volume of the media market decreased by 15-20 percent after the regulation. So what we are talking about here is that in the two countries in which this regulation has been introduced, like you, people have been dismissed in one case and in the other, some segments of the economy have been held back by this regulation. That's the effect it's had. It wasn't introduced anywhere else. What does that really mean? On the other hand, the thing is that if I wanted to conclude an advertising contract, I wanted to introduce a product to the market, so far I have concluded a contract with a company who has actually provided me with a complex service, in this case the production of advertising, a single media advertising portfolio, where I could decide myself to advertise my product on the Internet or in another form, through public advertising, by television or by other advertising media. From now on, in terms of your regulation, this company will only become a brokerage company, to whom I am obliged to pay 15%, but from now on, I myself will sign with these partners, which means that I am not in a contractual relationship with a company, so anyone who wants to advertise will not be in a contractual relationship with a company, but anyone who is practically living and moving on the advertising market. This story is incomprehensible. After all, if we really think that there are really substantial advertising activities going on here, then an advertising campaign is not the relationship between a medium and an advertiser, but the relationship between many media companies of an advertiser; newspapers, televisions, internet surfaces, multiple public spaces. Technically, to say that the system will be simpler, more normal and more transparent by having virtually no valid licenses for an intermediary company, I, on the other hand, am obliged to conclude dozens of contracts, and from then on I have the obligation to take care of the afterlife of these contracts, it is certainly naive to think that this is simpler. So I think that this system will not be better for the customer, it will not be better for the players in the market. Technically, these media agencies have been representing their clients. Quite simply, the claim that they did not do so is nonsense, because there is a huge competition in the media agency market, if someone was not satisfied with their media agency, they simply bought this service from someone else. [[9.50]] The government intervenes in this market in a way that cannot be positive in any way. It is no coincidence that the Association of Hungarian Communications Agencies protested against the draft change in a communication. They write that the entry into force of the measure leads to a reduction in total advertising spending, with all its consequences, to the quality of content and, in the case of smaller media, to the total disappearance of advertising revenues. Both media and advertisers face additional significant costs and unmanageable administrative burdens, and media agencies operating on the market can be insane. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I simply think that this regulation and its justification are very strange, ignoring the fact that, at the moment, the situation of media agencies is not like that in France and Romania when they regulated it. Although I note that it is at least debatable that this regulation would have been appropriate both in France and Romania. There is nothing monopolistic about media agencies like it was in France and Romania. After the regulation, the costs of advertisers will certainly increase, since from now on, contracting and checking contracts will also be the job of the advertiser, so there will be a reduction in advertising resources, while the burden of advertisers will continue to increase, plus even the 15% mandatory fee, but we do not know what it is for. In addition, I think that this 15 per cent charge, this administrative pricing is absolutely anticompetitive and cannot allow differentiated agency pricing based on the volume of tasks and quality, and neither can performance-based remuneration. So when we talk about what principle of civil law is violated by the current situation, according to Bence Tuzson, it is in fact that they want to introduce a perfectly illegal public pricing which conflicts with all the spirit of civil law. The quantitative bonus that is imposed by the law, i.e. what at the moment as big customers, media companies give their customers a bonus discount, is basically what these companies lived on. Well, that's unprecedented. Technically, it can be said that you benefit large media companies with this regulation to reduce their costs. There are a number of questions. It's a question of what's behind the regulation at all. The question is, why do they think that big media companies should benefit from it, while they do not favour their customers with this regulation. The question is whether regulation has been considered at all. We are waiting for answers to these questions. Thank you for listening.
u2015-05-30-20	Dear Parliament, There are two-minute speeches now, but there are no candidates. I'm not trying to encourage you. I'm just telling you as a fact. We will therefore continue to work with the speakers who have been announced. Congressman Attila Szabolcs is next, Fidesz.
u2015-05-30-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, On 20 May 2015, the Government submitted to Parliament a bill on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2016, which is a legislative package amending 18 laws. The general debate on the 2016 budget ended yesterday, and today will be the general debate on tax laws. The question arises as to why this House is discussing these laws almost at the same time. Because these three laws are closely interlinked, it is therefore essential to negotiate them together. In general, the current budget seeks to take account of the various social aspects, to enforce the policy interests of the wallets and to implement the government programme itself. However, financial coverage is needed to meet the budgetary needs that arise, and therefore the creation of tax laws is particularly important to have the resources for many expenditures. Dear fellow Members, Expenditure is easier to estimate, but revenue planning is much harder, as it depends on a lot of factors: GDP growth, inflation, exchange rate changes, and so on. The T/4884 in front of us. The main objective of the bill on which the 2016 budget is based is to harmonise legislation in order to ensure consistency and smooth implementation of the budget and tax laws. Allow me to explain the most important elements of the bill without the need for completeness. The strategic data on public finance and debt management will not be publicly available for two years, as the full knowledge of the financing plan will give the market access to information that is classified as a business secret which threatens financing at the lowest possible cost, may result in market manipulation and would be disproportionate to the financial interests of the State. Instead of 1 January 2016, the single-key company tax will be introduced on 1 January 2020. On the basis of the proposal, expenditure appropriations may be exceeded without any adjustment in appropriations, since budget expenditure which is affected by the average of the central bank base rate in the previous year cannot be planned precisely, since it is not known when the central budget is planned or when the central budget law is adopted. Currently, the advertising agency receives 5-20 percent of the advertising revenue of the advertiser, typically a media service provider, as a bonus at the end of the year. The government intends to abolish this bonus system as it is harmful because of its distorting effect on the market. Advertisers prefer publishers offering a larger bonus, i.e. potential advertising platforms are chosen for their own interests and not necessarily according to the expectations of advertisers. From 1 July 2015, the bill will also transform the tax liability related to the Stability Savings Account. In the event of a breach of the investment, the tax rate shall be 20 per cent within one year and 10 per cent in the case of holding an investment reaching one year. Under the current rules, the payment obligation is reduced to below 16% only if the investment period reaches the fourth year. The change in duration will allow those amounts to be included in the economic circulation as soon as possible, but a minimum of 10 per cent of the tax liability would be unavoidable for individuals opening such an account in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that, in view of all this, and with an opinion, a bill has been put on the table of this House which ensures the regularity, legality and legality of the 2016 budget for the adoption of the Budget Act. That is why I consider it important, and I ask you to examine and support the articles which the bill intends to amend. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-30-22	Thank you very much. The next pre-notified speaker was Mr Nándor Gúr. Here you go.
u2015-05-30-23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I see that my fellow Members have not been very impressed by the three ideas that I have put forward at the outset, namely the fact that they should think about it, and also have a position on why, after the general debate on the budget has taken place, we will begin to discuss the draft law on which the budget is based after the submission of the amendments. I don't expect an answer from you anymore. I simply want to say that it is unacceptable, because if we are talking about the law on which the budget is based, it must not be put on the agenda after that, while we are trying to have substantive debates between the walls of the House. But obviously, your legislative process is always in the direction of not discussing the issues that affect society, the multitude of people. [[10.00]] The other part concerns the development of an arbitrary regulatory system: as I said, they always change it as they please, adapted to the current one, or adapted to your wishes; not in the interests of society, not in the interests of the people, but in the light of your arbitrary decisions, as I have said. And so against the most humiliating Matolcsy you are doing, the fact that the historical, economically historical, weaponized indicator, debt indicator is now being liquidated or postponed is not intended to be introduced. But it's not random. Because they do not dare to face themselves, their own decisions, their own regulatory systems, because they impose burdens that they cannot bear and cannot create the economic background that would be necessary. In the meantime, within the framework of a law establishing a budget, a salad law is put into the House's walls, for which it is not about the foundation of the budget, but about many other things, not underestimating the importance of the circles of questions, but it is about museums, funerals and much more. Well, it's a typical salad law, in which, obviously, opposition parties have certain difficulties. Because there may even be components for which it would be identified after the adoption of some amending proposals, but what is in the draft law establishing the budget is unacceptable and, in this sense, it is difficult to do so. Look, that amnesty, tax amnesty, which, you can safely say, is able to make Hungary a money laundromat for the next period, is another rather strange thing. The fact that the National Tax and Customs Office cannot dispute, let alone argue, search or look at the origins of certain resources in the coming period, I think it is not normal. He's crazy! And to claim that these resources are necessary to involve them in the recovery of the economy? ! I think what we should have done in a preventive way is not to take resources out through a multitude of offshore companies over the last five years, and as a result, let's say, this is the type of action the government is thinking about. By the way, the benefit of the forints produced on the farm is combined with a higher tax burden than you know. So, where's the consistency in your head when you're putting forward a bill like this? But to get to the point, actually, what my fellow Member Burány was talking about, by exposing some of it, I would add the rest of it: your promises. The one that came up was the one that exposed the issue of debt. To be fair about debt, there has not been a debt reduction in the last five years, but a debt increase of some HUF 5000 billion. While you have seized, confiscated, stolen, no matter how you put it, from the people, it is a matter of stealing, when you tell people about conditions that can only be regarded as intimidation before making a decision. They're forced to have no other choice. One word, as a hundred, this HUF 3000 billion plus HUF 5000 billion debt increase does not show what you spoke about five years ago, before the elections, that the government debt will decrease, but I will not go into detail. Nor is it about what, in other words, is the reduction of taxes, radical tax cuts... - remembering Orbán's words, right, radical tax cuts, 40-50 new taxes have been introduced. They also remember the creation of a million new jobs in the economy. And they know what they've done in five years - nothing. Nothing! New jobs have not been created in the economy, there are movements within the margin of error. It is in public employment, and based on the inclusion of economic refugees in statistics, there is an increase in employment. Hundreds of thousands of jobs created in the economy, producing new tax forints, should, in fact, now be the sixth hundred thousand, because they are sitting their sixth year, and there is nothing of it. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Well, that's about what your promises are worth. But also in terms of taxes: after five years, does Orbán start talking about 2.0 that now people will? After five years? They didn't sign up for this, gentlemen. No! You have undertaken to create 400 000 new jobs in the economy in the previous cycle. They undertook to increase wages in those four years; average wage growth of nm, not real wage growth. No! It's the increase in the wages of millions of people who can't even earn the minimum living. You know, you know, there's more than 2.2 million people working today, but you're getting an income below the living minimum? So, your debt is at a level that can't be accounted for, let alone changed. Nor did you have any intention of making a change in this regard. And, in terms of wage developments, there is nothing else to say except that you have done anything in a positive sense in order for the vast majority of people to live their lives a little bit better. In a negative sense, the more you have to add with a calm spirit. Now they're saying they're doing a 1% reduction. Now, gentlemen, think about how you're going to enjoy this. ? I'm sure you and your clientele will. But those people who earn at the minimum wage, on the minimum wage that is worth less than five years ago, those people who, as public workers, return home in their pockets after their salary, those people who have been in the public sector for five years now have been facing a salary of 38 650 forints. There was no cycle from the moment the regime changed, in which the civil servant's salary, the salary of the public sector workers, did not increase. Even during the first Orbán government, now, the second and the third Orbán government did not change with a single penny, while Orbán talked about it. [[Dr. András Aradski: Prime Minister.]] Orbán was talking about it, and he put up a poster about himself and Fidesz that the minimum wage had grown radically. The burden of employers and workers has grown radically! You know, that's what Orbán needs. [[Mihály Witzmann: Prime Minister.]] And to all of you, to face the fact that in the case of people of the lowest income level, you have been taken away and have not given. By acting at the expense of 5 million people, nearly 2.5 million people are now earning their income below the minimum living age, these are the challenges they face. These are the things to be faced with, and not to lie around, not to make promises in words about draft budget laws, and to do something completely different in actions - to do something completely different! Because, unfortunately, the facts, the facts all support that while you are talking about the need to act in order to make people better, while it follows that the vast majority of people are not beneficiaries of these processes, far and far away, but condemns them. So perhaps we should move in this direction with regard to the draft law on which the budget is based. Thank you, Your Honour... [[No sound. Dr. István Józsa applauds.]]
u2015-05-30-24	Thank you. Welcome to my fellow Members. Congressman! I call you Congressman. Dear Parliament, There are two-minute speeches coming up. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Nyitrai, Fidesz Group.
u2015-05-30-25	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In my two-minute speech, I would like to respond to the words of Sándor Burány and Nándor Gúr. It was Sándor Burány who spoke to us, as if we were adopting laws in some wrong order. My fellow Member, Mr Aradski, has clearly explained why this is logical and why it is coherent. [[10.10]] Dear Socialist Members, You may think, or some say, that you are very good at planning or at the time - although there is a serious debate about this too, because you may have made bad plans - but the execution has been completely misplaced, that is without doubt, and that is the most important thing in fact, because that is what people perceive. And by the way, I take it from your words that you do not support the budget or the laws that establish it. Then you do not support tax reductions, you do not support job creation, you do not support the continuation of family tax incentives, you do not support the establishment of a transparent charging system [[Foreman Novak: What paragraph is this?]] and the elimination of more taxes. [[Dr. István Józsa: This is just a small tax!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, I notice that you like to scold Minister György Matolcsy, President of the Central Bank. [[Dr. István Józsa: Which is it now?]] However, I would like to offer you with great respect that the macroeconomic indicators have not been as good as they are in today's Hungary in 15 years. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-30-26	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A two-minute speech will be held by Mr András Aradszki, KDNP Group.
u2015-05-30-27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Congressman Nándor Gúr said that his speech was not outrageous, but reminded me of a sentence that Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsány said at the time: we lied in the morning, noon and evening. [[Intruders from the ranks of Fidesz: Night and night!]] Night and night. That's what's happened here in the House. [[Dr. István Józsa: Morning, evening and night!]] Mr Nándor Gúr said that the time period that Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsány and the Member had not taken advantage of, i.e. the morning, Mr Nándor Gúr took advantage of it very intensively, with full breast width. [[Dr. István Józsa: Hahaha! Nándor Gúr: Obviously.]] Thank you very much, Congressman Nándor Gúr. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-30-28	Thank you, Congressman. For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr.
u2015-05-30-29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You don't have to argue with me, no. You have to face yourself with the opinions expressed by people based on people's feelings, and you have to argue with them. You know, it's your biggest mistake and your biggest problem: you can't possibly understand what you've been doing for the past five years; either you can't, or you don't want to, close your eyes, cover your eyes. Gentlemen. The vast majority of people have suffered for the past five years, yes, under Orbán's leadership. He has suffered for the past five years, not for the benefit of the story, not for the benefit of it, as promised, but for the indemnification of it. You do not have to argue with me, you must argue with the far-reaching majority of society that has condemned these last five years! Debate with them if you have the courage, but I don't think you do, because they dare to write. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-30-30	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As no one has applied for a further two-minute speech, we will continue with the speeches announced in writing. I give the floor to Congressman László Kucsák, Fidesz Group.
u2015-05-30-31	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, In response to what I have just heard, I would like to say that it was interesting how Nándor Gúr exulted himself. This fog stabbing you've been performing here, and you're obviously going to do it in two minutes, obviously we're listening to you with interest, but I think you're having an argument, maybe you're doing it with yourself. We wish you good luck. I also thought that I was referring to this because the LMP lead speaker mentioned reality, reality perception. I would like to report that on a wonderful sunny Saturday morning, I was able to leave for Parliament's session, and in our district, the 18th. In the district of Pestszentlőrincen, many people regularly went to the Havana Weekly Fair, in the Bókay garden, Pestszentlőrincen, preparing for tomorrow's Children's Day, because this weekend and especially tomorrow's day, they are paying attention to them, and that's right, because they are the pledges of our future. So this was the reality, and when we arrived in Parliament, we heard Nándor Gúr's national death vision. We wish you all the best of luck. Look out the window, Congressman, the sun is shining, in case you get a little moody. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear fellow Members, Allow me to mention here some of the sections of culture in the context of this bill. Article 47 § XCIX of 2008 on the promotion and specific employment rules of performing arts organisations. Law 24 § (1) of the Act on the Central Budget sets out the envelopes for the allocation of support for registered theatres, ballet or dance ensembles, orchestras and choirs. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: § 2 says:. The 2008 XCIX on the promotion and specific employment rules of performing arts organisations. Law 24 In points (2) (a) and (b) of paragraph 2, the text, which has been registered, shall be replaced by the text, which has been certified. The amendments are necessary for the negotiation of the 2016 Advanced Budget Act, as, in the absence of data, individual amounts of aid cannot be shown in the Budget Act, but only the allocations are set out. Until 2015, in the case of qualified local government-supported organisations, the Finance Act included the performance-art grants due to organisations, broken down by organisation and maintenance municipality. The grants are determined on the basis of the data and activity presented in the reports of the season, according to the procedure laid down in the Act of Performing Arts and on the basis of season reports, the proposals of the performers' committees, the opinion of the National Lecturer-Arts Stakeholders' Council and the decision of the Minister. The season runs from 1 August to 31 July, the first deadline for submission of season reports is 10 June each year, containing planning data for the last two months. Final transmission on 31 August Until 2015, the budgetary law was negotiated in the autumn, so this procedure was possible, even if stretched. Since it is not possible to examine the data due to the planned budget because it is not yet available, from the 2016 budget year, the Budget Act sets out the envelope, and the allocation between the organisations is decided by the Minister on the basis of the procedure described, and its decision is to be published by 5 January. Here I would remind you that Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, on behalf of Jobbik, also mentioned this in his speech. I think this justification can be an answer to his question and concern. In the context of the public collection area: paragraphs 32-42 concerning municipal museums with county authority and libraries. I can provide the following justification for the provisions of this Article. In the last two years, 2013 and 2014, a ministerial decree laid down the rules for the use and use of museum and library grants for municipalities, which were covered by the relevant budget law. The 2011 CXCV on public finances. As of 1 January 2015, the rules on budgetary aid in Law No 1 had been substantially amended, and in the established legislative context there was no possibility of a ministerial-level implementing regulation. The special professional rules for the use of support for county-owned urban museums and county libraries were thus set out in Annexes 2 and 3 to the Finance Act. These included compulsory on-the-spot visits, organisation of methodological workshops, provision of compulsory further training and organisation of information workshops. [[10.20]] Professional rules which are not outside the regulatory scope of the Finance Act can not be recognised in the 2016 Budget Act, and therefore, in the case of county-wide urban museums, the rules on methodological workshops and on-site visits, the organisation of information workshops for county libraries and, in the case of both types of institutions, the provision of further training obligations on museum institutions, public library provision and public education in 1997 CXL. a list of the public tasks of the type of institution. At the same time, I would like to point out that an amendment to the bill will be required. The law refers in several places to the promotion of county-wide urban museums and county libraries, the 91/A. Paragraph 2 explicitly mentions that the budget law determines the amount of aid broken down into institutions. In view of the fact that, as in the field of art, the underlying data are not yet available, the amount of aid granted to individual municipalities will not be named in the 2016 Budget Act, and the Minister for Culture will decide on this until 5 January 2016 in the same manner as the support of former member institutions. The Budget Act shall contain only the amount of the appropriations. In the interests of transparency, the decision will have to be made public on www.kormany.hu and the Minister for Local Government will also make the decision data available to local authorities through the electronic system he operates. In view of this, it is necessary in the basic act to provide for the application of Article 91/A. Paragraph 2 shall also provide for the repeal or amendment of paragraph 2 of this Article. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude my speech by wishing everyone a meaningful sitting on Saturday and a good rest for the weekend. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-05-30-32	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr István Józsa, MSZP Group, will be speaking.
u2015-05-30-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, We have received a strong urge from some of the present members of the government side to approach the debate on the basis of serious professional arguments. I would like to do this, that is what I will do, but I assure you that this does not paint a better picture of your performance than perhaps a little passionately, at least with great passion, my fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, has said. 'Cause you guys really beat each other's shoulders. During the Prime Minister's speech yesterday, I saw that the Member who had just spoken in the first rows absorbed the positive energy which is very necessary for you, because otherwise the mood would be right for objective reasons. The excellent macroeconomic data, which Mr Nyitrai referred to as such in the last 15 years, make it possible that Hungary's classification has unfortunately been in the bóvli category for four years, the macro data assessed by objective professional organisations show this. Great result, I am also pleased that Fitch Ratings has now set out positive prospects for the former stable bivouquet at the end of last week. So it should be handled in its place by you before such a half-brick is patted breasts in the Hungarian Parliament. The bill before us, also commending themselves on the salad law, Dr. László Aradszki, Minister of State [[Intercoms from the benches of Fidesz: That singer! Andras!]] He did not exaggerate modesty, he praised themselves, how short the former law of his own... I said, in a consensual manner, that it was his own; yes, it is your own. This bill, the foundation of the budget, is often much more detailed. Yeah, you could be a lot more thorough. This is nothing more than correcting and correcting things that are not essentially relevant. As it stands, it is illegal for you to submit your budget, in violation of the debt formula you created, the law in force as of 1 January 2015. It does not bother you that both the State Audit Office and the Fiscal Council have drawn attention to this. I must add that, say, György Matolcsy did not sign this opinion, as it is his formula, which was still known to be impossible to keep. But now they do not choose the way to correct and set a realistic path for debt, but to reduce the criterion of reducing public debt to one tenth of a percent ridiculously; let us say that 70-something should be reduced by almost 80 percent in a year by one tenth. This contradicts your earlier promises, contradicts the self-gratitudes that you yourself are entitled to. It's a confessional self-discovery that you don't see more than a tenth of a percent reduction in public debt. The second is that data relating to the financing and debt management of the central sovereign debt subsystem are not public for two years. They also hide data generated during budgetary planning, but not part of the Budget Act. Within this period, the Minister responsible for public finances will allow access to these data only if Hungary's financial interests are not compromised. And that's for you to decide. Let me say, my fellow members of the government, that this is a typical case of the self-goal. Because the world economy is distrustful of you. That's what the bouncer category says. It is rightly said that this economic policy activity you are pursuing is not predictable. After that, instead of taking steps to strengthen transparency, you're going to put in another law of mistrust, so that we can back up your prognosis, we can keep that a secret. So you're saying there's no basis for your prognosis? Do you have anything to hide in this regard? We consider this counterproductive, so we'd protect you from it. The Stability Savings Account, in short, is a ten percent instead of a year, and what needs to be downloaded in the cold is a completely strange approach. This, in essence, degrades Hungary to an unacceptable level of tax haven. For some reason, it looks like they're in a hurry to make sure that the money they brought home after a year has been washed out, 10 percent washed out, is at your disposal - or at whose disposal, of course, I don't want to name it now. In any case, it is rather revealing that the previous five years of government bonds have suddenly been reduced to one year. It also frigates your promises of a previous tax reduction in order to impose the legal obligation to introduce a single-key corporate tax by 10 January 2020, when you are likely to have nothing to do with this far-off future. [[Márius Révész: You won't be anymore!]] Of course, you can do that if you happen to have something to do with it, like the Matolcsy formula, to extend your deadline. I just want to protect you. If you want to make a serious point of view on the part of the global economy, then take yourself seriously, do not bring about laws that will be postponed and ridiculed by pounds. Interestingly, what is written about the amendment of the Public Finance Act is that the staff of the budgetary body will not need to be counted against the public employees in the future. This almost offers itself, an invitation to waltz, an interest in providing the task with public employment. It is possible for the head of the budgetary body to improve his/her own perception of employment that he/she will not increase or even reduce his/her staff, while he/she may be able to carry out his/her duties in the public interest. [[10.30]] We would like to see the opposite of the law, so that public workers or current civil servants cannot be reduced by being dismissed and then re-employed as public employees for a much lower amount of money, because it is an enhanced means of exploitation. We would like to see a law to eliminate this. From an environmental point of view, it is clearly detrimental that the Mining Act will move the deadline further to the tasks related to land planning obligations, pushing it out to 2017, so that it will only have to be completed by the end of 2029. So it seems that you are not paying any attention to landscape planning, to the elimination of landscape damage from mining activities, and that you are putting it in the distant future. Based on all this, I would also like to dramatize the question of this formula of Matolcsy, which you are now afraid to abolish, but will be postponed for later, and now you will replace it with a ridiculous 0.1 percent. When the formula was presented, György Matolcsy described it as this: this is a modern formula - so modern that it is not even timely in your opinion, then it will be timely - so it is so modern that it helps us to hide the real processes - the government side. The state-of-the-art rule of the European Union - this debt rule, which was then adopted - is also a serious weapon in economic history, so much so that you will postpone your arms to your feet, this weapon for the distant future. It would have been good to tackle the problem that this weapon might have been put back on the ground before the budget has been submitted, or put back on its feet, because, as it stands, it is against the law to present your budget. I wouldn't fit in a constitutional republic, not even in a monarchy, but in a republic, it would certainly not be appropriate for Parliament to adopt a budget law, a major law that violates a valid law. On this basis, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you not to reduce transparency, but to increase transparency, to take it seriously that the basis for improving the investment environment is to create confidence, create investor confidence, and not to use encryption, but to increase transparency. You don't want to lie in the eyes of professionals, because they're gonna find out from the cross-data. So this salad law acts against public trust in all the elements I've mentioned, it exposes your deceitful policy, and, as a result, it is not in the interests of the country, nor in the interests of the national economy. So I ask you to take yourselves seriously, if you will, take seriously the words of your leader, Prime Minister, yesterday: learn from your mistakes and not adopt such a salad law. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-05-30-34	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As no one made a two-minute speech, we have reached the end of the speeches announced in writing. In a normal time frame, Mr Mihály Witzmann, Fidesz Group, asked for the floor. I give you the floor.
u2015-05-30-35	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We have heard many opposition speeches, fortunately, and that is why I hope and hope that this will be a constructive debate here today, but, if I may, I would like to respond to some opposition opinions in a few thoughts. I would like to start from behind, and I would like to respond in the first instance to what my colleague István Józsa said, as Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's speech yesterday, I am pleased to see that the socialists also followed him very closely. [[Dr. István Józsa: He is the Prime Minister!]] They must have gained much useful information from this speech, and they must have learned a great deal from it. [[Dr. István Józsa: Yeah, the mistakes!]] It's about time, I think. With regard to the Bóvl category, it is obvious that Congressman Józsa targeted credit rating agencies. The problem is that stable plus typical classification is expected for credit rating agencies at the moment, and otherwise additional ratings are expected this year. But it would be worth recalling what this classification was like between 2008 and 2010, what classification we were at then, and, you know, I'm thinking about when you brought this country to a close state after your successful governance. [[Dr. István Józsa: That is not true either.]] I am thinking of this in particular why we have come to the point where we need to hold on to the credit rating agencies at all times, why we have come to the state that we are fighting for the fifth year now, and it would be good for you to be partners in this, at least in order to develop a little remorse, because we have not caused this situation, but you, honourable Member. [[Dr. István Józsa: The global economic crisis!]] I would also like to respond to the words of the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Sándor Burány. I was surprised to hear that Fidesz hasn't had a consistent and sound economic policy for years. That is what the President of the Commission, Mr Nándor Gúr, said. [[Nándor Gúr: Sándor Burány, but don't worry about it.]] Well, if this statement is true, then I think that the Fidesz-KDNP government should play the lottery in any way, because it is purely because of great luck and due to economic growth, which is above 3 per cent, the expansion of employment, in which my fellow Member Nándor Gúr regularly disagrees with us, but in the light of the figures we can see that the number of employees has gone from 3.7 million to 4.1 million, has not worked so much in Hungary in 23 years. [[Nándor Gúr: Because of the public workers!]] And I would like to say very quickly that the number of people employed has increased, not because of the public workers, but primarily in the economic sphere, in the competition sector. [[Nándor Gúr: Look at the KSH report.]] Then, if this economic policy is so bad, I don't know, the reduction in wages, public sector wage increases, keeping the general government deficit below 3 per cent, which, unfortunately, hasn't been successful in any year, I'm sure you remember that that's why Brussels launched the excessive deficit procedure against us, which, by the way, was terminated during the Fidesz-KDNP administration. [[Nándor Gúr: At what cost?]] Maybe it's just luck. Then the reduction of personal income tax: we are now talking about a 32 percent maximum tax rate of 15 percent; it is falling by less than half. [[Dr. István Józsa: This is the next agenda!]] With regard to family support, I think it is worth looking back at, also for the duration of your governance, because we were the ones who brought back the forms of family support that you have taken and abolished once again with the increase of two years to three years, or with the re-introduction of family tax incentives, or with innovations such as ged extra or even the re-introduction of baby bonds. And while the Socialist Party is talking about economic failures, it would also be worth comparing how much inflation was in your time and how much it is now. Well, now it's barely measurable. [[Interruption from the ranks of the MSZP.]] , to be exact...
u2015-05-30-36	Excuse me, Congressman. My fellow Members, there is an opportunity to speak, please do so when it comes to it. Thank you. Go on, Congressman.
u2015-05-30-37	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. President, for your help. We must have gotten used to the fact that the socialists are few, but they are very loud. We have to live with it here in Parliament, although I've only been a Member of Parliament for a year, but I'm used to it, so it doesn't bother me, but thank you for your help. And if economic policy is so bad, it is worth talking about a reduction in public debt. [[10.40]] The Fidesz-KDNP government has broken its knife in the fight against sovereign debt - there was a sentence like this from Congressman Sándor Burány. Well, there are two problems with this, one of them is that it is not true, because in 2002 the debt-to-GDP ratio was around 8000 billion in Hungary, around 52-53 percent in 2002, when you took over the government, and then, as a result of your extremely successful governance, by 2010, after eight years of socialist governance, this rose by about 200 percent. It has increased from 8000 billion to more than 22,000 billion in nominal terms. This represents 83-84 percent of GDP, by the way. After that, we can talk to anyone in this Parliament about the increase in public debt, but not the socialists, I think. And where are we now after five years of Fidesz-KNDP governance? Indeed, you are right that at nominal value - and then let us clarify this question. -, the government debt has indeed increased numerically [[Nándor Gúr intervenes.]] [[Nándor Gúr intervenes.]] [[Nándor Gúr intervenes.]] [[Nándor Gúr intervenes.]] the Hungarian government debt is now nominally above HUF 24 thousand billion. By the way, I'll tell you this in five years (Nándor Gúr intervenes.) About 10 percent increase, you've produced 200 percent in eight years. The fact is, fellow Members, that nominally public debt will increase until we can produce a budget that will not be minus (Nándor Gúr intervenes) As long as we don't have a zero balance - you didn't, by the way. (Nándor Gúr intervenes. ) I think it is a huge achievement that the deficit in the budget of about 17,000 billion has been able to climb below a thousand billion forints in the current budget in 2015, which is a huge achievement. But since you have managed to start economic growth, which you have failed to do - and here I would also like to indicate that between 2008 and 2010, as I understand it, this value was minus 7 percent, you know, I am talking about the time of the Gyurcsány and Bajnai governments - we are talking about negative 7 percent of economic growth now, according to the latest figures this year, plus 3.4 percent of economic growth. And as long as there is economic growth, despite the annual deficit of the budget or public finances, public debt is still falling in proportion to the percentage of GDP. [[Nándor Gúr: Look at it next year!]] [[Nándor Gúr intervenes.]] The Hungarian government debt is now nominally above HUF 24 thousand billion. By the way, I'll tell you this in five years (Nándor Gúr intervenes.) About 10 percent increase, you've produced 200 percent in eight years. The fact is, fellow Members, that nominally public debt will increase until we can produce a budget that will not be minus (Nándor Gúr intervenes) As long as we don't have a zero balance - you didn't, by the way. (Nándor Gúr intervenes. ) I think it is a huge achievement that the deficit in the budget of about 17,000 billion has been able to climb below a thousand billion forints in the current budget in 2015, which is a huge achievement. But since you have managed to start economic growth, which you have failed to do - and here I would also like to indicate that between 2008 and 2010, as I understand it, this value was minus 7 percent, you know, I am talking about the time of the Gyurcsány and Bajnai governments - we are talking about negative 7 percent of economic growth now, according to the latest figures this year, plus 3.4 percent of economic growth. And as long as there is economic growth, despite the annual deficit of the budget or public finances, public debt is still falling in proportion to the percentage of GDP. (Nándor Gúr: Look at it next year!) It would be nice for the socialists to take this into account, not so complicated mathematics, I think. (Nándor Gúr interrupts.) The second question about sovereign debt is that it is indeed worth asking the question of who it was that at the time the debt-to-GDP ratio rose from 52 per cent to almost 84 per cent. [[Nándor Gúr: I'll tell you why!]] You're not gonna tell me this was Fidesz, are you? I hope we agree on that. The other one I wrote here, Sándor Burány, also said that it was fun to hear the speech by the lead speaker of Fidesz. Well, we cannot say that to the head speaker of the MSZP, unfortunately, his speech was not amusing at all; it was rather sad to hear that the socialists, rather than even admit the economic results of the last few years, questioned it with their continued critical comments. And if the economic policy produced and implemented by the Fidesz-KDNP government is indeed so unsuccessful, then I do not know why international credit rating agencies that have preferred to judge us for many years or why the IMF or even the European Union are increasingly declaring their economic performance in recent years. However, I agree with you - so that the debate is constructive - that, despite the results, we are still not where we want to be, and there are still a lot of problems that we should be able to solve together. But I think that it would be a great help for the government to continue to pursue a successful, effective economic policy if we could hear constructive opposition opinions here in this Chamber, with a positive intention, rather than expressing many misplaced criticisms. [[Nándor Gúr and Dr. István Józsa: That's all you've heard!]] Unfortunately, we didn't experience that again today. Once again, I've been a Member of Parliament for a year, unfortunately I'm getting used to it, but I'm not sure that's the case. [[Nándor Gúr intervenes.]] Then I would like to respond to what Nándor Gúr said, not only to the speeches of the socialists, but also to prevent my fellow Member from missing out. [[Dr. István Józsa intervenes.]] The majority of the people have suffered for your five years - there was a sentence like that, my fellow Member, I'm sure you remember. The truth is, most of the people have suffered eight years of your life, very much. [[Nándor Gúr: You've been ruling for the sixth year! Dr. István Józsa: Go out to the demonstration!]] This, by the way, I think, in 2010... [[Nándor Gúr: You've been ruling for six years!]] I also believe that the certificate was clearly issued in 2010 and that the people took a stand. So we should not be pointed at about the failures, but we should look at ourselves a little, respected socialists. [[Nándor Gúr: You've been ruling for six years! Dr. István Józsa: Self-deception! Don't flatter yourself.]] I'm so sorry that Erzsébet Schmuck isn't here anymore. [[Intercoms: Here it is!]] - here - as the lead speaker of the LMP... [[Dr. István Józsa and Nándor Gúr: There he is, notary!]] He's upstairs, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm glad; I'm sorry, notary, I can't see from here. She said in her speech that we were living in another country. Madam Member, Commissioner, I think that you are living in another country. So when it comes to criticism of the government, which, by the way, were clearly the success stories of the last five years, that is to say, the case of employment, where unemployment has fallen from almost 12 percent to around 7 percent, or the system of family support, I have just spoken about it, so I would not wish to repeat it, or the economic growth that has also been mentioned, which has been criticised... There are a lot of criticisms to be said, by the way, dear notary, I think, but to cling to exactly what is in the language of facts and numbers - the numbers are stubborn things, as we say - absolutely not constructive. Finally, I would just like to say that I accept that it is up to the opposition at the time to criticize the current government, and I am sure that in the case of your government, also in the case of the MSZP government, the opposition at that time did so, but it is important that they do so on the basis of factuality. And I would not like to lecture you here, with my experience of one-year parliamentary representatives of experienced, routine Members, but I think it would be very important to establish a healthy national minimum for the country's advancement - and unfortunately, in this debate today, I have not seen any sign of it. [[Dr. István Józsa intervenes.]] and this is largely due to the opposition. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-30-38	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A statement will be made by Mr President Novak, Jobbik Group. I give you the floor.
u2015-05-30-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I find it amazing that while former informants, state security agents, are being protected by the government, he's declaring war on advertising agents. They want to make advertising agencies, small and medium-sized enterprises, virtually outlaw their activities. These small and medium-sized business advertising agencies have turned to Jobbik in bulk either directly or through interest representation groups. The weakening and elimination of these companies from the system can also bring unacceptable political benefits to the government that many of the media will be directly at the government and should be lynched for order at the government, so it will be even more justified to be good with a media player in the state if they want any government advertising at all, and under the current government this is at least a huge section of the market. This, I think, is not a healthy setup, nor was it fair that the ad tax was used to blackmail various media, especially, say, the RTL Club, to make them even more government-friendly. This is not what the various laws are for; they should be done on a principle basis, not by reaching into it as content editing and making the various media even more government-friendly. Obviously, there is a false justification, which is also mentioned in the bill, that they want to change the current system because the market conditions have been distorted so far, because they are just being distorted. As the head of one advertising agency said, the introduction of a fixed commission of 15 per cent basically destroys market conditions, which is like a government law setting the price of bread, milk, gas, sugar, computer or even hair clipping. Indeed, they are violently involved in market processes with this proposal, and this entails a new concentration of power. In fact, according to some advertising agencies, this current proposal is mainly for the fact that the contracts currently committed, which have been concluded for up to years in advance, and which, even here, in their war with Lajos Simicska, have regretted having been committed for a few years in advance, must now be broken down and retiring. This is obviously interesting where, say, six months ago, a year ago, huge advertising contracts were concluded up to years in advance - of course, they would be concluded with someone else today, but they cannot legally be terminated. Now, because of the amendment of the law, of course, it may be justified to terminate these contracts. This bill does not comply with the requirements of the legislative law either, since it is subject to Article 2 (2). Paragraph 3 states that the date of entry into force of the legislation must be determined in such a way that there is sufficient time to prepare for the application of the legislation, and now these paragraphs are set out in paragraphs 44 to 46. They shall enter into force 15 days after the publication of the law. I believe that this is unacceptable, and that the necessary preparation time is not guaranteed to the market, which has been seen as a lightning strike by this regulation, because the banning of a service that has been useful to advertisers, as a party to us, and we cannot understand everything, of course, you tend to say that about yourself, we do not claim this, we have experts, or campaign professionals are not only within the party, but those who, let's say, select billboards or negotiate with advertising agencies are indeed advertising agencies, and this is prohibited as if, let's say, in the future, graphics activities were banned and said that this advertiser should be solved by himself, learn to manage these programs. [[10.50]] You may understand, say, retouching - we can see it here in everyday life - but still, graphical tasks, which are, where appropriate, an important pillar of creative advertising, cannot, in my view, be banned in the same way as advertising agencies would normally not be in the process of creating and displaying advertising. And why are we saying that this makes small and medium-sized enterprises in particular impossible? Not only because they complained to us, while the greats silently listen, at least so much we do not hear their protests, but also because it is logical that the large companies, which can carry out media analysis, attitude analysis, any kind of market research, will still be able to survive. They may somehow carry out the service themselves, so one of their people will be implanted, say, to the advertiser, or even free of charge, in exchange for being commissioned for much larger orders and market research, which is clearly not carried out by smaller businesses with some members. So they will be impossible if this mediation is terminated. And who's happy about this other than big companies? The biggest ones, Google, Facebook, where there has never been an intermediary before, since the system has always been built on the fact that the ads were ordered directly by the users most of the time. Moreover, I do not even know how they imagine this, they are again chasing businesses, not only workers but also businesses, they are not only travelling abroad as economic refugees, they are now almost a million active age, but they are also forcing businesses abroad, for example, a Google not only advertises on its own pages like Facebook, but also sends out advertisements to a significant extent, you might say, as an agency. I would be interested to know how you plan to regulate Google, perhaps further expand the Internet censorship, and now you want not only to ban the most read right-wing news portal, Kuruc.info, to block some of its pages, to make it impossible to reach them, as László Kövér of the State has already done in the National Assembly, going above the law, extending this to the most read right-wing news portal, but you are now planning to ban Google's pages because Google is not willing to abandon its agency activities? Because this is actually happening in Hungary, too, that you can post targeted ads on Google's pages, also displayed on other sites. I think that this proposal is unthinkable and not technically sufficiently prepared. And you may have experienced it, too, and you may have received those protests that may have spread in a circular. If you read your e-mail - I do not expect you to answer it, because we have seen in recent years that you are unfortunately unwilling to do so - for example, you have received your circular and your letter of protest for small and medium-sized enterprises represented by Katalin Duhayné Orbán and Katalin Halmos, the title was that the Hungarian small business ad agency asked for the help of the Hungarian Parliament. It was a cry for help after seeing this bill, because, as they say, the following bill makes advertising agencies operating in Hungary's small and medium-sized enterprises impossible. These companies of one or two or three cannot compete with the huge advertising service providers. At the entry into force of the law, we lose our jobs immediately, we cease to be Hungarian citizens who pay taxes. Among other things, the call from which I have just quoted, which you have received, must have been left unanswered unless the adoption of this law itself is the impertinent and impertinent response you are about to give. However, when these cry for help came to us, we dug even more into this issue, and, for example, I contacted the Association of Hungarian Marketing, with which we have already discussed several times, and here, for example, in relation to advertising tax, I have also broadcast their criticism and professional criticism, so it is not that they want to change the tax rate, because it is a political decision, but there are also professional reservations and criticisms. So let me quote Hinora Ference, who, as president of the Hungarian Marketing Association, sent me a resolution on my request. It says, among other things, that "The abolition of the media bonus is not the biggest problem in the current planned government measures, its more damaging, dangerous and more market-destructive impact is seen with the other element. The aim of the planned measure is to force the advertiser and the media owner to enter into direct contractual relations with the law to prevent the bonus. This means that the process would exclude all the actors in advertising that have provided media service to the advertiser. If this happens, only the agencies that provide creative services can close the store. The advertising process will simply have no place, role and purpose in the media service sector of advertising. Of course, the media owners would not be in contact with the agencies either, because they would retain the resulting costs as an extra profit compared to the previous ones. So the ad won't be cheaper. The Hungarian Marketing Association also emphasizes that there are a lot of small agencies in Hungary, much more than a large international agency, all of which would be in danger and disappearing. The legislator cannot wish that small Hungarian-owned companies, in many cases family-owned companies, should cease to exist, thus increasing unemployment. In addition, if it is limited to who the agencies can sign with, the above will all come true. There may also be major changes on the advertiser's side, as they will be forced to advertise on platforms for which an agency has not yet been required. For example, Facebook and Google. They, too, came to mind, logically, this consequence, on which the government did not seem to think. But finally, to quote a few more closing lines of the Hungarian Marketing Association: with this measure of the legislator, it will increase the revenues of international multinational companies, and on the other hand it will jeopardise the existence of Hungarian-owned small agencies. In this sense, the MSZP could applaud, as it would fit in with their previous government. But let's not talk about your election program, it wasn't like that for you guys, they were selling bagcats, or at least they couldn't fit into their promises. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In our opinion, the bonus of the two crisis centres is not the more dangerous - it is still said by the Hungarian Marketing Association, they believe that it is possible to deal with new contract and operating structures and techniques - but to abolish contract freedom by law. In addition, there is no going without a word, this is free competition, capitalism, the disregard of fundamental freedoms. '"' said Ferenc Hinora, president of the Hungarian Marketing Association, 'which I would be pleased if you considered these thoughts. We've considered theirs, the other organizations. It was also in the news that the Association of Hungarian Communications Agencies called for the withdrawal of the government's proposal, because according to the proposal, both the media and advertisers would be subject to additional significant costs and unmanageable administrative burdens, and the media agencies operating on the market would be impossible. For administrative and capacity reasons, much fewer media owners will be able to enter into contracts with advertisers, increase market concentration, and many smaller media may lose their advertising revenue. So indeed, not only advertising agencies, but also smaller media are impossible. The Association of Hungarian Communications Agencies has also pointed out that it will also hit advertisers, that while a significant proportion of the quantitative bonuses are currently shared by the agencies with the advertiser side, this refund will cease to apply to advertisers after entry into the law. So they also support the fact that they will swallow the bonuses one-on-one. With all this in mind, Dr. Gábor Staudt and I have tabled a proposal on the bill 44-46. Section I, the abolition of the whole thing. So this, which would actually ban this advertising agency activity, because we would like, as I said, to allow, as graphical and many other activities that help the advertising industry, on the basis of the needs of the market. For reasons, we point out that this regulation would have a distorting effect on the market if it were adopted and if it could also restrict competition. We also do not consider it justified to determine the level of the advertising brokerage fee, as it would make the competition sector uncompetitive by setting a practically official price. This also violates the principle of freedom of contract. Therefore, what the professional organisations have formulated has been incorporated into this amending proposal as a justification. I presented this only so that they would not feel remorse to vote unread, at least the few Members who are here on this Saturday can hear it, and at least not without consideration, but with good consideration, to vote professional organisations either in the face, but deliberately, while the rest will obviously be unread. [[11.00]] Finally, I would also like to remind you that you should consider banning government advertising. I think it would be enough to put it out in public media for free or even there for money, but the point is, I wouldn't outsource these government propagandas if they thought it was justified at all. This is obviously a political debate on why this is necessary and why it is not ethical, but if it is considered justified, do so in the public media. But the fact that billions, tens of billions of people are being spent on government propaganda, even within the framework of the national consultation, is also a genre of this, not to the greatest pleasure of Gábor Kubatov, but it is obviously also a collection of data, but it is also a government propaganda, so I think that there is no reason for different billboard campaigns to be launched here. It would be appropriate to launch public campaigns to protect the lives of the fetus, for example, to draw attention to the biggest problem in Hungary, the demographic disaster, as this is Hungary's biggest problem today. I therefore think that they should think about very different regulations, such as the ban on government propaganda. If you'll allow me one more minute, I don't have to press another button - thank you very much - I would also like to remind you that there has been a lot of abuse here at the government propaganda. I also filed a complaint when I found that, through one of Lajos Simicska's advertising companies, in previous years, they continued their activities, government propaganda, for eight times the market price. So it wasn't true until now that you were driven by saving money. And when I filed a complaint, the D.A.'s office wiped out that amazing reason, even denying the investigation, that in itself the fact that in a public procurement procedure without publication of a notice - because that is how Lajos Simicska's company won - he won an order for a multiple of the market price - is not a suspicion of a crime that would require even one investigation. That's what the D.A.'s office said, and we couldn't even use legal remedies, because in the past years, you guys have abolished the possibility of bringing your complaint to second base with a complaint, an appeal, and at least one investigation that you're trying to enforce. We have no more words, no more votes, no more points, the case is closed, but it is amazing what we have experienced, because as a party, we know market prices, not friendly, market prices, and it was the same way that we conducted a thousand billboard campaigns like you, once here, a government propaganda, and we also saw this market price for the better price that we received from companies for eight times that. And that could have been without consequences. I'm asking you to think, it would be much more justified to stop the government propaganda than to regulate and ban advertising. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-05-30-40	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr István Józsa, MSZP Group, applied for a two-minute speech. I give you the floor.
u2015-05-30-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, They cannot say that I am not susceptible to a factual debate here on a professional basis. At the same time, my colleague, Mr Siófok, had a sincere statement that he had been a Member for a year. In addition, it was either the dark indiscretion or the deliberate distortion that marked his contribution. He told me about the growth path. Please take a look at the economic statistics from 2008-2009, broken down into every quarter. The deep end of the crisis, which was the result of a global economic crisis, fell by the first half of 2009, and, you know, in economic statistics, if two quarters in a row are positive, they say that the economy is on a growth path. Now, this is how we handed over governance in May 2010: it was positive in the last quarter of 2009 and in the first quarter of 2010. So I would very much ask you to take this into account, even because if you look at the diagram, this dynamic lasted until the second half of 2011 [[Interjection from the pro-government line: Do you believe it?]] When I don't say it's only as a result of your government, but it's gone negative, into recession. So I'm asking you to stick to the facts, aside from the fact that you can represent the victims of closing the store in Siófok, because that's why it's not good for your election district. If you also want to stay on the ground of reality, think about the saying to my fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, that a year's rest is 10%. It's still called money laundering in the world. So don't be so proud of that. For once, I must agree with what we have heard from Jobbik's benches that there is a market stranger to such an amendment of the advertising law. There's no such thing as a law that says 10 percent, 15 percent, or any fixed value. So I have to say, from a legitimate point of view, it's skandalum. Thank you, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2015-05-30-42	Thank you. Dear Parliament, For a two-minute speech, Mr Márius Révész, Fidesz Group, has applied. You have the floor.
u2015-05-30-43	Thank you very much. Dear House, Indeed, my colleague Józsa is right that economic growth has indeed been. But, Congressman, at what cost? We lived up to the future. Congressman, on average, government debt was increased by 4 percent per year, from 52 per cent to 84 per cent of GDP. When it was growth, this growth was indeed a burden to the future. Let me just give you one figure: hundreds of billions of HUF of government debt and interest burden increases have been generated in this system. Compared to this year, interest charges will decrease by HUF 70 billion in the following year. But they grew by hundreds of billions of forints because of this incredible debt. So when it was growth, it was very much different from the current growth, Member, because now the Hungarian economy is able to grow by reducing public debt otherwise. At your time, the Hungarian economy has grown so that public debt has increased enormously, and this will have to be paid to future generations in later years. Mr Congressman, let me say that I have been a Member since 98, this is my 17th budget, but such a budget has never been before this House in 17 years, when we count on a deficit of 2 percent, with an economic growth of 2.5 percent, there are career plans when there is a HUF 170 billion debt reduction in the system compared to the following year. They tell me several times that this is a hit-and-run budget. Congressman, we would have been so happy if you'd made such failing budgets between 2002 and 2010 [[Dr. István Józsa: 50 percent wage development!]] and the harmful effects of this amok run 5-6-10 years after their government, by the way, should not be paid from the current budgets! Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-05-30-44	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] Yes, I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP Group.
u2015-05-30-45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Debt, debt growth. After 2002, you left behind a large package about the lending burden of a housing program, remembering it. That was about 5 percent of the debt's growth. Between 12 and 14 percent is the amount that created the security of public pension funding in connection with the introduction of private pension funds. You took out that 3000 billion forints, you stole it - it's not a personal story, obviously - from people, and then you burned this money. When the government was transferred, between 4-6 percent of the money was found in cash, which is virtually reflected in the value of the debt growth rate. That's more than 20 percent of the three numbers. In English, real debt growth, which is part of our period of government, is a single digit; it is not good, but it is a single digit. You have now made a debt increase of HUF 5000 billion in five years or more or even at the border. One word for it, it's not worth talking about, because they don't come out of the story. The other part is that I'm only telling you to do what you've promised, with great help, with great respect, nothing but what you've promised me to do. Create a million new jobs in the economy, support people, especially people working at low income levels, and take measures that do not put two and a half million people in a position to live their lives below the minimum living standards and take measures that are in the interest of the people. Not yours, not your moonyard, the interests of the people. Encourage your prime minister, Orbán, to do so. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2015-05-30-46	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Mihály Witzmann, Fidesz Group, has spoken. I give you the floor.
u2015-05-30-47	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'll be quick. I would just like to respond to what my colleague István Józsa said then. I'm glad we learned that Fidesz-KDNP has taken over this country's management in excellent condition. [[Dr. István Józsa: Growth!]] The only problem with this sentence, honourable Member, is that we have heard this only from you. So, apart from you, there is no economic expert in this country and any other economic experts you pay for this country, there is no economic expert in this country who would have dared to say it like you did. [[Dr. István Józsa: I didn't say that! Nándor Gúr intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] [[11.10]] I'm sure we can agree on one thing. The global economic crisis was called... [[Dr. István Józsa to Dr. András Aradszki: András, talk to him! Look at the record.]] Let me finish, Congressman. The global economic crisis is called the global crisis because it has spread not only to Hungary, but to Europe as a whole, and even to the world as a whole, to almost all countries. In this regard: if this is the case - and I think we can agree on this as a form of statute - and if we were in such a great economic situation between 2008 and 10, why did international analysts consider Hungary, besides Greece, the country most vulnerable to state bankruptcy? That was my question for the purpose of my speech. Thank you very much. [[Dr. István Józsa: It wasn't like that! He was successful in Hungary...]]
u2015-05-30-48	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I should now be giving you two-minute speeches. Since no one has applied for a two-minute speech, we will start a new round. I give the floor to Congressman Márius Révész, Fidesz Group.
u2015-05-30-49	Thank you for the floor. I promise I'll be very brief, too. In 2002 - we learned from Nándor Gúr - they took over the country wrong, and we handed it over wrong. This is somewhat contradicted by the fact that at that time there was a socialist prime minister named Péter Medgyessy, who said otherwise. Among other things, he said that the country is in such a state that the euro can be introduced in Hungary in 2007, at the latest in 2008. A few years have been governed and the introduction of the euro has not come close, but is constantly moving away. And the thing is, I'm going to tell you again what I just said: it's not right to recall - you're right about that - for the last eight years. But when the situation is left behind, because of your 8 years of government, you have to pay 200-300 billion forints more interest per year, put it into the budget than it would have to be if it were 53 percent, let's say, the government debt, as you took over the country, is a meat-cutting issue. It is meaty because these career programs, which, by the way, were introduced by the police in the interest of teachers, were allowed to call Nándor Gúr - these career programs are not all that expensive - they are not all! - as much as you make us pay for interest. The fact that we are downgraded and have a much more expensive credit is again a damaging consequence of the government that we are now making an amazing effort to be graded back to the recommended category for investment, and that we would be revalued. All analysts, including Fitch, said that there is only one obstacle to downgrading: that there is an extremely high public debt-to-GDP ratio. And this extremely high public debt, Congressman, we did not bring this together, and we owe this extremely high public debt to you, by the way. And by not qualifying us higher, although the market has already calculated this, otherwise we are forced to pay more money constantly, year after year. If the 200 billion forints that we owe to you in the amount of extra interest would now be here in the budget, then we could launch an extremely great career program for social workers. The problem, Mr President, is that because of your unblessed heritage, the budget must start by setting the amount of HUF 1000 billion to be paid for interest expenditure. [[Nándor Gúr: Do not judge, do.]] That is why I think that Viktor Orbán and the government are working to the full in the interests of the people, when they are trying to pursue an economic policy that is realistic when economic growth is financed not by credit, but by the capacity of the country, and by which they will make it possible for the large international credit rating agencies to put the country back into a category recommended for investment. If we can achieve this - in spite of your opposition - then I believe that we have indeed managed to govern it in the interests of the Hungarian people. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-30-50	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Once again, I ask if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Béla Glattfelder, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-05-30-51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Obviously, I cannot and cannot respond to everything that has been said in this debate, because the Parliament has had quite a long debate on many issues, but please allow me, on behalf of the Government, to thank all the Members who have contributed to the debate for their participation. So I will only touch on a few questions. The first one. I would like to reiterate that the bill on the basis of the central budget is a legal basis for the budget. The government had previously carried out the financial and accounting foundation of the Finance Act. Legal basis is necessary to ensure legal stability for the budget. If, by the way, this were to be adopted before the budget and, later on, the Parliament wanted to amend the budget law, it would create a legally unstable situation, so that is the normal logic of this, and that is right. The second thing I would like to highlight from the debate is the issue of debt regulation. It is quite clear that the reduction of public debt will continue to be ensured by the Fundamental Law and that the bill complies with the conditions and requirements of the Fundamental Law, so that the debt will be further reduced. By the way, I think the debate on debt was extremely interesting, and if I may, at the end of my speech, I would also like to address this and make a few comments. The introduction of this new rule is important so that Hungary can make even better use of the potential for economic growth in the next period, taking into account the interests of the people. As regards the transparency and transparency of the budget: this is not affected. The regulation is clearly in line with the current legislation of the Act on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information. It is simply that in the future, we intend to provide greater protection for data that would harm the interests of the country and of the people, which would serve speculation against the country and not the balanced economic growth of the country. Otherwise, data which may continue to be disclosed in the future, without prejudice to the economic interests of the country, may continue to be made available to the public. There was a speech that affected horse racing betting, fearing that someone in the field of horse racing betting might gain exclusive rights over others. I would like to say that the aim of the bill is to prepare the Hungarian connection to the French, five-inch plus game. We are now creating the legal framework for this and allowing meaningful negotiations with the French party to be opened to this end. Following the establishment of the legal framework, a property policy decision will be taken, which will allow the Hungarian connection to the,, five-inning plus, game only for state organizers and state-owned organizers. So it's not like there's any private interest in this area. Among the current state-owned companies, the Hungarian Horse Competition Betting Ltd. or Gambling Plc. it can be - as exclusively state-owned companies - that can be offered access to horse racing betting thanks to legislation, so private interests will not be available here. [[11.20]] As regards debt, Hungary's macroeconomic indicators and the performance of the Hungarian economy in general: I consider it an indisputable fact, and no one in the world disputes that the Hungarian economy is performing well. One of the best performing countries in Europe is Hungary, whether we look at economic growth figures, whether we look at growth figures for industrial production, whether we look at employment growth figures, the decline in unemployment, the increase in consumption, the reduction in public debt, the reduction in government deficits or the balance of payments data. What is more, it can be said that if someone looks at - it appears every week - on the back of the renowned international business paper called Economist, at the end of the last pages, the tables, where macroeconomic data from several countries are compared, can be seen that, over the past six months, all data in Hungary is good and improved, so that, for all of our competitors, at least one of the data can be learned from the macroeconomic data measured there. Thus, one of their data is always deteriorating or unfavorable. However, Hungarian data are constantly improving and good. So you can see that in Hungary it is quite interesting, it can be said that we have achieved unusual economic results. By the way, I do not think it is right for any political consideration to underestimate these results or, in particular, to try to deny them to the public. In particular, because we all know that the decision of economic operators is significantly influenced by what they consider to be the current state of the economy and what their prospects are. If, by the way, those prospects are painted darker out of self-substantiated political intent than they really are, they may, in their own faith, take some political advantage, but it is certain that they do not serve the economic interests of the country, and in particular do not serve the economic interests of the enterprises that might have listened to them. I would therefore like to ask, especially for those who have increased the Hungarian government debt from 52 per cent to 84 per cent in their own governance period, while not only the public debt has increased, but also the debt of individuals has increased enormously, so not only public debt but also private debt has been allowed to skyrocket, they should show more modesty and restraint in this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-30-52	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments were submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the bill to amend certain laws relating to taxation will follow until closure. The submission is T/4741. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Gábor Orbán, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-05-30-53	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The tax package before you is the shortest bill in recent years on this subject, because there is no need to introduce complicated changes into the law thanks to a calm, predictable, secure and credible governance. The proposal primarily serves as a basis for the revenue side of the 2016 budget and as a basis for the implementation of government priorities, tax reduction and support for families. One of the most important objectives of the Cabinet remains to reduce the tax on income and make the single-digit personal income tax rate available in the foreseeable future. By achieving this goal, it is an important step to reduce the general rate of personal income tax from 16 to 15 percent, leaving between 110 and 120 billion forints for families alone. With the decision of the Parliament last year, the tax relief of families with two children has already been extended. This measure will be effective from 2016. The enforceable discount will be doubled in four years, from HUF 10 thousand to HUF 20 000 per child in 2019. As a result of the measures now proposed and already adopted, childrenless families with two average earners can bring more than HUF 4700 to their homes next year - this means HUF 56 000 per year - while families with two children living on minimum wage earn more than HUF 7100 per month and HUF 85 000 per year. In the case of families raising two children, earning an average income, the income may increase by more than HUF 9,000 per month. There is no significant conceptual change in the area of corporate taxation, but the bill ensures that a number of positive provisions can be introduced. As early as the 2015 tax year, the so-called growth tax credit discount could be applied. The essence of this is that undertakings complying with certain conditions may defer payment of the tax and perform it in eight instalments in two tax years. With this discount, the most dynamically emerging, legally operating companies can have more resources to expand their activities and to grow further, as the corporate tax that should be paid in the year of growth will remain with them and will only have to pay a number of smaller instalments later. As far as the bank tax is concerned, the bill provides for the reduction of the bank tax's upper rate for credit institutions and the determination of the tax base in the balance sheet total for 2014. Since a change in the tax base or the reduction in the tax rate alone would not necessarily mean a reduction in the bank tax payable to all credit institutions, there is therefore a provision whereby the tax payable can reach the maximum amount of the tax due in 2015. Dear House, The amendment on general turnover taxation is primarily intended to reduce even existing black trade in the pig sector. To this end, as from 1 January, the VAT rate of 5% will also be extended to the sale of pig meat, which will result in that reduced rate applying to the whole pig production track. Since lower-income families tend to favour the consumption of pigmeat, reducing the VAT on pig meat from 27% to 5 percent will also help those in need, as the significant tax reduction returns in prices. Dear Parliament, The tax reduction is also reflected in the tax on public utility lines, as the proposal provides that the public utility lines on the new track will not be subject to public utility taxes for five years. In the event that the owner of the communication line develops its communications line in such a way that it allows for very fast access to data link internet for subscribers with a speed of at least 100 megabit/second, it may reduce its tax base for five years with the length of the line covered by the development. These changes are, I believe, conducive to the establishment and development of public utility lines, but, above all, of communications lines capable of providing broadband internet services. [[11.30]] It is a well-known fact, on the other hand, that the treatment of tobacco-related diseases is a significant expense to the budget. The partial coverage of these expenditures should be charged directly to manufacturers and distributors of tobacco products. Therefore, we are proposing that the health contribution of tobacco businesses should be transformed into a public burden to be paid on a continuous basis. The part of the proposal that would amend the local tax law could contribute to an increase in the income of general practitioners. From 2016 onwards, it would therefore be possible for local authorities to set a tax advantage in their regulation on business tax, either tax exemption or tax relief for general practitioners if the tax base of the general practitioner is up to HUF 10 million and 80 percent of its income is derived from general medical practice. Honourable Members, As from 1 January 2016, 3 per cent of the gaming tax of gambling casinos can be used for game protection and charity purposes, the proposal amends the law on the organisation of gambling. Since, for the year 2016, after deduction of the concession fee, we expect HUF 6.2 billion of toy tax revenue from the casino sector, this provision provides that at least HUF 186 million can be used directly in 2016 to prevent and manage any harmful mental, psychological or social effects associated with gambling. T/4730 on Hungary's central budget for 2016. Legislative bill No. 1 refers to the implementation of the new player protection source in the EMMI chapter. The additional resources provided by the gaming tax from 2016 will be used mainly to improve community benefits for players with problems and gambling who are currently operating through the social care system. Honourable Members, I ask for your support for the tax changes that have been reported, and I thank you for your attention.
u2015-05-30-54	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I reminded you that the Parliament had decided to negotiate the general debate on this proposal within a five-hour time frame. I would ask Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck to explain the time frame. Here you go.
u2015-05-30-55	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The five-hour timeframe is divided into 103 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 57 minutes for the MSZP Group, 47 minutes for the KDNP Group, 51 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 31 minutes for the LMP Group and 11 minutes for the independent Members.
u2015-05-30-56	Thank you, notary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, the first of which will be held by keynote speakers in a 20-20-minute time frame for each group of representatives. I give the floor to Mr Tamás László, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-05-30-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Thanks to the work of the government and Hungarian families, the efforts of the past years have brought their results. While Hungary was in a difficult position in 2010 compared to the Greeks, with extremely high public debt, low employment and poor competitiveness indicators, we have now managed to achieve significant results in a number of important areas. Since 2010, public debt has been declining, the government deficit has been reduced to below 3 per cent, and nearly 450,000 people have a job compared to the 2010 government change. Thanks to the government's work and successful fiscal policy, Hungary has been excluded from the excessive deficit procedure since 2004. Moreover, the government's efforts are now recognised by the European Commission and international organisations, as they are forecasting a budget deficit and balanced economic growth of less than 3 per cent for both this year and 2016. At the same time, it should also be said that further steps must be taken to help Hungarian families in a number of areas. Accordingly, 2016 will be a year of steps towards tax reductions and full employment. This is also aimed at changes in tax laws. Changes to the tax system launched in 2010 will continue next year with the development of a competitive tax environment for family tax systems and small and medium-sized enterprises as the main pillars of the tax system in 2016. The principle that the government seeks to reduce taxes on labour for economic growth remains unchanged. Ladies and gentlemen, One of the most important elements of the tax package is therefore the further expansion of the family tax system. This is aimed at strengthening and supporting families and facilitating childbearing. Thanks to the transformation of the tax system, in 2014 there was more than HUF 230 billion more income than some 900 thousand Hungarian families. In addition, from last year the tax benefit was deducted from the social security contribution, thus making it easier to make a living of nearly 270 thousand families, which meant a net income increase of HUF 16,000 for three parents who earned a minimum wage. The 2016 tax package will continue and extend this work in order to keep as much of the earned income as possible with the Hungarian families. Accordingly, family benefits for families with two children are doubled from 2016 to four years. The combined tax base reduction rate increases year after year with the monthly tax on families increasing from HUF 10 thousand per child to HUF 20,000 per year in 2019, i.e. by HUF 2500 per child per year. The reduction of personal income tax is also a first step towards further tax reductions. The bill reduces personal income tax rates from 16 to 15 percent. In this context, the amount deducted from the tax base as a result of the family benefit and the first married person's benefit will be valorised in order not to change the rate of the benefit expressed in tax. This personal income tax reduction is the beginning of a process. If the economy is doing better in the coming days, then the government is aiming for a single-digit personal income tax. Our goal is to keep the income earned as much as possible with the families. The tax changes listed above are a discount of almost 115 thousand forints per year for an average household with two children. In addition, this will have a very significant fuelling effect, so tax changes are also economic invigorating. On the other hand, the MSZP turned its back on families during its governance, always with families raising children pulling the short straw, povertying them and indebting them. [[Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: You're lying!]] At the time, the current double was personal income tax. I repeat, double the personal income tax. [[Dr. István Józsa: For the millionaires.]] The family tax relief for one and two children was taken away and preferential housing loans were abolished. Several opposition parties today would tax families before the extra-profit sectors. In contrast, Fidesz strives to keep more money in the register of families. Next year, we will spend almost 40 percent more on family support than in 2010, which means an overall surplus of about HUF 1000 billion for families. [[11.40]] Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of the results of earlier measures, government programmes to stimulate employment will continue to encourage employers to create jobs through tax incentives. The employment protection programme has already enabled nearly 900 000 people to be employed and has reduced employers' burdens by over 200 billion since its departure. As a result of the measures taken in recent years, we have also taken significant steps towards achieving full employment. In the last 14 months, the number of people employed has already been over 4 million, and the number of unemployed has steadily fallen to below 400 thousand. Almost all age groups, including those under 25, have increased employment in Hungary. The total number of employees, based on data from January to March, was 4 million and 117 thousand. That means 79 thousand more people have jobs than they did a year ago. In the competitive sector, the number of employees increased by 60,000 in the first quarter, which also indicates that this sector contributes to employment growth. Moreover, this good performance is largely due to the performance of the manufacturing industry, and in particular the expansion of vehicle production has a significant role to play in increasing employment. The unemployment rate decreased by 0.5 per cent compared to a year earlier, so today it stands at 7.8 per cent, which means that there are 17 thousand fewer people, that is, 348 thousand people out of a job. In terms of employment, Fidesz primarily sought to change the trend in the country between 2002 and 2010 when it was a socialist government. During that period, the number of unemployed doubled and some a quarter of a million people lost their jobs. In economic terms, we want to achieve full employment, that is to say we want to reduce the unemployment rate to around 3 per cent. In the case of Hungary, this means that about 150 to 200 thousand people can be talked about full employment with continuous job seekers. In the next year's budget, we will provide a number of resources aimed at increasing employment. In 2016, the National Employment Fund can manage more than HUF 484 billion, which is HUF 57 billion more than this year. The source of the Start Work Programme will be HUF 340 billion, an increase of HUF 70 billion in the next period. Employment and training grants will also increase by HUF 2.1 billion, which means that next year they will be able to spend HUF 16 billion on these goals, adding that the amount of support for people with disabilities will increase significantly by HUF 5 billion. Today, there are 80,000 people in the country with changed working skills, but Fidesz is determined to continue to increase this number. Only XV. In the district of which I am a representative, a month ago the work-test programme started, they intend to provide work for people with between 50 and 100 disabilities. In the next year's budget, we would like to increase the money for this, with HUF 340 billion, so that they could increase their number to 240 thousand. The government is trying to gradually find their way back to the labour market. We think it is particularly important that some HUF 12 000 billion of support from the European Union should be allocated to small and medium-sized enterprises to a large extent, by 60%, in order to increase job creation significantly in Hungary. This programme should be an absolute priority, which requires a national unity. The measures of the employment protection programme clearly improve the competitiveness of Hungarian companies, while specifically promoting the employment of disadvantaged groups of workers. Ladies and gentlemen, The economic policy of Fidesz remains the same in that all economic operators must take their part in the burden-sharing. Accordingly, sectoral special taxes remain part of the Hungarian tax system. In recent years we have shifted the focus of the tax system from taxes on income to taxes on consumption, type of traffic and special tax, environmental protection and health protection. The objective of the tax system is to enable as many people as possible to work in Hungary and to devote as much of the income they earn to their children. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-30-58	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Sándor Burány, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group, is coming to a speech. I give you the floor.
u2015-05-30-59	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, In the view of the MSZP, this tax system, which you introduced five years ago, has been maintained ever since, and are now proposing only a small correction, is socially unfair, and is more resuscitating than driving in terms of economic growth. From a social point of view, it is unfair because you have benefited primarily from the introduction of single-key personal income tax to those who earn the most in the country and have hit those who earn the worst in this country. You started the administration by giving employees who did not have to pay personal income tax before, because socialist government gave them this opportunity, instead of the previous zero-percent personal income tax rate, they hit them with a 16 per cent personal income tax rate. Quite simply, 80 percent of workers have either increased their taxes or at best been left at the level. Twenty percent of workers, the most earning 20 percent, have had their taxes substantially reduced, that's true. But it's not fair on a social level. It is not fair for you to increase taxes on those who earn minimum wage and reduce taxes on those who earn more than one million forints a month or more. This is the most important feature of your personal income tax policy. This tax policy is responsible, ladies and gentlemen, for the increase in so-called income poverty under your governance in Hungary. This means that since the net minimum wage is less than the amount of the officially existing social minimum, those who earn minimum wage in the country are officially poor, primarily because you tax these incomes by 16% instead of zero per cent personal income tax. Now they generously propose that this be reduced by 1 percentage point, and that only 15% be paid after 16. The error of this proposal is exactly the same as that of all your proposals, and the result of this tax reduction will be that 20 per cent of taxpayers who earn the most will be happy when they see the net salary, and 80 per cent of the worst earner will either not experience this reduction or to a minimal extent. Thus, to a considerable extent, this decrease will not be evident to the workers. A simple example can easily show this. If someone makes 100 thousand forints a month - a little less than the minimum wage - then in his case your generous offer will increase his salary by a thousand forints, if someone, say, considered 2 million forints as a ceiling in the public sector - and more state leaders reach this ceiling - takes home every month, more precisely, that is his gross earnings, and in his case, 20 thousand forints more in the pocket. 20,000 HUF tax breaks for those who earn 2 million a month, a thousand HUF tax breaks for those who earn less than the Hungarian minimum wage, that is what we consider to be socially deeply unfair. [[11.50]] We therefore tabled amendments yesterday, amendments that eliminate this injustice. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: That's tough!]] We did this yesterday because, oddly enough, most of you said that the general debate on tax laws had not yet begun, and the amendments tabled to it had to be tabled one day earlier, contrary to the general practice, according to which this would be possible until the end of the general debate. It's okay, we did it. This proposal, submitted by the Socialist Group to the tax laws, proposes a multi-key personal income tax table. In our view, this tax bill should look like it contains tax rates of 5, 10 and 15 percent; those whose annual salary I am talking about - annual salary, not monthly salary, as in the case of György Matolcsy - do not reach HUF 2 million, would have a personal income tax rate of 5 per cent. For this reason, in their case, we are making one of the earlier promises of Fidesz, and a few years ago Mihály Varga himself said that he wanted to make the personal income tax key a single digit in the foreseeable future. This promise has been forgotten since then, and we will bring this promise back here in its socially just form: we will primarily reduce tax rates for those who earn the least in this country. Otherwise, this proposal, in addition to being socially fair, also promotes more economic growth [[Dr. István Józsa: Invigorating consumption.]] As your tax system, because this will lead to a boost in consumption. We all know the sad fact that the less a family earns, the more they must pay attention to the coming of the end of the snow, because they cannot afford the most necessary purchases in a given month. These families have a number of delayed consumptions, and they hope that someday a better salary will come from which these delayed purchases of consumer goods - clothing, technical articles - can be purchased. It is quite clear that every tax benefit that gives workers in this sadly low-income family sector will generate purchases, and this will boost domestic consumption, especially in services, will increase the revenues of small businesses working in trade, if you accept our motion. Therefore, the MSZP proposal, contrary to your tax practices, is not only socially fair, but also supports economic growth more than your tax system in order to stimulate internal consumption. However, the MSZP fraction did not only consider it important to change the tax rates, but also on the issue of family tax incentives - contrary to your position - it is of the opinion that all children should receive the same tax relief from the Hungarian State. It is not okay that the more people earn, the more tax or contribution benefits they receive from the Hungarian state. We believe that all children should receive the same discount from the Hungarian state. Therefore, we extend the child benefit generally and not only to extend it, but also to provide in the proposed amendment the possibility that if this could no longer be described from the taxes paid, and even from the taxes and contributions paid together, the tax authority should reimburse the employee concerned. This is also called a negative tax among international tax concepts. By doing so, we ensure that workers with three children who earn minimum wage are also able to receive the full benefit of the child that the workers with the highest income would receive in the same situation. This is the real family support policy, and it's not what you're doing, and you're only supporting the best-looking families to this extent, and they're telling the rest of us that we're sorry we can't afford your tax benefits because they didn't earn that much. We also want to remedy this injustice. The third element is to reduce the VAT on basic foods to 5% of our package of proposals. This has also been the case in our previous proposal, and the MSZP is not the only faction that has proposed this in this House, let us add it for the sake of the truth, but we consistently insist on this proposal, and we believe that it is justified not only in the case of pigmeat. By the way, Secretary of State, you are wrong to know that the most important food for poor families is not primarily pork, but rather chicken tails. For some reason, pork is your favorite. We do not dispute this, but we believe that this helps not primarily the Hungarian families, but the pig sector. [[Dr. Répássy, Robert: What do you mean? What are you thinking?]] I'm thinking about piggies, Mr. Secretary, if you ask me that. So the main winners of this reduction to 5 percent will not be families in a modest situation, but the pig sector, which we do not dispute, so it is not a problem if you want to help the pig sector by making their products more competitive, but what we do miss is the lack of an additional package, the additional package of food that households in a modest situation like to buy. They therefore form the backbone of the amendment of the MSZP fraction. We believe that these motions are the ones that remedy the problem in substance, as opposed to your bill. Finally, when it comes to debate, let there be a real debate: in the voice of the lead speaker of Fidesz, he has, to say the least, made inaccurate remarks on some of the issues. I may have answered one of these questions now, since he said that during socialist governance, the situation of families was worse. I have just pointed out that the tax policy of the MSZP government was more supportive of families with a lower income than in your case. But then let me clarify one more lie between the walls of this House. You have said many times that the MSZP government has abolished family tax incentives, but you have not added that we have not abolished family tax incentives, but have incorporated them into the family allowance. [[Intercoms from Fidesz and KDNP. Márius Révész: Alas, Alexander!]] My colleague seems to have taken some medication. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] That's why he's always got such a need to yell, no problem. Turn around a little bit in the factsheet of the past few days, you're gonna find this. We also included tax relief in the family allowance, thus increasing the family allowance. By doing so, we have ensured exactly what our current proposal aims to ensure that every family receives that amount, not only the families who are the best looking for it, the first Orbán government has always preferred to apply the same tax policy for families, in Hungarian: it has supported the families in the best position. By incorporating this discount and thus increasing the family allowance, the MSZP ensured that all families had access to this money, not just those who made the most money. This is why, under the governance of the MSZP, the family allowance increased to several times what the Orbán government left us in 2002. Ladies and Gentlemen, Of course, if further comments are raised in the debate, we are happy to be available. One thing I'd like you to do is to make a factual statement, not to distort reality. Once again and to sum up: contrary to Fidesz's proposal, which continues to reduce the socially unfair tax system of recent years in terms of economic policy, the MSZP's proposals have proposed tax laws that promote socially just and economic growth, more specifically: amendments. Our request is that you take these proposals into consideration and at least partially comply with some of your promises; they partly comply with the promise that the key to personal income tax will be reduced to one digit and partly comply with the promise that Hungarian families will be supported in tax policy, unlike the current unjust system, that this will be done in a just system. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A long applause in the ranks of the MSZP. Dr. István Józsa: That's right!]] [[12.00]]
u2015-05-30-60	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The speaker of the KDNP Group, Mr András Aradszki, will be here. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-05-30-61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, As a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, I can say above all that the amendment of certain laws relating to taxation before us is in line with the policy of the Christian Democratic People's Party. The protection of Hungarian families, the improvement of the living conditions of Hungarian families is our priority, and through the tax system we support all solutions, all benefits that help to stop our biggest national problem, the worsening of the demographic situation, and later on to improve it. In our view, these objectives correspond to the amendment of the personal income tax law among the tax laws, which now provides tax relief for families with two children in a fixed amount per child, and will gradually increase it until 2017 and 18. With regard to a tax system, especially personal income tax, it has very complex effects on the lives of citizens, but I believe that the tax system that encourages work, which reduces taxes and contributions on work, is an important thing for everyone, for everyone who lives from work, benefits. There's that Happy II. The idea mentioned by John Paul that capital cannot be supported at the expense of work [[Interview from the benches of the MSZP: That's what we say!]] because there is no capital without work and there is no job without capital. The tax system that maintains these rates is therefore acceptable to the Christian Democratic People's Party. But as I mentioned, a personal income tax system has extremely complex effects on society as a whole. I have observed what the Socialist Party representative has to say about a fairer personal income tax system. It is good that history sometimes shows its true face to the creators of history. My point is that, in 2010, or perhaps at the end of 2009, under the leadership of Prime Minister Gordon Bajnai, I say, under the leadership of Gordon Bajnai and Prime Minister, a personal income tax proposal from the Socialist Party, which, if I remember correctly, has set up an 11 per cent single personal income tax. Eleven percent single personal income tax. [[Dr. István Józsa: Where are you from?]] And of course, all this would have been applied up to a million forints a month in excess of the average salary. There would have been a 10% extra tax above that, no doubt. This, of course, would have been maintained, as opposed to Fidesz's practice and the legislation in force, with an annual limit of 7.6 million, over which pension contributions were no longer required to be paid to the citizen concerned. So the kind of advantage that for many decades the socialists have achieved for rich people is that they did not have to pay a pension contribution for an income that they otherwise earned, we have to pay for every penny. So much for justice, but these, I think, show that we have a very good tax and contribution system within the framework of not turning a personal income tax system into a means of remedying social disadvantages. Because these two have to be separated. There is a problem in the social sector, which is serious, with serious problems in Hungarian society, and we must no doubt acknowledge that. We are trying to achieve this in a fairer and fuller way, and to provide work for many more people, as little as possible in need of social assistance. They say, for example, Sweden, how good social care is there. But there, five percent of society has to pay for this good social care. Unfortunately, we have a higher rate than that, and we have to pay social security for multiples. But if we reduce the tax on work, the real value and nominal value of the income earned in work has increased steadily over the last few years, so hopefully the break-down of the poorer layers will stop and catch up with at least the lower middle class. I think that this personal income tax system can serve this goal, the expected result, because it doesn't give up on poor people's children, by the way. On a KDNP motion, in respect of families where personal income tax benefits cannot be fully used due to earnings, the government first accepted this concession for a KDNP motion, and then the Parliament also accepted this concession, so that this benefit can also be used for health insurance and pension contributions. All in all, I can therefore say that we can agree with the amendments, taking into account the aspects of justice. It is because justice must not only be directed towards individuals, but also towards natural persons, but also as part of our policy to tax those semi-monopolistic, but also special income-making activities, banks which have a beneficial income-making activity for society, instead of putting people under pressure. There has been great indignation after 2010, but it has been seen that this type of taxation has become accepted and recognised through the EU system. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: What is the reason for this?]] This raises a debate as to whether or not this economic policy was unorthodox. I think it was nothing more unorthodox than the Cypriots when they cut bank deposits when the Romanians cut salaries and pensions by 20-25 percent. The unorthodox policy that releases the government debt above 80%, which releases inflation above 8-10 percent, which releases the general government deficit above 7-8 percent. This, please, is unorthodox economic policy; while which gives these frameworks a deficit of less than 3 per cent, declining public debt, low inflation, this is, of course, a normal, economic and economic policy. In that way, it follows who has implemented unorthodox economic policies in the country. The answer is not surprising; I can't say Jobbik, I can't say LMP, because they weren't on the government. Who was on the wheel before? Of course, the Hungarian Socialist Party and the government of SZDSZ have implemented the unorthodox economic policy that has bankrupted Hungary for eight years. [[12.10]] But back to the banks: it was not possible to say that, please, it was a good world, and we made good money through foreign exchange loans, and then when there was trouble, we would not be in solidarity with the society from which we received the income, so we thought that the banks would be taxed fairly and fairly. And what is positive now in this bill is that we are trying to reduce this tax, because the economy is already in such a state of economic policy since 2010 that we can do so, and hopefully this will ensure that economic growth is strengthened by lending, lending by banks, and it is very important that the base is based on 2014 data and results. It can be said that we have such a promise, we have agreed with the EBRD, of course, we keep the promises compared to the possibilities - the Hungarian Government and the Parliament with a majority of Fidesz-KNDP - they keep their promises. I might have a slight comment to the representative of the government: it would be good to come up with a mechanism linking the application of a more favourable, lower bank tax to an increase in credit placements. I suppose the wallet is thinking about it and finding a solution, and I hope there is such a solution already. Overall, companies also benefit from the corporate tax adjustment that, if the profit before tax is higher than the profit before tax in the previous year, the difference does not have to be paid or paid only on a deferred basis. This means, with all due respect, that if an economic investment starts, it has a result in the course of economic activity, so it has a positive result on the result of the company, not to become tax immediately, but to give that entity another opportunity of muscleization and market stability, and so the kind of economic growth that has established the growth of the corporate tax base is not just one or two years, but can be calculated in the long term, and, if the market changes, the resulting advantage can be used by that entity to strengthen market stability. On this basis, I can say that the budget for the tax reduction and the budget for the support of families are well served by this tax-related legislative amendment proposal before us, as I mentioned at the outset, it also serves the family policy of the Christian Democratic People's Party, the potential of supporting families, and I can therefore recommend the bill to my fellow Members for adoption. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-30-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2015-05-30-63	Mr President, Dear House, In front of us lies a package of paper, perhaps best marked by a paper of my own. [[He's showing me a document.]] There are 40 tax types, 40 new tax types, or something that has been raised since the entry into force of the second Orbán government. These include online gambling tax to real estate speculation tax and other shampoo taxes that are not affecting me. [[Defiance.]] , but also those with regard to cafetheria that are seriously concerned about. However, this list proves that talking about an environment where Hungarian society is not taxed and the Hungarian economy is not taxed too much, it is quite simply irresponsible and it does not stand the test of truth. We can say that this includes the congestion charge that will be introduced here from 2016 in principle, so we are seeing a vision of a longer timeline that the Orbán government does not plan to deliver the results of the seven austerity packages of the previous eight years of socialist economic deep flight. At the same time, we see that, while the bank tax reduction is being campaigned, a very long campaign has also been carried out in connection with the transaction tax, whereby you involve the banks in the burden-sharing, are accounted for, but the reality is that, in the case of the transaction levy, the financial institutions concerned have admitted that this levy has been baptised, otherwise the tax type has been passed on to the general public in its entirety, and in the case of small business operators, when they received a letter from small business operators which, in spite of shaking its head, has been acknowledged in their communications, has been recognised by the banks as a result of the fact that, in the case of small business operators, from January to April, an increase in charges has occurred in an official letter, where, in the bank justification, it has been described that additional amounts have been collected from Hungarian entrepreneurs going back to the relevant reference year. What did the government do next? Nothing, that's all. There was no impact on the fact that both the transaction fee as a whole and the very large majority of the so-called banking sector special tax were passed on to Hungarian people, incorporated into various fees and types of services. So you can talk on your own about having banks accounted for, getting them involved in public burdens, but, once again, this doesn't stand the test of reality. Otherwise, the package before us has absolutely positive elements, so don't make it look like we're going to criticize everything here, and we're rejecting everything from guts just because the government submitted them, that's not what we're talking about; otherwise we're talking about a package that only increases taxes at first sight for one item, in the case of others, or leaves the former state in place or makes concessions. This is the only item increasing the health service contribution from HUF 6930 per month to HUF 7050, which is essentially an inflation follow-up intervention. It would be worth discussing here that if, in other respects, in other debates, you are campaigning that we are essentially around zero inflation, then let us look at what inflation you are talking about. Generally speaking, the average increase in the price of the tractor is compared to the average increase in the price of bread and milk, bringing out a statistical average, but it is not certain at all that Hungarian citizens who often do not buy the tractor, let's say the lower middle class, are particularly affected by the core inflation you have defined. It would be more worthwhile to talk about inflation in a basic consumer basket, about what affects ordinary people in their daily lives shopping in the grocery store, and not necessarily the top 20 percent that this government always enjoys. If we should summarize very briefly the difference between us in terms of attitude and world vision, then the fact that you have tried to give a top 10 percent and a top 20 percent in the last five years is to give a huge discount, perhaps hoping to create a new middle class of civilization, which will boost the economy by moving internal consumption, by active participation in the internal market, and this pull-and-sucking force will also give other social groups something and suck it all up. The fact is, this has been a spectacular failure. Jobbik's strategy for life is quite different: we would rather focus on stopping the downfall from the middle class, so that the working, productive, active people who carry this country on their backs should not suffer this. In other cases, this 40 unwarranted burden, of which we can say, perhaps 10-15, that the Hungarian economy is indisputably in need, cannot be justified at all. I am very pleased that the monthly tax relief per child can increase from HUF 10 000 to HUF 12 500 per child; this is a very good thing; the question arises as to why this discount comes in stepwise, why not immediately, because the budget would be sufficient resources, sufficient reserve to finally change Hungary's disastrous demographic situation by giving even more highlighted and possible benefits to the children. However, we do not see any trace of this. You see, this is where the food chain monitoring fee has come in, for example, but we also find that foreign companies can arrange their business network with a clever, tricky portfolio arrangement in such a way that they can essentially avoid the payment of this type of tax that would be fair, which would point to public burdens. So what we see is that there is room for trickery here too, and the Government of Hungary is not interfering with the weight it should. We also see that we continue to have 27 percent VAT on the EU record. [[12.20]] And when they tell us that they don't want to tax incomes, they want to charge consumption, so it's exactly the case that 27 percent VAT, as a tax on the poor, hits exactly the hardest social groups in the toughest position, but also the hotbed of corruption and the black economy. It is not uncommon at all in fair-functioning national economies that - whether it be corporate tax or other types of tax - a tax reduction, i.e. an adjustment to a fair level, will result in an increase in tax revenue as a whole by the whitening of the economy. And in almost all cases, it can be predicted that this is guaranteed to happen within two or three business years, that the apparent expenditure and budget expenditure will first be recovered, and then, after the whitening of the economy, the country will receive interest, and this step will increase. At the same time, we also see that, according to previous statistics, after the 27 percent of the so-called GDP was 9,4 percent in Hungary, which is almost 2 percentage points higher than the average of the European Union, which I have not yet respected, but which is still taking into account our membership. So what we see is that we are also facing a record load at European level, which is demonstrable statistically, and, yes, when we talk about the seemingly relief of burdens in the lives of Hungarian people, for example, the reduction of the bank tax, they add that you yourself, thanks to the agreement with the EBRD. Well, let's look at what's in the agreement with the EBRD, not according to the official translation, because you didn't advertise it to death, but in the passages that anyone can access in English on the Internet. For example, the government refrains from laws and measures that could have a negative impact on the profitability of the banking sector. This is very much in line with the pact that you made at the beginning of the year, perhaps in February with the Hungarian Banking Association, and which would otherwise have an eligible purpose for extended lending from 2016. These banks do not lend the Hungarian economy at a fair level, so let us now say that at least 20 years ago and for a long time there has been a pump in Hungary, which you and the socialists have contributed to. But we must say that if you sign such pacts, for example, you will exclude the possibility of bringing new laws or new rescue packages to the benefit of foreign exchange credit victims. Technically, it is also included in this agreement with the EBRD that the government does not make new laws and regulations without the support of the Hungarian Banking Association. It is not just a preliminary consultation, please, it is about the support of the Hungarian Banking Association. It's about this organization giving its blessing to your laws. How are you going to account for the banks involved, the banking system concerned? Or maybe it's just that they don't want to? Is it possible that the bank tax will be reduced so that these banks can finally lend their loans for letting them into the Hungarian economy 20 years ago? How is that, please? And we can also say that, yes, the difference in spirit courage between us is perfectly characterised by the fact that you are making a minimal reduction in the VAT on pig meat, right, and only in part, because the pig's VAT has been touched differently before, they say that it causes a budget deficit of 20-25 billion. This is also true, as VAT cuts are going back into the budget, and the model should include, let's say, the losses of poultry farmers, which are now caused by the fact that Jobbik, not Jobbik - and let's add it for the sake of fairness - but other opposition forces suggest that they do not completely reduce the VAT on basic foods to 5%, but select campaign-like, campaignable one item from all of these. And then, I tell you, they do indirect damage elsewhere. But this budget does contain enough reserves to reduce not only the VAT of all basic foods to 5%, but also the VAT of children's education articles, in line with Jobbik's programme, again responding to Hungary's greatest problem of catastrophic population loss, which is also a consequence, let us not discuss this. But every economic decision should be subject to this, so that this situation can be resolved somehow. When I say that the budget should have reserves, I say this for a reason. On the basis of the budget, this year's tax revenue is called GDP - I do not like this indicator, but the statistics usually work with it - 38.4 percent. And if we consider the same ratio to be constant, assuming the same tax burden and economic structure for 2016 as well, then the State would have an income of 13 417 billion, thanks to economic growth. You've been campaigning with this: GDP growth data, the resulting liberation or the resulting billions. That -- once again, I'm leading your calculation, not my own -- would be a nominal extra $646.5 billion compared to this year. So against the announced three hundred seventy-something billion-dollar relaxing package that you distribute and reduce pork VAT and make more, there would still be an additional $268 billion margin, from which it would be entirely feasible to reduce basic food and even the VAT on child-rearing articles. So according to you, there is a reserve in this budget, and according to our own statement, there are a lot more, because Jobbik's experts have found hundreds of billions more; items that are either spent on completely unnecessary things, or used or used for unbelievably bad purposes. And the answer must also be that if you campaign to reduce personal income tax, you will tell us that from 16 to 1 percent discount, you will actually leave 120 billion forints in people's pockets. I need you to explain one thing to me: how is it that if we look at the budget, then the draft of all revenue from personal income tax will now be 1640 billion for this year, and 1658 billion for next year after the reduction? I understand that you think that there will be an increase in the number of contributors, but there is no more serious basis for this, so you cannot argue with this argument among serious people, because according to professional calculations, during your five-year governance, only 40-50 thousand jobs were properly declared and normally paid in the competitive sphere were created. The slightly more optimistic calculations say that the number of new jobs in the competitive sector is between 50 and 100 thousand over five years. Even if we accept this more optimistic scenario, thus excluding public workers from this calculation, even in the more optimistic scenario, there is no basis to assume an increase in the number of contributors resulting in such extra payments. It's probably about the fact that while they're campaigning for a 1 percent cut, they've kept their income expectations, so the numbers don't support what you're campaigning on your billboards again and for many times. I have to add one more figure: last year, more than 200 billion more than expected compared to their VAT expectations, and we have to note here that the tax is huge. Thus, the difference between the VAT payments expected from economic data and the actual VAT payments is of the order of 1000 billion. Some professional estimates put it at 900-1000 billion, others at 1,200 billion. So 1,000 billion is not excessive at all. This reduction should be an absolutely national strategic task, but it is not reflected in any of their actions, it is not visible and we do not know where it is. We can talk about another item that is not directly included in the budget, but I must return to the situation of those who have suffered foreign exchange credit for one thought. Here the so-called settlement and your market-based forints and other interventions resulted in hundreds of billions of dollars in profits at and around the Hungarian National Bank. I'm not saying that the budget is draining this revenue, but I'm saying that this huge profit should actually be translated into settling the situation of those who have suffered foreign exchange credit, whether I'm telling you now, creating a compensation fund, helping people who have already lost their place of residence, breaking up their families, evicting them from their homes. On the other hand, what do we see? Government behavior is very different. He wants to create the wrong bank, presumably creating a legal background for mass management of real estate with a public background, and often accepting conditions to allow this property mass to be transferred to the private sector after a while, obviously for revenue. So it can be assumed that Hungarian people will launch their homes - often unduly - on a massive scale, to which no decent Member of Parliament can give his name. In conclusion, you are campaigning for tax cuts. However, this is not reflected in the figures or in the budget. [[12.30]] I would like to point out something else: in addition to the expectations of VAT revenue, if we calculate how much of the so-called consumption-type taxes the government expects, we can see that while campaigning with a tax reduction, it expects HUF 215 billion more from consumption-type taxes and VAT at the level of income expectations than it did a year earlier. So, if we add that your personal income tax expectations are higher than they were a year ago, so you want to collect more next year than you have collected for all types of taxes, even if we assume that there is a minimum increase in the number of contributors and taxpayers, we can say that there are no systemic tax reductions. What we are talking about here, please, is that you are campaigning with a sub-area allowance, but at systemic level you are neither changing nor changing the fact that the Hungarian economy is one of the hardest taxed across Europe, and according to the OECD survey, the average domestic wages are hit by the fourth most tax burden for all the countries concerned and the countries under investigation. In fact, 1 out of 2 of our requested forints is immediately taken away by the state to provide a healthcare service for it, such as the kind of social support and services that you can talk to protesters about, what quality you are capable of in this respect, and give them 40 new tax types or 40 tax-raise types. Here's the list in our hands. This list is very talkative. And if you wish to create a tax system, a budget that is indeed the toughest problem that Mr Aradsk has rightly recognised, the loss of population would first slow down, then stop it, and eventually turn it into growth, then I offer you a very pleasant literature. They won't sleep well, I don't sleep well when I reread it every season. Gyula Fekete: My blood, Hungarian cannibals! It is about his book. It didn't just appear in the care of Püski Publishing, it was found a long time ago in 1992. The F-factor, the future factor, the lead-down of the future factor that must be financed, which must be returned to the families so that their investments for the future can be supported by budgetary resources and tax forints, as we see today that having children is actually a luxury item, a taxed article, with expenditure that the state could play a very serious role in mitigating. On the other hand, what did we hear in the budget debate in a typical way? Compliance with deficit targets, an increase in GDP, which in itself means nothing in terms of the quality of life of Hungarian people. However, we have heard very little about how more Hungarian children could be born and how to improve the number of living births better than the statistical margin of error. However, if I add that, unfortunately, in recent times, the number of deaths has increased much more dramatically than the number of births has increased, we can add that we are in very big trouble. Each fiscal decision and every tax policy decision should be subject to the provisions of this text, and should be subject to the birth of the desired children in Hungary, and, at least as important as this, their families should not be driven away from this country by any economic pressure, because if we do not comply with this request of history, if we do not hear this request of history and we do not fulfil this task, then it does not matter what colorful government Hungary will have in 50 years. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-05-30-64	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Speech by Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet, lead speaker of the LMP Group. You have the floor.
u2015-05-30-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The tax package before us could be positive, since it contains few paragraphs, changes in few places. This could also indicate that we have finally come to a predictable economic policy. The problem is that, overall, he's going in the wrong direction in a predictable way. It continues to pump incomes from the poor to the rich, thereby strengthening the country's income policy that is breaking up. First of all, I would like to talk about the reduction of the single-key soy from 16 percent to 15 percent. If we say it many times, then perhaps someday our pro-government colleagues will hear the consequences of this. In yesterday's speech Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said that the single-key sajja is the basis of the system and it is impossible to change it. We agree that this is the basis of their system, but we find it inevitable to change, because the policy that constantly pumps incomes from the poor to the rich is simply not sustainable. LMP started to whip the 1 percent personal income tax rate when you introduced it in 2010. It was already possible to see that this 1 percent income tax rate leaves 500 billion more than earners and burdened low income earners with 130 billion. You're saying that a 1% cut in sjaja leaves 120 billion in people. But that's the average. You do not talk about how this 120 billion will be distributed between the poor and those with higher incomes. It has been said several times in the debate over the last few days and today that this 1 percent reduction leaves a large amount of money for those with high incomes, 10 thousand forints for those who earn 1 million forints per month, and as long as someone earns less, this means a thousand forints per month for a 100 thousand HUF income. So you can see the differences here, too. When we talk about this difference, it is worth looking at international processes and putting this issue in an international context. It is no coincidence that more and more economists today say that the fragmentation of societies, so that fewer and fewer people are skimming off the benefits of economic growth and getting poorer, is an obstacle to development at all. Think of what this ravaged, exploited labor can do. He's not capable of creativity. So it is certain that this needs to be changed, and so not only Hungary and not just the world... - so it is essential everywhere to dig this gap in order to narrow the gap between the rich and the people who are becoming more and more poor. This is a big challenge, and obviously one of the keys to this is the restoration of multi-key personal income tax. But it is also certain that much deeper, more thorough consideration must be given to the taxation of wealth taxes, the taxation of capital incomes. If we do not change that, then the country will certainly not take the path of ascension. According to LMP, progressive income tax should therefore be recovered. We have also tabled an appropriate motion for this. This would also reduce contributions by 6.5 percent, i.e. the employee contribution burden would remain 12 percent. It would be zero per cent up to the minimum wage, 12 per cent up to the average wage, and 24 per cent over the average wage. This would create tax-free income for everyone up to the minimum level of living; and not only for those who earn minimum wages, we stress this, because the point of progressive personal income tax is that only income above the limit is taxed with a higher tax rate, i.e. the net income is increasing for everyone. With the average wage, this increase is HUF 38,000 per month, which is reduced higher due to the higher entry key, but it is still felt for a long time. This would also increase the burden of capital incomes such as dividends, which is in line with the principle of bringing taxation of capital incomes and labour incomes closer together. The other issue, which has also been discussed several times today, is the reduction of the VAT on pigmeat to 5%. We don't think that's enough. In fact, we think that some large entrepreneurs, not too far from the government, are helping to maintain their slaughterhouse and plant, and perhaps the market is whitening something, but not too much. In addition to the average consumption of 2.5 kg, for one person, this means saving between 500 and 700 forints per month. So reducing VAT to 5 percent means saving between 500 and 700 forints per month. However, the rich, who consume more and more meat, will win again, of course, provided that the VAT reduction applies to consumer prices, which we are not sure at all. LMP has also long argued that it is harmful to tax such a level of basic food. The tax on basic foods must be kept low. In other countries, this has long been recognized. [[12.40]] The Hungarian government may not like this idea, i.e. extending the reduction to basic food in general, because cheaper basic food does not benefit the rich, because the consumption of food is limited, the proportion of income increases in the consumer basket is reduced. The LMP also submitted an amendment in this respect, which would mean a reduction in VAT on vegetables, fruit, cereals and dairy products, freshwater fish and certain meat products. And if we are talking about VAT cuts, we are also proposing that the VAT on public transport should be reduced from 27 per cent to 5 per cent. This would help simple workers, commuters, help with location, eliminate territorial constraints. Just yesterday Minister János Lázár complained that public transport is too expensive. From this he concluded that the burden of driving should be reduced. Our conclusion goes against the fact that we need to make environmentally and socially more efficient public transport more accessible both in price and in service. It is an interesting measure to create an exemption from trade tax for general practitioners. It is important to support the organisation of health pay, so that the many empty GP practices are more attractive. At the same time, this measure puts a burden on municipalities once again and does not help where it should be. Poor municipalities will not be able to give a discount, in part, because they need every penny, in part, because they have already reduced the level of business tax to so low. Nor should the introduction of a so-called growth tax loan from the package be supported. This measure would give fast-growing companies the benefit of not having to pay their income tax in a given year, but being able to do so later, deferred. It is quite incomprehensible to us why this is necessary, for a fast growing SME the resources it can invest in are rapidly expanding anyway. In addition, we know what companies are growing the fastest: the kings of public tenders, István Tiborcz and Lőrinc Mészáros - it is really unnecessary to give them additional discounts. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik. It's a rare applause from the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2015-05-30-66	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Since no one has applied for a speech by independent representatives, two-minute speeches will now take place. I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP Group.
u2015-05-30-67	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, In the spirit of radical tax cuts, I do not want to bid, but more than 40 new taxes have been introduced in recent years. In addition, they will burn down all the existing disadvantages of the Hungarian tax system, which have been built over the last five years, with a high tax burden, all the administrative burdens and everything else. Where is Europe's most competitive tax system that has been proclaimed? Not to say that I am criticizing you: I think it is good that when we talk about reducing pig VAT, we will decide, but it is far from sufficient, it is late in time, on the one hand, and on the other, it is not enough. At a time when more than HUF 200 billion, HUF 215 billion surplus is to be collected in terms of consumption tax, the order of HUF 20 billion is one tenth of the planned surplus collected in the budget. If we are talking about a 1 percent reduction in personal income tax, it should also be said that it affects three quarters of the estimated HUF 120 billion, HUF 90 billion, and the top 20 percent of the income levels in the vast majority. They take three quarters of this money, and four times as many people receive one third of these funds. Tamás László's comment comes to mind at the end, when he talks about employment and wages, I tell him to you: a million new jobs in the economy and, in terms of wages, one where people living at low income levels benefit from a story and are not indemnified. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-05-30-68	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member of the Jobbik Group, applied for a two-minute speech. I give you the floor.
u2015-05-30-69	Mr President, Dear House, In response to my fellow Member, I must say that, yes, there are about 50 types of tax increases and a new tax type in the accounting profession. We have chosen the forty of these that we believe could be touched, either in terms of reduction or total abolition, because, as I said, we consider a ten or fifteen to be justified by market considerations, but no more than fifty types of tax! So the economy seems a little overtaxed in this regard. If we look at the report on the OECD Member States that I have already quoted, which specifically examines the average wage burden, then we see that 36 per cent of OECD states average the average wage burden. This implies an increase of 0.1 percentage points over the last one-year period, so there are quite minimal variations in the indicator. In Hungary, the same indicator, which is a 36 percent average in OECD countries, amounts to 48 percent. So it's dramatically higher than the average mentioned. It can be said that in Belgium this is 55 percent; in Austria we are talking 49.4 percent; in Germany we are talking 49.3 percent; our country follows the line by 48 percent. This implies a horrific, brutal withdrawal. And they're putting it all on an economy that operates in a very different way along geographical and regional conditions. To give an example: the healthy years that a man or a Hungarian person can expect and can expect are marked by a huge standard deviation, since there is a 8.5 year difference, say, in terms of a man from West Hungary and in terms of the years expected to have spent in health in a northern lowland region. So we can say that even these different features are not taken into account either by your tax system or by your tax policy, but overall, the level of burden is so horrific that it is simply not justified from a professional and ethical point of view. Thank you.
u2015-05-30-70	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by Members. In the first of these, I give the floor to the Members who have been notified in writing. A speech will be made by Mr Dénes Galambos, Fidesz Group.
u2015-05-30-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, With regard to tax laws, let me say a few words about the provisions on gambling law, pig capital VAT and bank tax. And here I would like to refer to the fact that my speech will also affect what Gábor Orbán Secretary of State has said. I would also like to clarify a few details of the aspect that we see with the eyes of our representatives and what we have spoken about in the Economic Committee. According to the Fundamental Law, Hungary provides conditions for fair economic competition. This constitutional principle has been represented throughout the last five years, but we also consider it important that our society is based on value-based work and not on risky, profitable money. In the first round, therefore, I would like to address issues relating to gambling in relation to the bill before us. Proposal for a Regulation of the XXXIV of 1991 on the organisation of gambling It amends the law by using 3 percent of the gaming tax for casino games for game protection and charity purposes. This also includes the green number that can be called day and night and the information on community care available under the social security system. They can address gamblers in the most direct way, like the likely deterrent advertisements on a cigarette box. It also includes prevention and treatment of mental, psychological or social effects related to gambling, which may be harmful. The National Assembly amended the preamble to the Gambling Act in 2012 and set it as its objective to regulate the State's gambling monopoly and its exercise tasks, and to use part of the gambling income for public purposes. [[12.50]] Accordingly, the amendment of the law seeks to achieve this objective, avoiding the negative effects of gambling. During socialist governance - obviously there will be a reaction from my fellow Members Nándor Gúr and István Józsa - citizens could rightly feel that the state is not interested in how and where citizens spend their money. The profits, the profits at all costs, were quickly lost. An ectant example of this is the Sukoro casino dream, in which the Hungarian State is burdened with serious costs after the serious maladministration has become apparent. [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] I knew that you would like this thesis, but this is also factually true, because our winning lawsuits in both domestic and international courts prove that this was a serious, unfounded, bad decision, bearing significant costs for the country. On the other hand, since 2010, the Government has taken significant steps to achieve the objectives set out in the preamble. The most important of these came into force in 2012. Private companies can be allowed to organise online sports betting for five years, after which they will have to pay a concession fee of HUF 100 million per year per type of toy, as well as a toy tax every two weeks and a supervisory fee on a quarterly basis. This puts casino operations within a legal framework. The public gaming organizer can participate in online activities on a subject-right basis. The increased involvement of the State in this case is also intended to prevent the proliferation of illegal acts. According to the changes adopted, the companies concerned have to verify the data of the registrants, reject the applications of those under 18 years of age, and block the sites of unauthorized online organisers by the National Media and Infocommunications Authority. It was also an important measure that, despite the pressure of the major gambling lobby, gambling machines were banned at the clubs, and one-armed robbers were better known in their names. These games are very easily addictive, in many cases state aid ended up in such money-sucking games, while children really did not get food at home. This was indeed a problem in which socialist governments could have acted, but they did not. [[Attila Mesterházy: After five years, we are still here.]] They let this gambling lobby, the gambling lobby, prevail. The government's goal was not to waste money on toys with certain financial losses. He went through that goal, and he didn't go for the easier resistance. The National Tax and Customs Office shall decide on the issue of concession permits or concession rights. The licences and concession contracts shall be for a maximum of five years and shall not be limited in number. The next issue I would like to talk about - and here I will also touch on the opinions raised by the previous speakers - is the question of reducing the VAT rate for pig meat. I consider it a significant measure for improving the standard of living to have reduced the VAT rates for live and whole and half pigs from 27 per cent to 22 percentage points from 1 January 2014 to 5 per cent after a reduction. The aim of the provision was to increase the competitiveness of domestic processors, reduce the black economy, save old jobs and create new ones. The positive experience of reducing VAT at the beginning of the supply chain has already been shown over the past period, the market has been cleared as it is not worth cheating at such a low tax rate and the volume of exports has also increased. The domestic pig population also increased by 200,000 to 3.2 million, with an increase of 9 percent in the number of individual and 11 percent in the number of confederate pig keepers. We need to see that the whole pig sector has not yet been able to fully reduce VAT abuse, so there is a reason for increased rigour on the part of the tax authority. The sale of pig meat should also be subject to a reduced rate of 5% from 1 January 2016. The measure is a static loss of VAT revenue of HUF 22-25 billion per year, but this amount must remain with the citizens, not the traders, because the lower incomes prefer this species of meat. The annual consumption of pigmeat per capita is currently 25 kilograms per year, which is half of 20 years ago. Reducing the VAT on pig meat will thus also help families in need, as a significant decrease in consumer prices may occur. The most important thing here is that the Ministry of Industry will - and will - check that this decline is not absorbed by trade, and, if this is the case, it is necessary to take action against it. It is also beneficial for pig farmers, processors and consumers. The regulation is therefore in line with previous amendments, reinforcing its positive effects, filling its shortcomings, thus reducing VAT in almost all of the pig sector. It can increase the opportunities of legal actors in Hungary, while increasing their competitiveness could lead to a step advantage for foreign suppliers and those active in the black economy. With regard to the VAT on pig meat, I cannot agree with the foregoing statements made by my fellow Members because in this area it is not a question of wishing whether or not to extend VAT globally to basic foods. I am a believer of gradualness, and I believe that an analysis of the expected effects of individual product councils and of the market in this area can serve only as a basis, not as a global statement, which has been made in the debate today, to make it mandatory to raise VAT on all food, because there's a spare for that. I think that this is not a matter of numbers, it is simply an analysis and an accurate examination of how pigmeat and poultry can be managed in terms of market trends as substitute products in the next period. And I think the most important task is that basically the pig sector, which has been bleeding from a thousand wounds over the past few years, is standing on its feet, and we are encouraging businesses that bring back in rural areas the kind of production which, under the rural development programme - and I am now looking at Mr State Secretary - can be achieved by making investments that farmers can plan in the next period, increasing the appetite for pig farming, at all, and not at the level that you refer to, but also at the level of small farms. It's a definite program. I, who am also a rural representative, see that in the countryside livestock farming has fallen to a level that should no longer be allowed to continue. This is what resources are used to draw from this year and from next year. So I propose a differentiated and enhanced approach to VAT on foodstuffs. Production must be increased first, then the producer circles must be involved and then market analyses can be carried out. The banker is the third question. With regard to the bank tax, we should recall the past and the long, difficult process that lasted from the concrete exploitation of people to proportionate public burdens and the establishment of a fair banking system. Although I say this with caution, perhaps today, the events of the past few years have made the banks' attitude different than it was eight to ten years ago. It should be borne in mind that in 2008, the global economic crisis developed partly from irresponsible lending by banks, and thus the best way to remedy problems is to tighten them. The banks then gave each other the doorknob at the state to save them, and the state did. However, the smile was not honest in this case, because it was not understandable, or it was quite incomprehensible, why banks were falling in, when they achieved outstanding profitability in Hungary compared to Western European states, especially in the residential sector. The banks have made very good money on us for eight to ten years. In the trouble, the state helped them out, so it was perfectly natural that when the state needed help, it also involved banks in public burdens. In 2010, the Hungarian Parliament voted in favour of the bank tax, which enabled it to maintain and control the balance of the budget. The narrow margin of manoeuvre and the shortness of time also justified the introduction of such a heavy tax, as the expected 3.8 percent budget deficit meant some HUF 150-300 billion. The government then decided not to launch an unprecedented austerity package, but to tax banks. The success of the measure is demonstrated by the fact that a number of neighbouring countries have also introduced this provision. In the meantime, the Hungarian economy has been so strengthened, in line with the right economic policy decisions, that it has been possible to reduce the level of bank tax. The rate of the bank tax varies according to the Memorandum of Understanding of 9 February 2015 between the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Government of Hungary. I would not degrade the significance of this, nor would I think that this would constitute a binding directive for Hungary. The agreement itself is a Memorandum of Understanding, but it does not contain binding elements in all respects. [[13.00]] As regards credit institutions, it is proposed that the bank tax cap will be reduced from 0.53 per cent in 2016 to 0.31 per cent in 2017 and 2018 to 0.21 per cent, and then from 2019 the rate will be in line with EU standards. A further change from 2016 onwards is that credit institutions set their tax base not on the basis of the 2009 balance sheet total but on the basis of the 2014 balance sheet total. This measure caused disproportionate effects and not all banks were affected equally. The rate of the bank tax payable shall not exceed the amount of the bank tax paid for the financial year 2015. In addition, the tax liability of venture capital fund managers in relation to the special tax on distributors and investors funds will be abolished. Bearing in mind proportionate public burdens, it is legitimate to expect, after banks are free from significant burdens, that the amounts released should not be absorbed and used for bonuses or other incentives, but to reverse them in the form of lending and stimulate the economy. Furthermore, the Hungarian National Bank will do everything in its power to do so, so think about the growth loan scheme and the interest rate reduction policy, as a result of which the base rate and, as a result, the interest rates on the loan are also unprecedentedly low. This also reduces the burden on businesses and the population, giving people a little air. Dear House, Now I've only taken three steps out of the tax laws. I would ask that all of this be taken into account when making further speeches in the debate. As State Secretary Gábor Orbán said, I would like to conclude by saying that this is the shortest tax law of all time. I agree with that myself. I am going to tell Mr István Józsa and Mr Nándor Gúr that they will obviously respond to what I said, and I regret to inform you that I will not be able to wait for their answer because of my other duties. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-05-30-72	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr István Józsa, MSZP Group, will be speaking. I give you the floor.
u2015-05-30-73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am pleased to see that Congressman is still able to feel my reaction. I would like to congratulate him on the almost correct summary, and he has revealed real economic processes here, to the public of Parliament. The other issue is that the resume you have said is that the good economic policy of the last five years is different because in half a decade, we could have done nothing in the country to ensure a fair public burden, not to facilitate the disintegration of society in general, but to reduce what you have done. This is also our problem with the tax package before us, which you have shown as a merit, Mr Secretary of State, that this proposal is short, which also shows that they are really continuing the failed tax policy in our view, in which social differences are growing. You say that consumption-type taxes should be the priority. This is unfair from the point of view, because if you have a salary of HUF 100,000, the 27 percent turnover tax is a much greater burden than a person who has a salary of HUF 1 million and uses, let's say, HUF 300,000. There is no state sales tax on savings, my dear Secretary of State, if this relationship were too complicated for you. So what goes to savings is not automatically charged with any kind of consumer tax. And small-time earners spend 100% of their earnings. So they are burdened with this extremely 27 percent consumer tax to the extent that their income is used in full. That's a lot more than that, according to expert calculations. What you are saying as a sectoral special tax, there are many of them, this is also a mistake of your tax structure, that there are many, innumerable taxes, so the impact of the special taxes passed on to consumers is in our opinion and consumption tax by other experts; because the price is increasing through the tax, then, in the end, it is included in the final consumer price. If you take this into account, it's 30 percent or above. In Hungary, sales-type taxes are on average on certain products. This is an unbearably high measure. It is not by accident that experts say that sales tax is a tax on the poor, because they are relatively more burdened. On the other hand, you guys gave society a good impression of how good one-key personal income tax is for everyone. How good it is, interestingly enough, the Pareto rule, the 80/20 rule, that the best earner takes home 20 percent, he receives 80 percent of the tax relief. The first tax amendments introduced in 2010-2011 were even more so, it was 10/90, it was so distorted, because under-seekers were not yet taxed, but they received a tax credit, but you introduced a 16 percent income tax on the minimum wage. It is true that this was paid to entrepreneurs, but overall, net earnings brought home decreased. So I listened with interest, but here you are sitting in the office of State Secretary, Mr András Aradszki KDNP, Member of my own regional representative, so I took due note of your introduction. [[Dr. András Aradski intervenes.]] I'm not your voter, I didn't vote for you, but as a citizen, I'm really registered there as a voter. Happy II. János Paul was quoted by a Member who paid serious attention to the issue of poverty. On the other hand, I would also like to remind you of Pope Francis' speeches, who have already specifically drawn the world's attention to reducing social differences, and in this sense you do not follow the words of Jesus'governor, because they do not reduce income differences, they do not reduce inequality between the upper and lower layers of society, but rather increase it. You're smiling nicely, Madam Secretary, as if you don't understand what I'm saying. Pareto principle is rule 80/20. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: You know, that's why you're smiling.]] You have a very nice smile and teeth. [[Dr. András Aradski: You're a sexist.]] But they cannot compensate for this general injustice with individual discounts. [[Dr. Répássy, Robert: He smiles because he understands. Defiance.]] I can see how to put it, the line of secretary of state across the street in the truth of my deepest words. So I see some chance that in their work, one day, when we don't sit face-to-face like this, we'll be sitting in front of the desk, or maybe facing the mirror, or confessing to whoever needs it. [[Dr. Répássy, let's skip these.]] They are deepening their efforts to reduce social disparities and not to sell them when they increase social inequalities. Thus, a uniform 1 percentage point reduction in personal income tax is a tax savings of some HUF 100-120 billion. This is basically intended for you to continue to advertise that, yes, workers are given the result of the roaring of the economy; I have said that we think it is unfair in proportion. The other is that if we look at the large distribution systems that you should keep in operation, I am thinking primarily of the health system in ruins, which was announced in 2010 that health care will be saved. Well, if anyone was at the demonstration yesterday, they could see how they managed to save health care. Here they yelled at you to make a living. I'm not gonna say what else was added. And it's like they were trying to call the Prime Minister here instead of the Citizens' Platform meeting. So what I'm asking is, when you're making such a big announcement about how good this tax system is, you're also trying to cut off the social balance of your half a decade's governance. [[13.10]] What we say in the area of economic policy is a disadvantage to growth already in the medium term should also take into account the social dimension of this. I don't want to refer to Nobel Prize winner economists like Krugman or the popular Capital of the 21st century today. To refer to the author of the volume Pikety, which shows in 100-150 years of data how the proportion of incomes and capital incomes shifted, the disproportionateness of capital incomes to the benefit of capital incomes, and shows the damage to the development of a country, the development of a country's production. Hungary's main capital is the ability in human minds and people, because we have little natural resources. So if all you are trying to do to improve this is to put 80 percent of society in a worse position than they should be in through a fair tax system, in the long term, you are acting against the interests of the country, not only against its social, but also against its economic interests. So investing in human capital, investing widely, catching up widely, creating an economic opportunity would also be a good investment. I'm so sorry you're stuck along with your earlier philosophy. It would be good if these economic analyses I referred to were carried out. I think your professional apparatus is capable of that. I believe that they are able to think not only about political concepts, but also about real contexts of experience. Although they now want to encrypt these data, which prepare a budget, they should at least secretly reach a similar conclusion as we do and secretly enforce it in the tax laws, in their later operation. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-05-30-74	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr.
u2015-05-30-75	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My fellow Member, Józsa, made it quite plastically clear that he has shown quite well what it means when we reduce the tax burden on everyone, let us say, by 1 percent in terms of personal income tax reduction. Clearly, this does not help those who are in the majority as people who work in this country. It can be seen that in terms of the acquisition and access to goods, the beneficiaries are people at far higher levels of income, who are easier and easier to live their lives anyway. They are the ones who become a real profiteer and who need it, to whom it would provide tangible help, and they get a fraction of everything. It's an unfair system, but you're building it, what makes it different. The other issue is the issue of VAT banging on the European world summit, 27 percent. Twenty-seven percent, five years of government, and more than the eight years before that, at any time. 27 percent, and now they take out a HUF 20 billion item, a reduction in the VAT of the pig, while even if they made a full reduction in basic food, they would not collect less VAT than they are now counting as a surplus in the next budget. And that would help people with lower income levels, because VAT is a tax on the poor, a tax on the smaller earners. They should be thinking in this direction if they were even a little humane. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-05-30-76	Thank you, Congressman. For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Congressman Márius Révész, Fidesz Group.
u2015-05-30-77	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I have carefully followed the ideas of our socialist fellow Members, they would reduce SAYA to 5, 10, 15 percent from the current 15 percent, they said that all food should be VATed at 5 percent. [[Dr. István Józsa: For basic foods.]] My fellow Members will continue exactly where you left off in 2010. They're in exactly the same place. Dear fellow Members, There is a fundamental difference, which we consider to be important in terms of fiscal balance and the magnitude of the deficit, and we do not want to increase the burden of future generations. It is also difficult for Sándor Burány to interpret the proposal to make tax relief a quasi-subsidiary benefit, and to supplement and pay state aid to everyone who cannot use it. We want to link these subsidies, discounts, not support, to work and say that the state recognises that someone is doing useful activities in the interest of society and therefore takes less away from him. Dear fellow Member, We can't draw something that you didn't reach out to, but, by the way, talk to, say, French left-wing politicians, they know quite well, and in many places in Europe, let's say, Germany, what social, family-type taxation means, by the way. We also find it odd that the MSZP is always bitter about the sectoral special tax. They seem to prefer to tax workers. Ladies and gentlemen, The fact is that the sectoral special tax imposed quite a burden on banks, multinationals, because they did not increase their profits, so they had to take their share of the burden that we had done in order to restore the economy. Let me just give one more interesting piece of information to my fellow Members. They always say that we favor the rich, and the poor break down. OECD data appeared eight days ago. Compared to OECD 9.6 average, the average multiplier between the richest tenth and the poorest tenth is 7.2 in Hungary. So income differences, pain, but according to Eurostat data, Congressman, they have decreased and have not increased in Hungary. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Once again, they're down, so from here on out, all the comments they've made so far have been virtually pointless. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-30-78	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-05-30-79	Mr President, Dear House, The banking sector special tax is being discussed several times, and I am very pleased that there is a common understanding between us that the legislator's intention was for the banks concerned to pay for it. So, obviously, a kind of prohibition should have been introduced in order to pass this on. It can be seen that at the time of the introduction of the financial transaction levy, the prohibition which was at least raised in the case of the banking sector special tax was no longer covered by the law, so that it could not be passed on. In the case of the transaction fee, as I have already mentioned, I do not wish to repeat myself, it has been passed on several times, but in full it was to the same extent for small business operators. However, as early as 2012, the profession warned, a lot of people warned that the banking sector special tax would in the longer term be included in the charges for account management or other banking operations or would even increase the interest rate margin, the difference between loans and deposits. We have also said then that this effect will not be spectacular, but it will be a little more expensive to keep an account, or that certain free account packages or types of discounts that used to be typical may be less interest on bank deposits than it would have been without tax, or even a little, just a little bit, a few thousandths higher interest on loans. We can say that all of this has been achieved, and as far as sectoral special taxes are concerned, the pass-on could have been because the government has not even set up a primitive low-cost monitoring system, which would have examined whether the price increase in question, the price change in question, is behind real market developments or not. The operation of such a monitoring system in more successful national economies, if not part of everyday routine, but it is absolutely natural. We therefore call on you to apply this in the future, and do not be afraid to burden the banks, to involve them in public burdens, because unfortunately, the pacts with the EBRD and the Banking Alliance are pointing in the exact opposite direction, pointing in the very wrong direction. [[13.20]]
u2015-05-30-80	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We will continue with the speeches announced in writing. I give the floor to Member István Németh Szilárd, Fidesz Group. [[In the notary seat Attila Móring József will be replaced by László Földi.]]
u2015-05-30-81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, The MEPs who spoke before me did not surprise us at all, because we have known for practically decades, and it has been written since Solzhenicin that there is no lie requiring such thick skin that a communist would not say without blinking his eyes. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP. Dr. István Józsa: You mean yourself? Red Cup? The president's ringing the bell.]] If it is in the interest of the movement or the personal well-being of comrades. So that's about it for socialist speakers. However, I was surprised that the betterman and the LMP colleagues joined this lie tsunami. I'd like to talk about facts. The tax package in front of us was attacked in two parts and, if you will, Hungary's government, Hungary's tax policy, as this tax package is already the result or part of something. The last five years together are worth looking at in this respect, and we can link the budget to this. The debate on the budget took place before us, but these are fully coherent legislative packages. I think that they determine the future of Hungary. Let's look at the first attack front. [[Dr. István Józsa: Russki tank battle! Stalingrad!]] We have heard everywhere from all Members that this tax package, these rules, which we now want to enforce during the 2016 budget and the 2016 domestic life, will completely destroy the Hungarian economy. And then there were also indicators identified by the previous speakers for which improvements should be made. Let's see. It's the first time I've had it. People who have been on the steering wheel have been talking about consumption recovery and have been able to produce negative 2, minus 3 percent retail indicators for years. Since 2013, however, the retail market has been growing ever since - whether monthly or annual - with a minimum increase of 5-6 percent. So, so much for the recovery of consumption, and that tax policy, the tax package, the tax package, has an impact on the recovery of consumption. Let's look at inflation. For those with a minimum inflation rate of 5.8 per cent over the years or an inflation rate of over 6 per cent, they are now pouting about 1.5 per cent inflation. There were months, there were stages when the price increase was a deflation indicator, because I think the last one was a minus 0.3 percent indicator. Or employment figures: 3.6 million people worked in 2010, when Hungary decided to end the eight years it had to live in. Today, almost 4.2 million people are working, and all 4.2 million people can be proud to contribute their taxes to making this country a better career, while until 2010, only 1.8 million out of 3.6 million were taxed in this country. The number of children was also mentioned in this item, although I think it should have been in the families, but speaking of the birth of children, I agree with much of what Dániel Z. Karpát said, and I also read the books of Professor Gyula Fekete. We are trying to get the country out of this situation, this fatherhood that has been going on for decades, and the indicators are encouraging us to be on track. This does not go from one year to another, it does not go overnight, it can only be validated in a long-term programme that the birth numbers of children may exceed the number of Hungarians who die, but we are making good progress on the road, because the indicators - and I think Madam Secretary will talk about it - indicate this to us. And here is the VATamantra, the VATamantra, which would be like a magical, everything-solving story if we were to wipe out the VAT quickly. By the way, no one is concerned that VAT revenues, Mr Secretary of State, represent the second largest amount of state revenue, so we are talking about one of the largest items of the budget spent on all education, health, social measures, and therefore on Hungary's life. On the other hand, we found that if we also looked back to the previous era, there was such a VAT reduction in 2006 as the shortest VAT reduction in the world. This lasted just as long as the elections took place; from 20 percent to 5 percent, then when the elections ended, and Comrade Gyurcsány was given the opportunity to become Prime Minister again, then suddenly they grew from 5 percent to 25 percent, so the VAT rates rose to even higher levels. So there's a problem here with the morals and the ability to tell. But if we don't deal with this, then let's look at the fact that if we reduce VAT, it doesn't stay primarily with customers. The real beneficiaries of the VAT reduction can be data, traders and producers. So, in practice, economic recovery and commercial recovery can be done, but these can only be done in small steps. I agree with my fellow Member, Dénes Galambos, and I believe that the time will come, because that is what we are doing to bring in the poultry meat and the fish. There is also a figure for this, since the VAT reduction, which was a 5% reduction, was calculated as about 0.9-1 per cent of this, by the way, and the rest was absorbed by traders. Another such area, which will be worth doing - and I'll show you some data - with data and facts, is an attack on families and Hungarian people by the budget and our tax policy, and the magical sentence that Márius Révész pointed out that this tax policy, this tax package, is only helping rich people. I think we should understand something on the other side that we're not followers of redistribution, we're not believers of drawing money from people, and anyone who behaves well will get something out of it. This has also been done during the reduction of the rent, as it has also affected everyone. One-key income tax also affects everyone. So, according to everyone's income, they have to pay both taxes, and if we can change that - such as now that we can reduce it by 1 percent, or what we have set out to do by 2018 to be a single digit, or perhaps an 8-9 percent tax rate - it will mean money for everyone, more money will remain for everyone, which he can spend freely. He decides what money he has left behind as a result of this measure, what he will use it for. I think it's a very important basis for this family tax. Also, the purpose of family taxation does not need to be further explained, what we have all talked about here: helping Hungarian families, childbearing, facilitating child rearing. If you like what many people here have been referring to, it also helps to stay in the homeland, the homeland. Obviously, this isn't a month-to-month program, but I think the direction is perfectly normal, and the numbers I'm going to talk about here are going to support that. Now, let's take a look at this wealth. I've collected a salary or two. Let's just say a single 50-year-old teacher can't be called rich, right? You're always talking about a very bad situation for teachers and nurses. Suppose, according to the government's career model introduced two years ago, this teacher earns 235 thousand forints a month, and now, from 2015 to 2016, she has 2350 forints a month, or 28 200 forints a year. We're talking about a man living alone. But we can also talk about a single family with two children, unfortunately there is one. Let's say a nurse who raises two children, earns a gross HUF 105,000 a year, which means HUF 72,600 a year. [[13.30]] If you buy a family with two earners and raise two children, this means HUF 9700 per month extra money, which remains with the family, which is HUF 116 400 per year, which is a monthly earnings, a good income in this segment, by the way. So I think what I've read here isn't about rich families and millionaires and I don't know who it affects. It is clear that the tax reduction that we are continuing in 2016 - I would like to stress it once again - is already part of a long-term economic measure, which György Matolcsy expressed as a new mercantilism after Colbert yesterday. Here are the actions that will be found in each segment. For example, in the case of a family with two children, with a gross income of HUF 105,000 and two earners, 85 200 HUF per year stays with people. But where this means a salary of HUF 200,000, there will be HUF 108 thousand a year in the family, and there is also a model - which I have just mentioned - that is also not rich people - where HUF 116 400 is, and this is only because of personal income tax. If you'll excuse me, I'd just like to add a few more items to that. If you count the savings from the reduction, this is between 125 and 165 thousand forints on average for each family. In a small flat, a 55-square-meter flat, there is 125 thousand forints per year left for people, and in a garden house there is 165 thousand forints, and we are also talking about families with two children. And then there is the family tax reduction, which is not included in this law because it has already been enshrined in the law, but it will rise from HUF 10 000 to HUF 12 500 per child and every month. If you like to calculate this, this means 300,000 forints a year, as it stays more than 25,000 forints a month than this family, this family with two children. This concerns 370 thousand families, 370 thousand average families, and 1.4 million people live in this 370 thousand family. In conclusion, the essence of this tax package, this tax policy, can be seen here. [[He's showing me a card.]] To say that it's not significant is rude, but to take money from people and make people live worse, and that's a hell of a lie. In fact, if you look at the reduction, if you look at the personal income tax change, the reduction and the family tax reduction, then a family of two children who live from work - whether they live from physical or mental work - and they have an average income in Hungary, there will be HUF 581 400 next year. Well, that's why we have this tax package. Our aim is to keep more money with the Hungarian families, and this tax package, this draft tax law, will ensure this. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-30-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Anita Heringes, MSZP Group, has submitted a speech. I give you the floor.
u2015-05-30-83	Thank you very much for the floor. Family support is supported by these tax laws, as we listen to our pro-government fellow Members. The amazing thing is that this 1 percent personal income tax reduction is an incredible achievement, and Szilárd Németh tries to back it up with numbers, and to tell you how well the nurse who earns 105,000 forints gross will be able to support her family, and then she can decide what she spends what remains with her after the 1 percent personal income tax reduction. The problem is that he doesn't decide, but he can decide which check he is paying now, because this 105,000 gross point is enough to put the checks in his drawer, as I've told you many times, and he's looking at which one has the deadline, which is to be paid, and which checks are to be paid because the light or gas is to be cut off. That is why, for example, most people pay least for water supply because they know that they do not cut it off, no matter what. This is the shocking fact that a nurse earns 105,000 forints gross today. This personal income tax reduction is exactly what one percent of a nurse's taxes today are ten times less than that of a secretary of state. I don't think it's worth more than a secretary of state or a minister's job for a nurse. It's no longer worth it, it can't be worth any more in personal income tax, which stays in your pocket, because these people work an incredible amount. And it would really be the solution that even we had that we didn't tax the minimum wage, because it's the money these people can spend on paying their checks, buying food and buying a minimum of services that will finally stay home. The better way is - as we have said many times - these amounts are spent abroad, not elsewhere. Márius Révész - although no longer in the room [[Márius Révész, sitting in the bench behind the State Secretarys, raises his hand.]] - a lot of times with that... He's here. He's just sitting up front making friends with his fellow Secretary of State. He used to throw it at us to say these sentences irresponsiblely. If you look at the MNB's balance sheet for the first half of 2014, the exchange rate gains were HUF 422 billion. If this money had not been allowed to be squandered to their friend Matolcsy, but rather, let's say, it would have been used for people, such as foreign exchange lenders, it would probably have been a more responsible way of thinking. I think, as many of my fellow Members have said, in this budget there is so much money, there is so much money, and there is so much irresponsible spending that people should be given back money rather than supporting the better way. And let's also look at the transmitter on the power line, where they're making it easier for the new wires. As I mentioned earlier, water utility operators have been destroyed in the same way as the waste suppliers, the waste transport system, or as the chimney sweeping system has now been completely destroyed. The water utility providers now stand the same way, and if you slowly do not act... - I do not feel sorry for the service providers, but for the people, because if these utility providers do not have any money left for maintenance, then it will simply be at the expense of the service, and then people will feel it. Because if the plumbing pipes break many times, and they will only get there later because of the deterioration of the utility companies or their equipment - because they don't have the money to buy new ones - they can't fix things, then they will take away their fundamental right from people to get clean drinking water as quickly as possible after such a mistake. The same problem with shipments of waste. You have imposed so many taxes over the last year and have put so many charges on these providers that they will not be able to give the service to the people, and the population will be hurt. I think tax laws should also be considered for you, a little self-absorbed, more humility needed, more movement between people, and then you would be confronted with a lot of things. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-30-84	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP Group.
u2015-05-30-85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My fellow Member, Szilárd Németh, spoke about - I am looking for it, and I cannot find it - that there is an increase in consumption. Let's look at the history of the past four or five years behind our backs. Practically in 2010 and the following four years, if I put the numbers together correctly, check, it doesn't reach or scrub 2 percent, in sum, of course, the rate of increase in consumption. A real real increase in consumption would be, ladies and gentlemen, if income positions were to increase among those who live their lives at a very low income level, because, in terms of their incomes, the proportion of their expenditure in the purchase of food is far higher than that of a person living at a better income level. In other words, I can't get back to anything but the fact that your primary task is to improve the life and position of living people at low income levels, and then the consumption would increase in a moderate way; not by taking away one third of the value of public workers' wages, not by having a minimum wage of 5 thousand forints less than in 2010, and I can give you examples. These people have to live, too. [[13.40]] You even taxed the minimum wage, you know, which was tax-free, raised from zero to 16 percent. [[Márius Révész: Medgyessy also said that this should be done.]] So this is your tax policy. By the way, so much for Szilárd Németh that if you use figures, at least read the KSH, at least read the KSH if you don't want to know the reality. 2010, 3.6 million employees - says Szilárd Németh. Look at the KSH, and then you can learn about the employment data and the wage conditions. And you must ensure that there are real jobs and wages in Hungary that guarantee livelihoods, decent wages! Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-05-30-86	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member of the Jobbik Group, applied for a two-minute speech. I give you the floor.
u2015-05-30-87	Mr President, Dear House, Although István Szilárd Németh is no longer in the room, I think it is important that I respond to his words. He stressed how inflation does not affect Hungarian people in everyday life, and that there was a period of deflation. To deny this, I would like to read the only thing: the QS's first briefing from April 2015 - perhaps all of us here in this room will accept the statistics of this, in my view, a world-class organization in several cases. According to KSH, consumer prices have decreased by an average of 0.3 per cent over the period considered, while food prices have increased by 0.4 per cent - so the gap between your inflation statistics, core inflation and reality is now fading. Once again, in the core inflation data you use, there is a one-year increase in the tractor's price, which a lot of people don't buy, let's say, among those who go to the market, there is also the price increase of the heavy machinery, and there is also milk, bread and eggs, only in different proportions - I try to simplify this, but the situation is that simple anyway. And in this context, within the 0.3 percent decrease in prices, the price of the food group in the system increases by 0.4 percent, and even further down, further looking at the price of seasonal foods, i.e. potatoes, fresh vegetables and fruit, increased by 6.8 percent during the period concerned, the price of eggs increased by 6.6 percent, while the price of food oil increased by 5 percent in a period when government communication refers to a decrease of 0.3 percent and even acknowledges that the price of food has only increased by 0.4 percent, while, once again, the price increase of the main broad bouquet of basic foods is between 5-6 percent and 6 percent in the period concerned. So don't even believe the statistics you manipulated yourself, so just focus on reality. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-30-88	Thank you, Congressman. For a two-minute speech, Mr Márius Révész, Fidesz Group, has applied. I give you the floor.
u2015-05-30-89	Thank you very much. Very briefly: Z. Kárpát I say to Daniel that core inflation is different, so he uses it poorly, so it is not the core inflation that KSH publishes. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: I didn't say that!]] Anyway, it's a different question. We want to understand what he's trying to say, but he's misinterpreting that concept. For Nándor Gúr: I didn't think that there would be any in today's comments that we agree on, and now the fact is that there is one. Indeed, I also think that a particularly important task for the coming period is to start catching up, and there are areas where we started, among the poorer social groups, where we have been very behind in terms of the economic consolidation of recent years. For example, for law enforcement organisations, the salary increase: they worked for net salaries of HUF 80,000, say police officers, which is totally unacceptable, and we are very happy that this pay gap will start from July this year, and the next year the budget will ensure full coverage of this. I also said in my contribution to Parliament that I hope that we have managed to consolidate the economy so much that we will also be able to move forward in the social sector. But because, Mr President, once again, the OECD statistics did not come out by accident that the income differences did not grow in Hungary, it came out because we have taken a lot of steps that are also positive for the poorest layers. Thus, the fact that they do community work for 60 or a few thousand forints instead of twenty or a few thousand forints, this is an extremely positive development for hundreds of thousands of families, three times as much as they will be paid as a public worker if they receive income support; and when we extended the family tax allowance to contributions, it has once again led to the benefit of the poorest families. That's why, while you keep saying that poverty scissors are opening, social groups are moving apart, statistics, when you count everything, Eurostat, KSH statistics all show that what you claim is not so. At the same time, we agree that in the case of the poorest sectors of income, salaries, which fall within the competence of the state, must be settled. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-30-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches announced in advance. I am now giving the floor to Members who have applied for a speech in the normal time frame. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, Fidesz Group.
u2015-05-30-91	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, If we're looking for the truth, we never look at what politicians say, but what they do! The bill before us contains all kinds of tax cuts, yet my fellow opposition Members are talking about something else and tax increases. It is a pity that my fellow socialists speak only during their opposition period about the need to reduce taxes; when they are on the government, they have never thought of this before, because during their governance they have made brutal tax increases. Let us remember that period, not so long ago, before 2010, how much tax the Gyurcsány government raised and to what extent. They were then the government of tax increases. Half of the employee's salary was taken at the time by taxes, which now represented double the current 16 percent, i.e. 32 percent. Children were not helped, and family tax relief was taken from them. Due to the constant restrictions and tax increases, Hungarian families were indebted and poor at the time. Let us recall the period when VAT was raised, pensions, family allowances, social and welfare subsidies were to be taxed. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Council of the European Union, As much as you would like us to discourage tax cuts and cuts, I will tell you that we will not do this. We stand by the policy of tax cuts. Next year, we will increase the tax relief of families with two children, we will further reduce the deficit, and our goal - as has already been said several times in today's debate from my pro-government colleagues - is to make personal income tax one-digit in a few years, so that Hungarian workers will be able to pay Europe's lowest tax rate in a few years. That's our goal. We have already achieved this goal in another area in just a few years: let us think back on the cuts in overhead. Today, in Europe, we Hungarians pay the lowest energy prices compared to our income. [[The notary seat is occupied by Dezső Believing.]] I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that it is important not only to see how many taxes there are in Hungary today, but it is also very important, because this number can not say much, but it can be a small tax, but it is a very, very heavy burden on many people; and there may be more taxes that allow everyone in Hungary to take their share of proportionate public burdens to a lesser, bearable extent. [[13.50]] We follow the philosophy that wage taxes should be as low as possible, so that we can keep as much money as possible on their income with people. Now, after the laws to be adopted, we will help 4 million 141 thousand workers to keep more money in the family register as a result of the cuts. These 4 million 141 thousand people, of course, do not live alone, but live in a family, so we also give them a corresponding family discount. I return to the idea with which I began to think that it is good and desirable not to look at what politicians are saying, what they are talking about, what they are talking about, but what they are doing. I would like to ask my fellow opposition Members not only to look at what they are saying, but also to read. It would be good if you read the bill before us, because then you can see that this means a tax reduction. And with these tax cuts, we benefit the Hungarian people. Please let us be partners in this. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-05-30-92	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP Group, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor.
u2015-05-30-93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I see that you are pursuing a policy of the kind that the savage capitalists have done, they do. On what do I base this introductory thought? Remember the history of the last five years, say, the year 2012, the code of shameful labor that was born. How does it relate here? I'll tell you right away. Within the framework of this Labour Code, regulatory systems have been put in place which, by a decisive majority, have put people in a lower income position in an even more disadvantaged position. I'll give you examples so you don't just grab me as a general sentence. Do you remember the elimination and reduction of allowances? It is not the State Secretarys who should receive these types of allowances, because they are already receiving higher benefits; they have even submitted a duplicate to the Parliament if the Secretary of State is carrying out a type of activity that is accompanied by another mandate. Anyway, the point is, these people who live their lives at lower income levels, they took the afternoon allowance away from them, they reduced the night allowance. But if I have already referred to the Labour Code, I must also add that in Hungary the smallest possible people who have obtained income that does not reach the minimum wage, in the case of public workers, there has been legislation under which, for example, identity and equality between workers are not in place. I'll give you an example, again, so that you don't grab me as a general sentence, so that you can make a difference. This is the definition of supplementary leave. In this respect, it is not possible for the public worker to apply the amount of service he has acquired for decades before him. It doesn't matter how many children he raises. With regard to supplementary leave, this falls out. What I want to tell you is that we are not speaking in general about the thoughts that we are talking about, but rather through a lot of measures that can be supported by thousands and thousands of times, that you are choking precisely the people who are in a very difficult situation. One word, like a hundred, you can talk about any kind of tax reduction policy, while the last five years have shown that more than 50 new taxes have been introduced, of which - by confirming the opinion of other Members - a very large number, most of which are to be reviewed and liquidated. It should be considered whether they are free and should be used, because it is precisely the part of society that is already in a difficult situation. Like I said, I'm telling you right now, you're embarrassing everything that's been the backhand, the disadvantage of the tax system for the last five years, and that's what's been confirmed. That's what he wants to carry on. The high tax burden. Check the rate of tax concentration. It was high five years ago, but now it's even higher. And look at what they do in many other ways. We talked about reducing personal income tax in the previous hours, but about justice, how we want to help the majority of society in this regard, little about it. Once again, I would like to suggest to you... my fellow Member, Márius Révész, it is commendable that after five years, in the sixth year, you have what I am saying, that yes, people in low income positions should be helped. But they could have done that for five years. They were supposed to do this for five years! It's not the sixth year to wake up and talk about it. Of course, I have no doubt that they will do nothing in this regard. You can see in the current tax law, in which there is a 1 percent reduction, but out of the so-called 120 billion forints, 90 billion are taken by top 20 percent of those earning at the upper income level, on the total income scale. The rest is what four times as many people can share. The remainder, which is less than a third of what the top 20 percent takes. They should be thinking about whether it's okay. They should think about what we have been saying from the opposition for many years. It is important to reduce the European tax burden of at least 27 per cent of the world's peak for basic food in terms of VAT. Because through this, the price of accessible products is also decreasing. It may not be the same, but it's decreasing. And you know, if you have to buy food from the vast majority of your salary, it doesn't matter if the price of the product that he wants to buy is reduced. You don't want to make a fuss about that. Now, in the sixth year, they come up with a reduction in VAT on pigmeat, which is a fraction of what they intend to collect in excess of the revenue from the general turnover tax of the previous year in 2016. One-tenth! They'll take ten times as much and give back one tenth! And they're talking about what a miracle you're doing. That's insolence. This is what you should not boast about, but be silent and ashamed of this government. [[Márius Révész: Alas, alas!]] You know, I am very sorry that I have nothing else to say about the concerns raised by my fellow Member Tamás László, and I am very sorry that I have nothing to say but what started their governance five and a half years ago. You have not promised action plans to protect jobs, not solutions of the type that he or you are talking about, but one million new jobs in the economy. Taxpayer new jobs in the economy. They didn't make any of this! All I can say is that to my fellow Member, Szilárd Németh, whom I do not see here; he said what he wanted and left, that he should be politicalised with real data. At least take the KSH on the basis and take it into account. At least if you're not interested in life. I say closed years on employment policy. In 2009, 3 million 748 thousand people worked in this country. In the closed year of 2014, 4 million 101,000 people. The difference is 353 thousand people. In the closed year of 2009, 45,000 people worked as public workers in this country. According to data for the closed year 2014, more than 200,000 people are employed as public workers. There's a difference of 160,000. You can feel it, can't you? Half of the surplus in the statements is issued by the public workers. [[14.00]] About half a million people have been driven away from Hungary in the last five years, and they have not created a job for them, the promised, you know, that one million new tax-paying jobs. Hundreds of thousands of these people - more than 100,000 - are included in Hungarian statistics as employed [[Márius Révész: Don't be a demagogue!]] who work out there, elsewhere, in England, Germany, Austria. They left this country because of your mistake. [[Dr. Répássy, Róbert: They left because of EU accession.]] because they couldn't make a living at home, and you registered them as employed in Hungarian statistics, boasting that employment is increasing. No! It's right on the negative. [[Dr. Répássy, Róbert: You said that you could open a pastry shop in Vienna.]] That they had to leave the country, they found work there, they could do work there... no matter what you refer to, Mr. Secretary of State. There, elsewhere, they do work because of your fault, and they are recorded in Hungarian statistics. One word, as far as KSH records are concerned, you must be clear that you didn't make any of that - you didn't do anything about it! - what they promised. There aren't a million new jobs in the economy, no! Between 30 and 50 thousand jobs in the economy are pulsating in relation to 2010-15. There are movements within the margin of error. You don't talk about employment policy, you don't talk about it, because everything you say is uncredited. In addition, with regard to wage policy, you must note that you have drawn a negative position for millions of people working. The minimum wage earner's money, I've told you many times, look at the 68 750 forints they earn today, is worth 5 thousand forints less than in 2010, when they took their 60 200 forints in hand. The public employee, who took over HUF 60 200 in 2010, now has a public employment salary of HUF 40,000. But also civil servants: 38 650 forints, during the period of your two consecutive government, did not grow by a penny. Nearly 70 percent of Hungarian workers earn under average income, almost 70 percent. More than 2.2 million people earn their income in a minimum of living. What are you talking about? What are you talking about? ! So a little less in terms of employment policy and wage position; a little less, because lying statistics cannot go forward! Is the unemployment rate falling? Of course it's coming down! If you go abroad, it's someone who was unemployed in the register - of course it's falling. If I take him out of the system as a public employee, it's almost as if I'm giving him a job, to a lot of people whose self-esteem is getting worse because he can't do decent work because what they're offering a lot of people in public employment is not a job. This is not the way to reduce unemployment rates; this is not the way to increase employment rates and figures. It's manipulation, it's bullshit for people! Responsiblely, the vast majority of people living in Hungarian society should benefit. It is your duty, duty and responsibility, but you are in a position to do the most today. So, with all due respect, I ask you to do this, and no one else, to preach, to act, and so, according to this! Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2015-05-30-94	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A speech will be made by Member Gábor Riz, Fidesz Group.
u2015-05-30-95	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I'm trying to be a little low-key, perhaps compensating for Congressman Gur's vehemence. [[Dr. István Józsa intervenes.]] We are talking about a cake, Congressman, a cake called Hungary's budget. About a cake that could be divided into 100 slices, you'd need 130. When negotiating the budget and planning the budget, it should always be a government responsibility. You've had it, people have judged you, twice, two-thirds. [[Dr. István Józsa: Don't overestimate it!]] Do you remember him? Twice by two thirds of the majority - the socialists have already been judged. I hope that Jobbik will have a government position at some point in the distant future, because it is very easy to comment on a budget and throw various data at it and then make proposals in the budget that, in a context, its impact on the entire budget may not have been measured. [[Nándor Gúr intervenes.]] Congressman Gur, I have listened with patience to you, do so, believe me, that I will say valuable things to you, perhaps. [[Dr. István Józsa: Let's see. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2015-05-30-96	Fellow Members! Excuse me, Congressman. The opportunity to comment is given to everyone. Let's stick to the parliamentary form. Thank you. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-30-97	One of the key elements of Fidesz-KDNP's economic policy since 2010 is to promote employment growth, balanced economic growth and a reduction in public debt through strengthening the competitiveness of Hungarian businesses. One of the most important principles in the future is that everyone who is healthy and working age should get to work. This is a long-term government goal. The results achieved in recent years show that the work started five years ago was not in vain. As a result of the economic policy measures taken in recent years, last year the Hungarian economy also increased significantly in European comparison. In 2014, the Hungarian economy expanded by 3.6 percent, which was one of the highest GDP growth across the European Union. Improved employment figures and a persistently low inflation environment lead to an increase in internal consumption dynamics and, as a result, this year's primary engine of economic growth could be domestic consumption. Today more than 400 thousand people work and pay contributions in Hungary than in 2010. At the same time, unemployment has also decreased significantly, in terms of the European Union, at one of the most dynamic rates in our country. [[Nándor Gúr: Put the paper down, try it like that.]] Honourable Members, Honourable Congressman Gur, too. As a continuation of the work started four years ago, 2016 will be one of the steps taken towards tax reduction, full employment and the year of strengthening the competitiveness of domestic businesses. The government's budget bill was drawn up on the basis of these objectives while maintaining the balance of public finances. This tax system has already been proven to ensure financial stability, social security and economic growth for Hungary. The government's aim in 2016 is to keep the tax burden on families, workers and businesses raised by children at a low level and to encourage the whitening of the economy. As a further extension of family taxation, family tax relief for families with two children will double in four years from 2016 onwards. The combined tax base reduction rate increases year after year, with the monthly tax on families rising from HUF 10 thousand per child to HUF 20,000 per year in 2019, i.e. HUF 2500 per year. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, with me, is concerned about the future of Hungarians in terms of population policy. I look at Mrs State Secretary, and I would like to reassure you, and I hope that this trend will continue, which Minister announced the other day, that the proportion of children to be born will finally show an upward trend. Unfortunately, and I think we're all worried about this together, but every year, we're a small town short in this country. The employment protection programme continues, which has already enabled the employment of nearly 900 000 workers and has reduced the burden of employers by nearly 250 billion since its departure. At the same time, it is a novelty for the programme that, according to the recent amendment, entrepreneurs who employ workers between 25 and 55 years of age in agriculture will be able to participate in the job protection programme next year. Growth tax credit will be introduced as a novelty in the area of corporate taxation in order to support enterprises that achieve economic success. Enterprises which increase their pre-tax profit at least five times from one year to the next may postpone the payment of the tax, leaving them with more resources to expand their activities. The corporate tax liability of companies benefiting from a growth tax credit does not change, as this will only delay the timing of payments to the budget. The point of the discount is that, for the part of the pre-tax profit that exceeds the pre-tax profit of the preceding tax year, the tax is to be paid on a quarterly basis over the next two tax years. It acts as a quasi-loan for the particular employer, and this is the residual tax credit for a given enterprise. [[14.10]] The growth tax credit provides financial assistance to the most dynamically emerging companies operating legally, since the corporate tax that should be paid to the budget in the year of growth is left at the company's disposal and is later asked to pay in several smaller instalments. In this way, the fastest growing companies can continue to grow, taxing will not discourage development, job expansion, further expansion and growth. The right to a discount may be granted under the following conditions. The taxpayer has been operating for more than 3 years, the taxpayer has not been involved in transformation, merger, division or other financial changes in the tax year and in the three tax years preceding the tax year. The taxpayer's pre-tax profit before tax amounts to five times the pre-tax profit of the preceding tax year and the taxpayer declares to the tax authority in advance that it intends to apply the provisions on growth tax credit. Growth tax credit aims to recognise and support growth in real market competition. In order to further stimulate economic growth, the economic tax on small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary remains low. From 2011 the government reduced corporate tax from 19% to 10 percent up to HUF 500 million tax base. Another important positive change is the amendment of Act C of 1990 on Local Taxes, which allows the local government to grant tax advantages to those general medical professionals whose total turnover is at least 80 percent derived from their basic medical and health care activities and their tax base does not exceed HUF 10 million. This tax advantage constitutes de minimis aid. In recent years, taxes on income have shifted the focus of the system towards consumption, traffic and special taxes such as environmental and health taxes. What is the objective of the tax system? So that as many people can work in Hungary, and the income they earn can spend as much as possible on educating their children. The economic policy of Fidesz-KDNP remains the same in that all economic operators must take their share of the public burden. Accordingly, sectoral special taxes continue to form part of the Hungarian tax system, but in view of the economic performance of the country, it is possible to redefine these types of taxes. The 2006 LIX on special tax and contribution to improve the balance of public finances. On 9 February 2015, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Government of Hungary entered into an agreement pursuant to the amendment of Law. In the context of the Memorandum of Understanding, the bank tax cap for credit institutions is thus reduced from 0,53 per cent in 2016 to 0,31 per cent, and a further change from 2016 to 2016 is that credit institutions' tax bases are not established on the basis of the balance sheet total for 2009 but on the basis of the balance sheet total for 2014. Ladies and gentlemen, After the crisis in the Hungarian economy in 2010, the move towards a healthier and more balanced growth structure has become permanent in recent years. The performance of the Hungarian economy in 2014 was significantly higher than the preliminary expectations, but it was also one of the highest in the European Union as a whole. In the coming years, the economic path is projected to lead to a stable, balanced economic growth, with the population's decline in forint and foreign exchange debt contributing to the recovery of demand and further employment growth, which can be accompanied by further strengthening of small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. I would ask my fellow Members to at least agree on the fundamentals that this cake is given, taking into account those who would like to take part in this cake, to try to address the issue in accordance with the fact that the government is currently on the platform of justice, proportionality and public burdens. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-30-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A statement will be made by Mr János Volner, Mr Jobbik Group. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-30-99	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The bill before us concerns a number of types of taxation, and in this context it is worth considering the stability of the tax system, because it is not the first time the government has introduced those taxes for various amendments, it is not the first time that a tax is made again, again and again by the government. Typically, these taxes are usually increased. What's really important? For example, predictability within the tax system would be important. I can now also advise the Government, as an economic policyman of Jobbik, that if they want to do good for the Hungarian economy, they can make the tax system predictable. Hungary could be given the most in terms of the tax system by a political force starting its work by adding the most important taxes affecting the operation of companies in advance for years with a top ceiling in the budget, which means that, if the state of the economy allows it, the tax races will rather decrease but will not increase in any way. Unfortunately, the government did not do this, constantly raising it over more than a number of tax categories, leading players in different sectors to believe that it would lead to certain types of taxes and then reduce taxes, but then these tax reductions did not come. The issue of VAT must be highlighted, which has become an independent source of problems and a set of problems not only at Hungarian level, but also at European Union level. What happened to VAT, and what else was Fidesz's attitude about this in 2009? When the socialist governments first reduced the VAT from 25 to 20 percent, and then, in the summer of 2009, they raised the VAT to 25 percent again, then, indeed, Fidesz politicians said that this is so bad, we should not raise VAT, the VAT rate is too high, the Fidesz does not agree that the VAT increase is happening. Then Fidesz came to government, and we were surprised to see - or perhaps at that time we were less surprised by the many insubordinations - that the 27 percent VAT rate of the world record in Hungary was what even Europe's developed states, where there was a high level of value added tax, marvelled at the fact that they had not seen such a high level in the European Union. Well, the Orbán government managed to implement this. Why do governments usually like VAT? It's worth checking out. Because they believe that taxes that can be collected at the lowest social cost are good, such as VAT. In Hungary, taxes that can be collected at a small social cost are considered fair, the cost of tax administration is low, and VAT is more or less equivalent and does not change the economic conditions of individuals and businesses significantly, or if so, they are encouraged. It is worth looking at how the corresponding value added tax initially distorted in the Hungarian tax system. What we see now is that the poor receive a high tax burden on the level of VAT in proportion to their income, so this is a tax on the poor. It is very important to see and state this. It is also very important to see that with the tax system that we now operate in Hungary, we are punishing the poor because there is no VAT reduction for basic foods, the VAT on products for child rearing, they are too high, few children are born, it is difficult to survive these times of economic crisis for people, and they are taxed with a world record VAT, even in the face of poverty, even in the awareness of poverty, by members of the current government. It is also important to see that VAT in its current form is unsustainable in Hungary. The European Commission places the amount of VAT cheated at the annual level among HUF 900-1200 billion in Hungary, because some sectors, some economic operators, virtually vanish VAT, and thus seriously distort Hungary's economic conditions and create a huge loss within the Hungarian budget. The question should be asked whether the tax system that applies a world-wide VAT rate in a European Union where everyone in Hungary otherwise counts with a lower VAT rate is optimal. [[14.20]] It is clear that the Hungarian economy is at a competitive disadvantage against others due to the huge, outstanding VAT rate, the economic relations are distorted, since in some economic sectors the tax is lost, some economic operators can be eliminated from the tax, and in this way not only the budget is damaged, but also those companies that wish to fight with otherwise honest means, who are the victims of this VAT fraud. It can also be seen that if the government wants to do something about VAT, it is typically not thinking about reducing VAT and thus achieving tax harmonisation, for example, towards neighbouring countries, but what happens is that it tries to capture money by means of measures that increase tax collection efficiency, and it puts all its costs on society. For example, the connection of online cash registers, which really has a bleach effect on the economy. Jobbik agrees with the introduction of this, and we support it, but it is not at the expense of businesses that we have to take this measure, as Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises in their current bleeding situation can hardly bear these burdens. It is important to see that when the government talks about imposing different income taxes in such a way as to reduce taxation of labour taxes and shift the focus of taxation to consumption, it sets out a principle that can be agreed on in itself, but unfortunately, in practice, the situation is different. As my fellow Member has already said, the tax burden on living labour is outstanding in Hungary, and Hungary is therefore not partially competitive, and Jobbik was the only one that made a viable economic alternative to current personal income tax when it outlined the tax system supporting production. We say that we should not think about the current system, where the Fidesz government has allocated more than HUF 500 billion to the 10 percent of the best earning employees, but in a tax system that focuses tax incentives on industry, agriculture and tourism because, unfortunately, there is a need to strengthen the very weak foundations of the Hungarian economy at present. It is important to see that when the government accepts changes in corporate tax in the form of a growth tax loan, it opens up this opportunity for everyone, and does not limit this scope to, for example, the least capitalised micro-enterprises in the worst position. Basically, this can be seen as an oligarch loan, because, as the economic press has already written, the persons belonging to the Prime Minister's immediate environment and kinship will benefit from it in outstanding terms, not in the case of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises in extremely bad economic conditions. It is also important to see what happened to these taxes when the government announced back in 2010. One can agree with the involvement of the various economic operators in the multilateral sector in the Hungarian public burden-sharing to a significantly higher extent than before. Unfortunately, this was not the case in Hungary. What happened here was that the government imposed the bank tax, imposed the transaction tax by allowing it to pass it on to the public at 100%, allowing companies to - not exert supervisory pressure on them, not trying to eliminate this transfer - to make the public pay the costs of the taxes. What is happening in this case? The Orbán government is campaigning to tax the ugly, evil multinationals, the banks, the banks against which the general public's grudges at this time, when hundreds of thousands of foreign exchange-credit families are crippled, of course, are high. However, this is not the case, since it allows banks to pass on the bank tax, the transaction fee. It was a good example that when the transaction fee law came out, I drew attention to the fact that there was no guarantee in this law that it could not be passed on to the population. What happened? The initial rate of transaction fee was published in the legal text, and shortly thereafter, the bank's customers, individuals and businesses will receive a letter from their commercial bank informing them that the transaction costs will increase by just as much as the transaction fee will have to be paid by that commercial bank. Well, please, it's passed on to the population one at a time. We held a press conference on this, said that the transfer would take place, but the Orbán government did nothing to avoid it. And when that happened, it was part of a cheap political charade to point fingers at banks and talk about the government's idea of taxing banks. Apparently, that's not what happened. These taxes have clearly been passed on to the population, and unfortunately, the tax system is not working optimally in Hungary in this way, to say the least. I would like to talk about one more very important thing, and this is the amazing difference in the taxation of different businesses that can be experienced. If a foreign company comes to Hungary to work, it will pay us the corporate tax, and then you will be free to withdraw your profits from Hungary. If a Hungarian company tries to do the same, it pays corporate tax, and then the government pays it about the same amount of corporate tax, so that a Hungarian company will have a much higher tax burden, twice as much as that of a foreign company. When we drew the government's attention to this amazing situation, we also mentioned to the Minister of National Economy, György Matolcsy, how, during a government calling itself a national, Hungarian businesses could be taxed more heavily than foreigners, the Minister could not say anything about it with a noble simplicity. This is an outrage, ladies and gentlemen. It is also important to talk about which groups of entrepreneurs can make use of the different tax incentives. There are a number of studies, a number of statistics, which show that these benefits are most accessible to highly profitable multinational companies. They are the ones who have access to state aid, they receive a significant part of the funding, and Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises can pay a tax that virtually others do not pay, as the government grants the multinationals in grants, tender funds and tax incentives. The consequence of this unequal tax situation is that Hungarian companies are losing their jobs in Hungary, unable to employ people, unable to grow up, whereas foreign companies live and thrive, while regional companies have regularly left Hungary, practically the Hungarian industry has already ceased, destroyed, is not worth creating industrial capacities in Hungary, because partly the tax environment makes this impossible in many cases, and partly the availability of labour force, which makes industrial production impossible. Unfortunately, this tax law, which is currently in front of us, is only going to get worse. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-30-100	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. First, I give the floor to Mr István Józsa, MSZP Group.
u2015-05-30-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, He asked us, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, not to watch who says what, but to see who does what. And so beautifully allied with this whole reduction term composition, I would like to respond to it. It would be nice if you could go back a little longer and look at the data sets than you have been in the Hungarian Parliament. There is a professional term for tax centralization. In doing so, economists state what percentage of domestic production, GDP, is in the budget. I say round numbers: it was 48 per cent before 2010, then it crawled up to 50 per cent. This means that, overall, you have collected an additional tax of 2% of GDP in the form of a total reduction. [[14.30]] By the way, that comes out of the macro numbers. There are no miracles in the economy, only to ensure a budget deficit of less than 3 per cent; I would add, in addition to your spending, because you have to cover everything for stadiums, company purchases, bank purchases. I have an extraordinary respect for your determined goodwill, your naivety, but if we look at the facts behind your economic policy, they show that by installing intermediate tax collectors, this is what special taxes mean, so we are not sorry for the companies from which you collect taxes, we are sorry for the final consumer who costs more service. I ask that certain objective tax centralisation processes be taken into account. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Nándor Gúr applauds.]]
u2015-05-30-102	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Mónika Dunai, Fidesz Group, two minutes.
u2015-05-30-103	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to Nándor Gúr's previous comment. He asked us to wake up. Now, for your information, I'm reporting to you, we haven't slept. But maybe you slept last year when we introduced a tax reduction for small-time earners. In the context of the tax reduction of small-time earners, families who raise children and are unable to deduct benefits from their own taxes can also deduct these benefits from contributions. There are 110,000 families in Hungary with virtually gross salaries in their pockets throughout the month. [[Dr. István Józsa: We suggested this.]] If you figure out what percentage of this is, then if you get a gross salary, it's zero percent. The proposed, if I remember correctly, proposed a 5 percent sja in the debate so that it would be as high as the current 110,000 children with low income incomes. The other thing I'd like to mention very briefly is that you've given me statistical numbers that are simply not real. He asked us to account for a million jobs that we actually promised. You claimed that none of this was realized. There are 450 thousand more workers in Hungary today than before 2010, in 2009. But if you compare it to last year alone, with the first quarter of last year, based on the latest report by the HCSO, that means 73,000 new jobs. And another important number is that 60,000 new jobs have been created. Not only the number of workers but also the number of jobs has increased. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-30-104	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group.
u2015-05-30-105	Mr President, Dear House, I am very sorry that, after the critical remark made by Márius Révész, I see that he is not here, but Mr. Secretary of State, who nodded violently to what he said, is still here. I am very sorry that, when we mentioned in connection with the QS's first briefing that, while campaigning for an average reduction in prices of 0.3 per cent, the prices of fresh vegetables, fruit and potatoes increase by 6.8 per cent, they did not respond in substance, neither did Márius Révész and Minister of State. He didn't push a button either. His answer became simple bondage, as if the betterman or anyone else couldn't tell the difference between core inflation and others. Yes, we know very well that core inflation is what has been cleansed of the rapidly changing external economic effects. It's a guide number for the economy. And we also know very well that you refer to this, as well as to the inflationary data of the HCSO. So I'm talking about two separate things that you're referring to. And there is a third category, this reality, in Hungarian reality, the Hungarian people experience that core inflation figures, whether or not, ISH statistics about inflation, from which the government only highlights what is beneficial to them. I indicated here that it pointed out that prices had fallen by 0.3 percent during the period considered. But what he does not say is that in the same period, the government is fraudulently silent about the fact that the price of a very large number of basic foods is approaching the extreme value of the average, so in the case of potatoes, fresh vegetables and fruit, I have already mentioned that there has been an increase in prices of almost 7 per cent, in the case of eggs of 6.6 per cent, and in the case of food oil of 5 per cent. So instead of being cheap, it is our request, or even our demand, to respond substantially to the substantive points, because we are not doing them for our own good, but for a very simple reason. The reason is that we are finally moving for the benefit of Hungary's citizens. I'm telling you again, don't let this get cheap. Thank you for the opportunity.
u2015-05-30-106	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have speeches to make, and we are at the end of the two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group.
u2015-05-30-107	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to focus on the most important area of tax policy, and I am very pleased that Madam Secretary of State is among us, because I am confident that we can have a meaningful exchange of views on the promotion of Hungarian childbearing and in order to subject tax policy to this. I do not want to take the measures that help the lives of Hungarian families. So, compared to some of the previous speakers, I am not a counter-favorer, and even I strongly vote in favour of tax cuts that the button rips out of place. But I would like to change at systemic level, I would like to take much more effective steps with my group in order to make the situation of Hungarian families really easier, and no one, I repeat: no Hungarian family should be in a position to find their prosperity in another country because of economic constraints. Let's get out of the stats. People's movement statistics, I say, mean some movement, and I am very, very happy for every single born Hungarian child. We can perfectly see that the first quarter of this year's population movement data that compares data sets with the previous period covers more than 22,000 children born in the first three months of the year, quite rightly, which is 3.3 percent more than in the previous similar period. I'm not saying it's a shift within the margin of error, because I appreciate all kinds of displacement, I'm saying that systemic improvement is not yet achieved. I have two problems with this data stream. One is that it is worth discussing the situation with the born children of Hungarians residing abroad. Where and in which statistics do they belong? We're talking about hundreds of thousands of social groups here. I very much hope that as many of them will want to find their place here, in Hungary. But just as the emigration statistics are not accurate, as they are based on estimates, many do not even announce leaving the country and are having children that they appear in the system and statistics here. But then, where appropriate, the child will grow up in Hungary, not in Hungary, not in Hungary, and not in Hungary, where he absorbs the cultural roots that will enable him to build this country in an excellent way. Therefore, I say that this statistics and this image should be nuanced. And there is a very, very catastrophic procession, the other side, a very unfortunate increase in the number of deaths, which rose very much by 15 percent compared to the first quarter of 2014. So, compared to the 3.5 percent improvement, there is a 15 percent deterioration on this site, to which the relatively positive data series of last year's base year contributes, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the experts talk a lot about the consequences of the influenza epidemic. So there are reasons for that. But we can see that a systemic shift, whether towards a 100 thousand or 120 thousand births, cannot be seen. Some expert estimates, however, set the limit to 120,000 where reproduction could be discussed at all, but there are more pessimistic ones to 150,000. We can see that 55 years ago, if I remember the statistics correctly, there were more than half a million conceptions in one year. And then there were a lot of unfortunate abortions, and the number of live births obviously couldn't have reached half a million, but it was a magnitude higher than today. Obviously, we have a common goal of achieving this, of approaching it. So let's look at the tool system, how to approach this goal. Because having a child is a decades-long plan, it requires predictability. I am very pleased that this has already been widely recognised in public life, and I would also like to trust that the tax system, the budget planning, will finally start in a direction where there will be, through cycles, forms of family support that a family can count on in a 20-year perspective. [[14.40]] Today, there is no guarantee of this, because as governments come and go, most of the preferential forms have been killed out of the Hungarian economic system. Now, with regard to the newly introduced ones, I hope that no one will dare touch them, but will expand them. That is why I would take this opportunity: in the course of the budgetary debate, a proposal for an amendment by several representatives of Jobbik which supports artificial insemination, the so-called flask baby programme, because we must see that tens of thousands of young Hungarians and middle-aged people are struggling with this problem. There is also a representative in the Jobbik faction, whose two beautiful daughters could come into the world with such help, and he can be proud of it himself, his family and the country-world that these children are here among us. I would very much like the Government to be able to support our improving proposals to contribute literally to the creation of Hungarian lives. I do not think that a higher or more sacred goal can be formulated in the Hungarian Parliament. Therefore, I would very much ask that, after the budgetary debate, the detailed debate in the Commission and then the final debate, you also have in mind how much support this area requires. If the British correction reaches 21 billion, Great Britain's cows and the economy there are supported with the Hungarian taxpayers' money, and the government has not yet given up on this, it has not started to renegotiate, then at least the same magnitude of the amount of money for the Hungarian reproduction programmes. The VAT issue has already been mentioned on several occasions by my fellow Members. Here, too, we must say that the deduction of VAT on child-rearing articles to 5% would take only a fraction - fifth to sixth - of the hundreds of billions released from the increase in GDP that you have referred to, so your reference, based on your argument system, would have money for this, a framework and an opportunity. What is lacking, however, in a painful way, is either the introduction of the social card itself or a system - whatever you may call it - that could be targeted at delivering aids or to the child, or that could be used directly to the articles needed to raise children. I do not insist on the name of the social card, but I do insist that certain forms of support allocated to children should not be devoted to the passions of parents; and respect for the exception, we do not generalize, but there is such a phenomenon in Hungary, denying it or not talking about it would be a sin. Finally, the most important - an amendment - was also proposed - was the perfect lack of prospects for home creation. Many people leave Hungary because they consider their own home to be inaccessible from the average payment according to the HCSO for a period of 10 or 15 years. If you assume a minimum saving rate and start putting these amounts aside, you can't buy a 60 square meter apartment in 20 years without family help or outside crutches. This contributes greatly to the migration of crowds from Hungary, while the current budget does not have a proper set of homes either. Therefore Jobbik proposes a comprehensive system of home creation and rental construction, which is backed by a central acquisition of materials, a state foothold, Hungarian contractors would be able to do it at a printed price, and Hungarian young people could move in here for half and a third of the market rents, and if basic social living standards were respected, then after a few years, even after a period of 6-8 years, the apartment could become their property. We calculated - professional calculations are available - within four to six years, this system would rewind the last budget HUF, as it would spin the Hungarian economy, contribute to the Hungarian citizens' stay at home, generate new tax revenues, which is one of the most important corners of a tax dispute, by the way. And I must add that, in a tax package, we do not discuss a line of home creation, home-building subsidies, the types of taxes that concern it, in itself, a certificate of poverty for the present Parliament. That's why I wanted to bring this subject in here. I look forward to your meaningful reactions, since every tax policy and budgetary decision must be subject to the most sacred goal, namely to allow as many children as possible to be born in Hungary. Thank you for your attention. [[János Volner applauds.]]
u2015-05-30-108	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr István Józsa, MSZP Group, will be speaking.
u2015-05-30-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to continue with the series of comments on the ground. Taxation has to play its part in social responsibility and social responsibility according to everyone's talents. There's a difference of opinion between us. You say that linear properly fair social responsibility, and we say no, we do not agree with the fact that from zero to 16 percent of the minimum wage tax has been increased, and we do not agree with this type of single-key income tax. If you recall, one of the top demands in the 12th section of the, 48th, was fair public burdens. If you look at this tax law, which has been used by Mónika Duna, with a full reduction, there are indeed such small cuts, but it does not mean a significant shift towards fair public burdens, especially - referring to the words of Gábor Riz, who is a little disoriented as regards crisis management - compared to the situation in 2010. As I said, the Hungarian budget is characterised by a significant increase in tax centralization of between 500 and 600 billion compared to the change of government. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that in the crisis management of 2008-2009 the Bajnai government was successful - it is wrong what you are yelling, ask anyone who deals with these issues impartially and will confirm it - so consolidation has been achieved by the second half of 2009. It's also a lie, what you guys say about the 13th month. The 13th month was introduced by socialist governments, and the crisis took him away, and you didn't give him back. If they like to say it so much, then come on, here it is, the economy is pounding, it can be done. So I'm the one who's protecting you from wanting the good in words. Mr Béla Glattfelder, State Secretary, before saying goodbye to the plenary Chamber, warned us that underestimating the country's performance would harm the country. And I say that if we fall into the sin of giddy overgratification, then the credibility of the Hungarian government will be lost. It may be a little strange that I am concerned as an opposition about the credibility of the government, but if we look at the confidence of the investment sphere, then on the one hand, this concern is justified because there is no excessive confidence in the international investor sphere of today's government, and on the other hand, I would like to draw attention to the fact that overestimation and secrecy can do at least as much harm or harm to the opposition's exposure to certain problems. I do not want to say that, in terms of actual processes, we have actually seen a populous government activity here over the last half decade, but if we look at the fact that the proportion of people living in poverty has increased by about one and a half times, who can barely make a living from one month to the next - you are trying to cover it up with all kinds of partial statistics, but in fact, this is the case - this may be an old way of saying that among the walls of Parliament, that it is a populous government, but if you listen to the protestors, what they called here yesterday afternoon and other times, it is not too far from the public mood. Here, too, I would like to refer back to Mr Gábor Riz's comment. Perhaps, if you listened to your Prime Minister's speech yesterday - let's say at least I listened to the highlights of the news - he was moved by the majority side to be careful and sensitive. So he got past over over the fact that last year's election result was overrated when everything was done - a scramble, a change of electoral law, intimidation of public workers, so all legitimate but immoral tricks were cast - to produce this election result, and the public sentiment, as I mentioned in the protests, did not improve. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: I understand that the protests have not improved.]] [[14.50]] So I'm asking you to face reality and take real measures instead of all the cuts. Thank you.
u2015-05-30-110	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP Group, has applied for a speech. I give the floor to the time available.
u2015-05-30-111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you, Mónika of the Danube, for bringing up what we initiated and finally doing it. The family bankruptcy measure, which we initiated years ago, was similar. Well, at least that's it, at least that's good, but that's too little. It's too little! With regard to KSH data, I hit it, www.ksh.hu, here it is, you can look at it, I always use factual, real data, and you should start thinking on this basis. In addition to the bill, four to five simple sentences in those few seconds: fair public cargo, something that helps people who need it the most. A 27-percent World Record VAT reduction is for the benefit of underprivileged workers. Not something that has been done in the last five years, where people, those who earn low incomes, do not decrease their wages, their purchasing power does not deteriorate, but increases. And a tax policy whose conclusion and outcome is that there should be real employment expansions in the economy and, as I said, wage increases. A million new jobs in the economy - always keep that in mind! Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-05-30-112	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary Katalin Veresné Novák. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2015-05-30-113	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I was wondering if I should talk to him, because I thought everyone would like to go home to their family. I would like to go home to my family, too, but I thought that if we had heard enough personal comments and then really important questions, then it would be appropriate to respond to this, so that's why I'm doing this. However, I find personal comments of such low quality that they would rather not respond to them, and I really find this ridiculous. [[Dr. István Józsa: You laughed at it.]] Which, in turn, means how much money we leave with families, how much we consider population loss and demographics to be important, I feel like we're not living in the same world, or reading the same news, or looking at the same bill, not talking about it from the same document. I think this government is the first to face this issue. And with the decline of the population in Hungary for 34 years, I beg you, this is the first time that we have said that, we are facing it, and we are trying to do something about it. It is possible to pamper after this, to demand more and constantly be dissatisfied in this regard on all sides, I feel that this is the first government to actually make sure that the desired and desired children are born today in Hungary. These measures cannot be taken irresponsiblely. If we look at the draft budget for next year or look at the draft tax laws, I firmly state that next year's budget and tax laws are both about the welfare of families. And if we look at how this fits into the governance of the last five years, it is an integral part of a process. After all - and here I would refer to what the socialist governments had done before - the most important thing in this regard is predictability, planning; that when a person takes on a child and makes a long-term life-long decision, we should not drag the government to the left, throw not various promises and suggestions, but build a predictable, long-term, predictable family support system. This is what we have done in the last five years, and we will do so, and we will do it with the appropriate measures, which, by the way, will be made possible by the country's economic situation and scope. That is why I feel that both the current draft budget and the draft tax laws reflect this responsible government attitude. And let's not forget what's happened in the last five years. If we look at how much money we left as a surplus for families, we can say that we have left a total amount of HUF 1 million in the last five years in a typical family with children. Well, it's a sum worth talking about, which is a significant scale. I do not want to bring back and repeat the figures that have already been said by the fellow Members here, or will also be presented and presented by the Secretary of State, but I think that, for example, by raising only one element from the tax laws or tax measures, we are talking about the tax relief of two children, which we have said is essentially no matter whether it is an amendment of an earlier law or not that we are talking about giving that extra 5000 HUF a month to families with two children from next year, and by 2019 we will double the family tax relief that did not exist at the time of families with one and two children.... - but I am saying who we are talking about. These are the average families where one or two children are raised, and we are trying to support these families even more by doubling this family tax reduction by 2019. In the same way, Congressman, you say that there is no mention of creating a home. Well, on July 1st, we are introducing a home-building discount for families, which, unlike the former Socopol, allows them to buy second-hand real estate, and allows them to create homes even if the first child is a child. I think we're making more moves. What I'm saying is that 500 families can use the Socpol in the system so far, and we're counting that 12,000 families will be able to use it next year. So I'll be waiting for the reactions back then. I think if we can achieve this so that 12 000 families can benefit from this otherwise open budget, then I think that is when we will be able to properly evaluate this. So I think that I feel, and this is my belief, that we have made a lot of progress, and I am also very familiar with the data of the KSH, and everyone is arbitraryly referring to the elements that he feels are beneficial to him. And I also know how to look at year/year data or snow/month data, which is more convenient for you. I say that the income differences in Hungary have decreased, that is a fact. This is confirmed by the data of both KSH and Eurostat, otherwise all statistics known to me that have been published recently. I believe that all the slashing, all the baseless accusations you've made here, and all the arguments you've brought up without any facts, all prove to me that you haven't read the same tax bill that I have. Once again, I can say that both next year's budget and next year's tax laws are about families. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-30-114	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the factions if anyone else wants to speak within the time frame available. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. [[Dr. István Józsa: I'm out of time. It's only fair that you can't call back.]] The general debate is closed. I'll ask Mr. Gábor Orbán, Secretary of State, if you'd like to answer. [[For signal:]] Yes, I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-05-30-115	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, Before I give a concrete response to some of the comments that we have heard in the speeches, allow me to remind you that the proposals contained in the draft law before you are closely aligned with the economic policy and tax policy objectives set out in recent years. This means that, in order to maintain a growth-friendly tax system that has been developed over recent years, we continue to focus on consumption, traffic-type taxes and environmental and health taxes, while income taxes are gradually decreasing as far as possible while maintaining fiscal balance. The foundations of the tax system remain unchanged for the future, as it is proven that this tax system can ensure financial stability, social security and economic growth at the same time. I do not agree with Mr Sándor Burány, because the performance of the Hungarian economy in excess of expectations has clearly confirmed that we are on the right track, just as we have achieved in the area of whitening the economy. The fundamental pillar of the tax system remains, as the Secretary of State has said, the respect for work and families. Making personal income tax a single digit remains our goal, we have not given up this work, we are moving gradually in this direction, because we do not want to stop or turn back. [[15.00]] I believe that by the end of the second cycle, a series of tax remission steps, worth hundreds of billions of HUF, can be achieved. Next year we will move towards our goal, we will reduce the key to Szja to 15 percent, leaving 120 billion HUF per year from next year to 4 million employees. The resulting net increase in earnings can be expected by all legally employed, notified workers, and therefore I do not understand why we are talking about who is losing their earnings, and we should talk about how everyone's earnings will increase next year. With regard to the proposals of the MSZP, it is worth noting that the progressive tax system maintained by socialist governance has severely penalised additional performance and has operated an unrealistic tax credit system that encouraged income secrecy. At the same time, capital incomes were taxed linearly. I don't understand why they want to punish labour incomes with progression, while capital incomes have been taxed linearly. If you look at it, our tax system has a broadband system for several types of taxes. That's the bank tax, that's the corporate tax, by the way, and that's what the advertising tax would have been like in our original intentions, we've just encountered all kinds of external barriers... [[Dr. István Józsa: Nándor Gúr: Internet tax?]] Congressman, I'd like to thank you if you could give me the closing for me, but if you don't, I'd like to continue. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the government has also taken steps to prevent a reduction in net income, as the necessary wage increase, expected by employers, has been carried out in such a way that they could benefit from the social contribution tax. This was well-known as the institution of wage compensation, so the transition to a single-key sja did not have the consequences that Mr Burány mentioned. Over the past period, as opposed to the tax policy of socialist governance, we have also been constantly paying attention to the appreciation of child rearing and childbearing, the support of families has been successfully ensured, with the creation of a family contribution allowance, in 2014 more than HUF 235 billion remained for parents raising children, and the increase in the current draft law will improve the income situation of 380,000 parents by nearly HUF 15 billion next year. What was a socialist comment on the family discount, I would like to mention now in relation to the granting of a negative tax. The MSZP proposal is not a new idea in this regard. It came up when they were in power, but they didn't, by chance. Technically, it is not possible to say that it requires minimum income at all, or it doesn't even need it. That is why they decided to increase the family allowance, but they gave up - and we do not want to give up on it - so that this family discount would encourage work to be linked to work. Erzsébet Schmuck's thoughts also revolved around or around bringing back the multi-key income tax system. These were the usual arguments, and I would not repeat what I have said in this regard, the government's position in this matter is clear. I would also point out that, in addition to the government's pace of reducing the burden on labour, wage increases and falling prices, it is clear what role this has played in the fact that real wages in Hungary have been constantly increasing for more than two years now. Mr Z. Mr. Carpathian, that is the reason why the design of the Saya revenue looks the way it looks, by the way. It is not just the number of people, although it is also about that; we believe in increasing employment next year compared to this year. But it is not only the number of employees, but also the rising real wages and the 1.6 percent inflation planned for the budget, which increases the fund, which, despite the decline in the key, can be even higher in absolute terms, in billion forints than the personal income tax revenue planned for this year. Allow me, for one thought, to return to Mrs Schmuck's comment on the growth tax credit. I can't agree with what you said. The measure will help companies operating legally. It is estimated that 20,000 companies may be involved, but there is no such thing as a narrow circle. The other thing he raised about this and about the local tax is that it does not help the municipalities. I don't see it that way. According to the smaller municipalities, no exemption is granted because of the revenue interest, and they are already setting a lower rate. Since this is a concentrated, targeted tax advantage option, it can only apply to general practitioners, I expect that the municipalities will be able to apply it widely, because it does not punch a hole in the municipality's budget, it does not affect a lot of taxpayers, and it can also be true in small settlements. In fact, this is precisely what smaller municipalities can do to make the currently empty practice attractive to doctors without compromising the income from other taxpayers. And where there is already a low trade tax, there is obviously no need for such a tax advantage, because there is already a tax advantage. With your permission, I would now like to turn to the comments on the transaction fee, which Mr Z. Mr Carp has made several times. I note that, as part of the government's tax policy, we continue to insist on the principle that all economic operators must, in proportion to their capacity to bear a burden, take their share of public burdens to reduce the public burden on work, with a view to increasing the share of traffic, consumption-type taxes, financial service providers have become subject to the transaction levy. The issue of passing on is not a tax policy issue. We don't see in the data that this is a mass phenomenon. As regards case-by-case cases, I would like to point out that a number of decisions have been taken against illegal financial institutions. What we do see, however, is that financial institutions have largely adapted to increased burdens by reducing costs, which means that instead of passing them on, they save on themselves and pay off the public burdens imposed on them. I would also like to take this opportunity to debate the erroneous findings on the EBRD agreement. Before I go to that point, I would also like to remind the honourable Members and ladies that the domestic financial sector has been in domestic interest by more than 50 percent over the last five years, according to some indicators, at two-thirds. So don't compare the situation in 2010 directly with this year's environment in which we have to make these decisions. Nor do I want to forget that the size of the public burden on the financial sector remains by far the highest in the European Union and in the OECD countries, with the aim of continuing to involve all economic operators in the burden-sharing. I believe that Mr Z. Kárpat's philological research, which was otherwise honorable, was in vain, because we did not conclude any agreement with the Banking Association, except when we had to reach a technical agreement in connection with the forinting. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] as a child, I would add that if it had been up to Mr Z. Carpathian, it would never have been possible, because he did not acknowledge that foreign exchange loans are foreign exchange loans. So it's a good thing we didn't follow his advice and converted foreign currency loans into forints. (Daniel Z. Carpathian intervention) That's what the congressman keeps saying, and I thank him for keeping the closing for me. I hope I've been able to help you with things about sya planning, that if you ever have to stand here and I'll be the one to talk to you, you'll know. [[Dániel Z. Kárpát: I will not resent you, Mr. Secretary of State.]] How to plan the revenue side. We need support from the Banking Federation to submit a bill for the financial sector to Parliament - that is what Dániel Z. Karpát said, but that is not true. [[15.10]] The reality is that we have entered into negotiations with the Banking Association as an important gesture and preventive practice in the future in relation to any legislative proposal affecting them. This has not always been the case in the past, but it has not always been the case, although the consultation with other sectors and stakeholders always takes place and the consultation takes place, this has not always been the case with the Banking Association, because there was such a long and large anti-popular practice that had to be abolished in Hungary, and this could not be done in consultation with the Banking Association. This process is over, the fair banking system operates from 1 February, so we can now bring the Banking Union or the banking system, the financial sector, to the same level as other social groups, in order to prevent consultation before the legislative proposals. There is nothing else, and it is certainly not that we would undermine the sovereignty of the Hungarian Government or the Hungarian Parliament to any extent, we would expose it to any external influence or external veto, and there is no such thing. However, it is important that the results of the Hungarian economy, the results of the Hungarian economic policy, are recognised internationally. It is not enough for us to know that it is not enough that if we see the data that we are doing well, it is also necessary for the outside world to see this; it is because the Hungarian government debt - thanks to socialist governance - is extremely high, so it does not matter how much interest we pay and the less we pay for it, the more Hungary appears to be a well-performing, successful country for international public opinion. This was part of the purpose of this EBRD agreement as it was. Otherwise, if we look at - and this has already been said several times - interest expenditure can be reduced by HUF 70 billion from this year to next year. Interests are not going down on their own, it is not gravity that pulls them down, Congressman, but that Hungary's credibility and its persuasive ability to succeed has grown very, very much in the last five years. Allow me to briefly come to the question of VAT. Several called for a reduction in VAT on basic foods. The government's tax policy is not part of the reduction of turnover taxes in general, but we see the possibility of such measures in a targeted way at most, taking into account the budgetary situation, but we have made more of this in recent years. Let me tell you a few things. From 1 January 2014, the VAT on live and half-carcases fell, and from 1 January this year the VAT on additional large-sized animals and their carcases and from 1 January 2016 the VAT on pig meat is reduced from 27 per cent to 5 per cent. This means that in the case of pigs there will be a tax reduction on the whole range of products and that the measure can result in savings of HUF 25 billion in consumers' pockets through its price spilling effect. As opposed to critics, we hope that the price-setting effect of competition in the market will help consumers in this case, as the black economy in this segment is very extensive, so it is different from the other product groups, where the price spill-over can - I must repeat - not be seen as a given, a gift, but here, I think, we can trust that. I can't stop reminding you how basic food got under a VAT key like where it went. This was done by governments led by the MSZP in three steps; I do not understand why they think that now they can be reduced in one move. [[Dr. István Józsa: The crisis is over!]] When there were three stairs for them, while they were having a hard time getting him up there. So, eight years of government can't be fixed in five years, Congressmen, maybe eight too few. To Mr Nándor Gúr, I would just like to point out that the VAT reduction, as we see it, is an immediate budget cut. The positive effects that have been mentioned are prolonged, so we do have to calculate revenue losses in relation to proposals such as those which have been made. To Mr Z. Carpathian's comment on the fight against VAT fraud, on the reduction of VAT, let me say that I do not think that he has missed the success of the online cash register system, I do not think that the EKÁER has escaped his attention, I do not think that he is aware of the extent to which we can reduce VAT fraud in certain product groups. So where they don't help, we're reaching for the VAT reduction, the preferential key allocation. Honourable Members, I do not want to waste time; it is indeed Saturday; my last comment would be for the tax races. I don't know how many types of tax are in Hungary according to the Members, and here they say these 50 and so on, that there are 50 new taxes and so on. There are two more taxes than there were in 2010 - as the congresswoman rightly said, this is one of the ways in which we can spread the burden as much as possible and achieve a proportionate public burden - we do not have more than 60 taxes in total, so I do not understand this new statement of the type of tax we have, but this is not the only thing I do not understand. What I would also like to say about taxes in general is that the level of detaxation in Hungary is down by 2 percentage points, and now it has stabilised by around 39 percent. For this reason, I believe that the tax policy direction that we set years ago must continue and that we are also committed. The aim is to keep the burden of families, workers and businesses raising children low. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-30-116	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments were submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, Next up is CXXII of 2010 on the National Tax and Customs Office. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission is T/4742. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Gábor Orbán, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-05-30-117	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Honourable Members, Nearly a month ago, the Honourable Parliament voted in favour of the new HSzt., i.e. XLII of 2015 on the service relationship of the professional staff of law enforcement bodies. Law. As you know, since the establishment of the National Tax and Customs Office, he has been a law enforcement officer, and there are almost 5,500 professional finance officers working there. The new Hst. 1. Pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section 3 of the NAV Act, as has already been regulated, the provisions of the HST shall apply to the service relationship of the professional staff of the NAV with the derogations provided for in the NAV Act. The bill before us serves this adaptation of the NAV Act to the new Hst., which is the date of entry into force of the amendments - similarly to Hst. for its entry into force - 1 July 2015. In the light of the new HSt., it is necessary to amend all previous rules referring to the old ones in the NAV Act and, in substance, the amendment contains provisions other than those of HSt in respect of the same subjects as the legislation in force. These concern issues that are fully regulated by the NAV Act, such as rules on salaries and other benefits or disciplinary and compensation proceedings. [[15.20]] In accordance with Article 4 of the NAV Act, as has already been regulated, the provisions of the Hst. shall apply to the service relationship of the professional staff of the NAV with the derogations provided for in the NAV Act. The bill before us serves this adaptation of the NAV Act to the new Hst., which is the date of entry into force of the amendments - similarly to Hst. for its entry into force - 1 July 2015. In the light of the new HSt., it is necessary to amend all previous rules referring to the old ones in the NAV Act and, in substance, the amendment contains provisions other than those of HSt in respect of the same subjects as the legislation in force. These concern issues that are fully regulated by the NAV Act, such as rules on salaries and other benefits or disciplinary and compensation proceedings. (15.20) Different rules are basically justified because of the different definitions of the NAV Act or because of the rules governing the promotion or remuneration of the NAV. The bill also contains the necessary internal measures for criminal proceedings in connection with a criminal offence which is emerging in the new HSzt. and the Act on the Status of Civil Service Officers. Dear Parliament, I would like to make my point short, and I would like to conclude by saying that the bill serves to harmonise the provisions on the staff of a professional finance officer with the new law on the status of law enforcement bodies, and I would therefore ask honourable Members to support our bill amending the Statute of the NAV. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-05-30-118	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, the first of which will be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Gábor Riz, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-05-30-119	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Just as it is in the best interests of all states, including our country, to collect its revenues in a controlled manner, with the assistance of competent professionals, in time and in accuracy. In general, the tax administration is not the most popular institution in a country, but we need to see that for all the benefits that seem natural to us, such as education or health care, resources come through the tax office, so it is important to regulate precisely the legal status and pay of employees at the tax office. The proposal before us is CXXII of 2010 on the National Tax and Customs Office. It contains a two-time amendment to the Act. NAV Act XLII 2015 on the service relationship of professional staff of law enforcement bodies. The provisions for adapting to the law shall enter into force on 1 July 2015 in accordance with the entry into force of the Law on the employment relationship of new professional staff. The rules relating to the candidate law shall enter into force on 1 July 2016 in accordance with the new HSt. Allow me to present some of the main provisions of the proposal to you. Article 2 Paragraph 2 provides for a general rule of conduct for all NAV personnel, both as a requirement to conduct themselves outside the working time, duty and public service, and as a requirement to retain classified information. Article 3 § provides for compliance with the rules relating to salaries and other allowances or disciplinary and compensation proceedings to be applied to the HSt. Different rules are basically justified because of the different definitions of the NAV Act or because of the rules governing the promotion or remuneration of the NAV. Article 5 § regulates the procedure to be followed in the event of inadequacy based on qualification or on health, psychic or physical condition. Article 8 § gives the legal institution of the service complaint much more limited space than in the case of certain employers' measures affecting the legal relationship in principle and in substance, in order to provide the same remedies as NAV's government officials. Article 10 § 2 states that, in addition to maintaining the service relationship of the financial investigator, he may be entrusted with the establishment of another employment relationship or the pursuit of other gainful activities, the special rules of which shall be laid down by the designated minister. Article 15 is replaced by the following: § sets out the detailed rules for resigning from the management position. The cancellation period is 30 days, but the person concerned may be agreed at a shorter time. Dear House, In addition to a number of other important amendments, the aim is to improve the efficiency of tax collection in the tax office, which is responsible for a significant part of the revenue of the state budget, and to continue to develop procedures that are becoming simpler for businesses and individuals while at the same time ensuring maximum collection of the required revenue. According to one survey, the NAV's Revisorans carried out 38 thousand tax checks in 2013, which is likely to continue to increase in 2014. Without proper IT, professional base, that would have been almost impossible. It is also important to know that, on a quarterly basis, the Minister of National Economy can increase the issuance of the National Tax and Customs Office's personal allowances by HUF 6 billion 250 million if the quarterly revenue plans set by the Minister are met. The amount entered in next year's budget is the same as that shown in this year's budget. This can also be an important incentive for tax officials. The Minister may also authorise HUF 1 billion 687.5 million on a quarterly basis for the public costs of the wage surplus. That's the same amount as his time. Let me remind you that, in recent years, a number of measures have been taken to widen the tax system's toolbox, which has opened up new dimensions for control and tax collection efficiency. The IT tools have a key role to play in selecting for verification. In view of the size of the accounting material available to businesses and the variety of accounting programme parks used today, the audit itself can be carried out most effectively by IT tools, since in most cases, it is easy to identify abusive patterns, movements of items which are not in line with legal business, suspicious transactions, result corrections based on a non-real economic event. Dear fellow Members, We need to see that the NAV provides 80% of the country's central budget - so we thank all the employees of the organization - and it is therefore in our common interest that we collect and collect public burdens as efficiently as possible. Not only has IT changed, but it also determines our present world. Think of the online cash registers that have multiplied the huge data that has been received so far. This information should be processed at the NAV and the risks filtered out, so the development of the up-to-date professional skills of NAV staff is essential for the maximum use of the IT data and tools set at their disposal. On the other hand, I would like to stress, of course, that it is important for the IRS to be aware of the mentality that focuses not on punishment but on possible assistance. According to reports by Hungarian entrepreneurs in London, the tax office there, if it detects a minor error in the case of a start-up enterprise, does not punish, but tries to give as much help and advice as possible to enable the company to operate legally. A similar practice can also be seen in our country, according to the proposal amending the competition law before this House, the GVH may refrain from imposing fines for the first time when the undertaking is acting in breach of competition law. We hope that this positive trend will be reflected in the change of attitude in the tax office, as it is also in the interest of the State to strengthen tax discipline, cooperative loyalty to the state, and in this case, fair attitudes and helpful gestures are worth more than any rigour. The Parliament and the government therefore support the tax office's extremely complex and undoubtedly difficult work with regulators. We hope that, if entrepreneurs and citizens feel, experience the effectiveness and effectiveness of controls, it will also strengthen the way in which they follow the law. On the basis of this proposal, the effectiveness and effectiveness of the controls are repeatedly proposed, so I would like to ask you to support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-30-120	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Statement will be made by Mrs Márta Demeter, MSZP Group.
u2015-05-30-121	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, There is a legislative amendment before us, which shows that Fidesz is committed to its policy so far, imposes obligations on employees again, tightens rules, but does not contain any compensation for them. I would like to point out that in a government decision of 2014 the government decided to develop a new professional career model. The new Hst. , the first draft law on the service of professional staff of law enforcement agencies, we know that as regards the professional staff of the NAV, it contained that it was not Hst. They would have been subject to his rules. The Parliament finally received a bill, as we have seen, which, in keeping with the current regulatory concept, also assigns the provisions of the Service Act to the finance officers as its main rule. I would like to refer here to Mr Riz's speech because he said that we all owe thanks and you owe it to the work of the NAV workers; I agree very much with that, and I agree with that. [[15.30]] However, what you are doing is the opposite, because it is not in words that you should be thanking you first; it is also a very good thing, of course, but also in actions, as has already been the case here in previous debates. But let's see what the actions are, as the finance officers will be left out of the salary improvement required in the new HST as of 1 July 2015 and the new promotional system will not have to be applied to them. Therefore, neither the financial officers nor the rules of the new system of promotion will benefit from the development of salaries. I would like to note here what Mr Secretary of State has already said about the adoption of the new Hst almost a month ago. However, a month later, the Government submitted an amendment to it, which is particularly outrageous, since it plans to push the new salary regime to 2019. So there's already a problem with this Shst. amendment. But we're not talking about this law, we're talking about amending the NAV law. So I'd like to sum up what's been going on so far. There are no provisions concerning the remuneration and promotion of finance officers in relation to the amendment of the NAV Act and the HST. the transfer of its rules. Where this amendment constitutes a specific tightening up compared to the existing legislation, these are the following. Under the current rules, without the approval of the finance officer, it may be conducted every three years for a total period of six months for the performance of service in another room. According to the proposal, what lies before us would be amended to 4 months per year. The new Hst. Taking over its regulation, the proposal only allows for the dismissal of the financial officer who has become unfit to perform his/her duties if he/she rejects the proposed post for reasonable reasons. If the grounds for refusal cannot be respected, it should be considered that the financial officer has, by the way, resigned from his duties. In some respects, this amendment proposal, which lies before us, contains even more unfavourable provisions than the new HST. Like the new Hst. in accordance with point (a) of Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011, the first subparagraph of Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is replaced by the following: However, it is proposed that there is no room for repeated inspections of financial officers. In addition, there are a number of subjects that are covered by the new Hst. It is proposed that the Employment Code issued by the President of the NAV be regulated by a regulation. The new Hst. the employer is obliged to offer a post corresponding to his or her qualifications and of the same rank as his or her previous post after the termination of the management or of the management staff. In the proposal we have before us, it only guarantees the offer of a new job corresponding to a school education and not a job of equal value in the case of finance officers. So I think that it is extremely unworthy that the new Hst is for the financial officers. The government wants to apply all of its tightening ups, but they are completely excluded from other professional salary developments. For example, I think that stipend development would be a worthy way of expressing thanks. Without the new promotional order and salary system, the finance officers are the new Hst. they get all the disadvantages and no advantage of that law. In particular, it is outrageous that the proposal contains even stricter rules from the new HST on certain points, as I have just mentioned. Furthermore, the proposal contains a number of provisions that can be found both in the HST and in the Public Service Officers Act. In place of the employment rules, it is also appropriate to legislate all the subjects for which the new HST applies. It provides for a ministerial decree to be drawn up. And it is incomprehensible why, unlike the new HST, the proposal does not allow a new investigation to be carried out in the case of medical, physical, psychological, inadequate financial officers. Rules other than the new HSt. on the offer of a post-command and post-disclosure post are also unacceptable. Due to the rigid reference to the old HSt., the proposal also opens the provision of the NAV Act on conflicts of interest. It is not a new rule, but in the light of the Toller case, it is particularly interesting that the NAV Act also allows those who hold a leading position to hold office in a publicly owned company as well as in the supervisory board, although this is otherwise done by the old and the new HSt. It's against the law. The MSZP has already opposed the obligation to notify in the event of the initiation of criminal proceedings in the case of previous legal status laws. This was due to the fact that the proposal, in its present form, is unsuitable for higher expectations of public servants, professional staff and public service officials. It's only good for keeping employees at risk who will never commit a crime in their life. Thus, overall, it is unacceptable and manifestly discriminatory that, contrary to preliminary promises, finance officers are completely excluded from both the salary development and the change in the system of promotion, which is otherwise provided to professional staff. In these circumstances, it is also outrageous that they want to extend all the restrictions of the new service law, including the rules of conduct, to finance officers. Therefore, the MSZP strongly opposes the adoption of the bill, and we ask the government to draw up and present to Parliament the new system of promotion and salary of the finance officers. We have also tabled a number of amendments to this amendment; of course we are asking you to support these amendments. One of our amendments is intended to ensure that the law on public service relations and professional service is applied as fully as possible to the NAV staff. According to one of our amendments, we cannot accept either the name of the arguable cause or the representation of self-mistake in the norm here, as these make the application of the exemption rules extremely subjective. We also agree that the bill does not allow the new investigation to be carried out, so we will also introduce an amendment in this regard, as well as an amendment in relation to the application of the rules of conduct, which we cannot agree with. We will ask you to support our amendments. This bill, which is before us, cannot be supported by the MSZP. Thank you very much. [[Dr. István Józsa applauds.]]
u2015-05-30-122	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr András Aradszki, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2015-05-30-123	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The legislator took on a difficult task when it intended to bring the activities of the finance officers governed by the National Tax and Customs Office Act into line with the provisions of the law on the service relationship of professional staff of law enforcement bodies and the Law on Public Service Officers. NAV is a special legal institution, a special administrative body whose activity covers almost the economic activity of the whole country, its private people, its natural persons, its economic entities, and, of course, it carries out a very important task of ensuring that public burdens are collected. This significant organization, which is present in almost every settlement, but mostly in every district, has many employees, with various tasks, skills and qualifications and different powers. [[15.40]] Within this institutional system, there is a particularly special situation for finance officers, who are entitled to carry out both arms and applications, and who carry out significant tasks of involvement in tax administrations. So, in fact, they used to say that they were like foreman, ping-pong ball between the workman and the management, that is, they have a lot to live up to, and most importantly, to perform their duties legally, in line with the rank, task and purpose of the body. What I see is that this daring attempt to solve this heterogeneous but yet one-way task system... - in relation to the organizational unit that is performing. He tried to solve it, and, in order to ensure the consistency of the three laws, leaving the primacy of the NAV Act, he arranged the rules that otherwise also apply to the professional staff of bodies with similar status, which carry out law enforcement tasks, extending it to the finance officers. In many cases, this is more than a prestigious issue, which in many cases means that financial officers must operate under the same rules as clear, transparent and similar law enforcement bodies, and of course the remuneration they receive as employees of the NAV contributes to this. These two may not be worth mixing, putting together, because it is not yet possible within the specific remuneration system of the NAV to know where the financial officer is better off, if we apply the promotional system for the professional stock or the remuneration system of the NAV, which is otherwise defined. In this respect, I believe that it will be necessary to sum up the experience in any way, and it is absolutely necessary to examine how the work of the professional staff, which performs the two tasks of law enforcement, can be further approached, but, as I have just said, is also subject to specific rules. But I have to say that in this regard, this bill was able to accomplish the impossible with sufficient success and depth, and it brought this heterogeneous, yet one-way, system into a system. I must also note that I am not afraid, and I must even say that a member of an organisation carrying out tasks related to a professional staff does need clear, clear rules and a clear set of requirements, because it gives its dignity, because their dignity comes from following the rules. In all such ministry there is this spirituality that compliance with the rules is the primary, and the existence of precise regulation helps to deepen this prestige. So in this respect, I also consider the bill justified and worthy of support. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-05-30-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr János Volner, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-05-30-125	Thank you very much, Mr. President. For my part, I was surprised to hear the words of my fellow Member, Mr András Aradski, because he spoke about the dignity to be given to the finance officers, which, of course, must be acknowledged. However, I remember the year 2010 when thousands of law enforcement workers demonstrated themselves here in front of the Parliament, not only because they were not given dignity, but even what they had acquired as a right, they were taken away from them by the government. His pension was reduced, taxed in practice, and many people who took up professional service with the knowledge that he could retire at the time with early leave were faced with disappointment as a person standing one or two years before the pension, that he would work for as long as others, although he did not take this job with that knowledge. This is a very important thing to bring before us. It is important what my fellow Member, Mr Demeter, has already said, so that the finance officers can count on a certain advancement, see a career based on objective performance measurement, in which a young person, if he chooses to take the finance officer's career, can see that, if certain conditions are met, he can move forward if the qualifications and working conditions are met, and in this way not only financially but also positably rise up the ranking ladder; therefore, he can be reached. One of the very important lessons of the 2010 police protests - and I discussed it with several trade unions at the time - was that people working in these sectors do not see a vision, the conditions are very confusing, there is no uniform service career system that the government would offer them, and unfortunately this has not been resolved since then, and there has not been a reassuring solution to this. I think it is important what my fellow Member Aradski said that data analysis will be the best way to improve the effectiveness of monitoring. Perhaps I was the first to speak here at the National Assembly about the fact that big data has become a major trend not only in the long line of doctoral dissertations, but also in the practice of the Western European states and the US tax office itself. From a lot of data, it is increasingly possible to conclude more and more precisely how to catch tax avoidance, what needs to be done in order to whiten the economy. What I find very sad is that this is happening in Hungary in such a way that these measures are being implemented by the finance officers we are discussing now, so that practically all of its costs - or almost all its costs - are passed on to businesses by the State. For example, see the EKÁER: how was it introduced in Hungary? Professional organizations protested hand and foot because they did not consult them in advance, they met with regulations that failed in practice, which could not simply be implemented, and the government washed with the fact that, yes, this is a new regulation, we can see that there are big mistakes in it and that the system does not work that way, but we will change it. Ladies and gentlemen, the system of national cooperation must first be filled with content, and, after the consultation with professional organisations, it is likely that there will be much less error than when the government tries to establish rules for economic sectors that it does not seem to understand. That's my very important and dissociative opinion on this matter. The other question is that the years that a law enforcement worker or a financial officer may lose in their life, as these people have a long period of average age, let us not forget the Hungarian average, how the government would like to redeem them. In 2010, he had already carefully rewritten the course of life by changing the pension rules that they had seen before them for a number of years since the change of regime, and now it can only be seen that the government is touching it with such uncertainty even from the words of my fellow Member Aradski, that we will see which one will be better for them, and that the reward for tax officials may be, that they may be professional and receive benefits similar to those of law enforcement workers. So it's simply not made up, ladies and gentlemen. Social consultation should take place in order not to be answered by practice, so that, well, now poor people don't have the money to raise their salary, and for that, there really is a policeman working for 80,000 forints, as Márius Révész said. It is necessary to make this career predictable, because a person who chooses a profession for several decades should see where he will keep it, see that if he is in the service of the Hungarian State, he will not have difficulties in living, sir, he will be available to a professional, say, a place of service, and, after two or three decades of service, this apartment will be his own property. These are benefits that these people have enjoyed for a long, long time in Hungary. [[15.50]] While they enjoyed these benefits during the governorship of Miklós Horthy. István Tisza also enjoyed these benefits. At present, we are living at a time when, for a year in advance, it is impossible to know what these people's fate will be, because the government keeps them uncertain. This is simply not good, because talented people often go to the competition sector, flee these careers because they are committed, but everyone in the store pays the same price for the products, and if, in the case of a cashier, he sees that he cannot get out of his salary at the end of the month, then he may indeed go to work for a private company, for a similar job, for much more money. And if the vision that the Hungarian state offers him is more than confusing, because the rules are not visible, and he does not see what will happen to him in ten years' time, where he will keep money, if he meets all the appropriate requirements, then the public service career is less attractive, and in this way the stock will be contrasted, as has unfortunately happened in many sectors in Hungary. In order to avoid this, all we can do is encourage the government to finally engage in a meaningful social dialogue with the stakeholders, because it is not only inappropriate to legislate without them, it is not only against the legislative law, but it also leads to the fact that it offers an insensitive, futureless career for this population of people, the government of this professional population, and it is simply not in the interests of Hungary. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-05-30-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Since no one has applied for a two-minute speech, it is now time for a written statement. I give the floor to Mr István Józsa, MSZP Group.
u2015-05-30-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, This agenda has been given a more professional approach than the previous one. I am very sorry that the secretary of state, who is otherwise professional, is also getting carried away in his closet and is over eight years old. We didn't object to that! We're having a professional debate. We do not agree with the essence of their tax policy that personal tax taxes are being carried down and consumer tax taxes are being applied upwards. I've explained this several times why we don't support it. After that, the past eight years, the failure of the past eight years cannot be corrected in five years, this suggests the same misinterpretation and professional incomprehensibility, which is based on the fact that in 2008-2009 Hungary was seriously hit by the global economic crisis and the global financial crisis. The politicians on the right tried to pin this on the back of the then-regulating government; here comes my answer to Congressman Riz: successfully. So you're not responsible for the two-thirds, and the global economic crisis is a major part of that. It's your fault that they were able to pull the mood on the second floor. But don't think it was fair, and it was for the good of the country. It would be in the interests of the country to have a functioning democracy, not two thirds of you, especially not in the way you're doing with it right now. So I think it is appropriate to debate on a professional basis here in Parliament within the framework of professional agendas; I would definitely like to stick to this. I also agree that the operation of the Tax and Customs Office is of paramount importance. Indeed, a very significant share of the revenue from the budget, over four fifths, is realised through the operation of the Tax and Customs Office. It therefore requires particular attention to the conditions under which the current government or parliament will operate on the basis of government proposals. We cannot ignore the restructuring of the activity between the tax office and the customs part. With Hungary being a Member State of the Union as of 1 May 2004, the volume of revenue in the customs field has decreased significantly, as have customs boundaries been significantly reduced. At the same time, I consider it a technically correct idea, not only because, before the change of government, I was part of the wording of it, as the President of the Customs Council, that it is appropriate to integrate the tax office and the VPOP, the customs office area, but it does not matter how. This was a necessary professional step, and it requires a great deal of caution, because, as the Secretary of State Aradski said, customs workers are members of an armed body at the same time, namely, Hst. led their lives, but after integration they also had specific but no less important tasks to improve the efficiency of the tax office work. I would refer here to efficiency, and not only because we can read in the macro-analysis within the EU that in Hungary about a thousand billion dollars of VAT evasion is more than presumed, but also estimated. At the same time, I do not want to overestimate András Horváth's findings and significance based on his own experience, but on his own experience, he also estimates the loss of VAT to a thousand billion, and he clearly calls it VAT fraud, which is probably true by the perpetrators. What is presumed to be the responsibility of customs or tax officials, at least through sloppy work; some assume more than that. In the light of the highly exposed job conditions, the MSZP considers it unacceptable and manifestly discriminatory that, contrary to previous promises, finance officers are completely excluded from the salary arrangements provided to professional staff. Under the strained circumstances, it is not acceptable that they want to extend all the restrictions of the new law of service, in particular the new rules of conduct, to finance officers, but not to benefit from the related positives. Therefore, the MSZP strongly opposes the adoption of the bill in this way, and calls on the government to draw up and submit to Parliament the new system of advance and salary of the finance officers. In particular, with regard to the backgrounds of which one of the main events was that the Government was the Government of 1846/2014. The Council decided to establish a new professional career model. The new Hst. However, according to its first draft, the professional staff of the NAV, i.e. customs and finance officers, would not have been subject to the law at all. In the end, the Parliament received a bill which, while maintaining the current regulatory concept, also places the provisions of the Service Act on the financial officers as the main rule. At the same time, the finance officers have been left out of the salary improvement required in the new Hst. as from 1 July 2015 and the new system of progress should not be applied to them at the current stage. In addition to being unacceptable, in agreement with Mr Riz's approach, it is counterproductive, i.e. it is not right. So if within an organisation - which is the National Tax and Customs Office here - there are such wage tensions, organisational tensions, tensions in the working conditions, it is necessarily at the expense of effectiveness, which, in addition to such revenue objectives and regulations, can cause serious budgetary damage. [[16.00]] So if we are to judge the operation of the President of the Tax and Customs Office, then, in my opinion, on a professional basis, it is not necessarily the American ban scandal, which has been reported to be the most serious. It is much more problematic and more serious about the revenue side of the budget, that it is making management errors. It makes exceptions in the selection of executives, such as the job activity of the senior subordinates, and thus creates situations that create internal problems, tensions, loyalty and professional compromises, which is a direct, serious loss. I don't want to say from Parliament that it's a crime, because there's an internal response to the National Tax and Customs Office. If it worked out right, he'd have to explore these things. There's law enforcement, there's the D.A., there's the prosecution. If they were not politically conceptual, but were to operate with full regard to professional aspects, it would result both in a clean and socially valued operation of the body and in the provision of budgetary revenue. I ask that, in a purely professional manner and in the light of the revenue from the budget and the morally acceptable operation of the National Tax and Customs Office, this proposal be revised and presented to the Parliament, which recognises the new system of advance and salary of the finance officers according to the weight of their activities, and does not contain such discrimination as is now before us. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-05-30-128	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr. Gábor Orbán, Secretary of State, if he wishes to reply. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
u2015-05-30-129	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, In short, I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that the proposal that we have just tabled is only necessary for legal reasons. A deeper understanding of the detailed rules and a longer time would be needed to discuss why we are not introducing stricter regulation. It doesn't make any kind of change that's meaningful. What we are talking about here is that if we don't adopt this bill now, then all of our NAV employees' professional relations will become uncertain. So anyone who does not support this law does not support tax collection in Hungary either. It should also be borne in mind that the NAV has been a government agency which has served law enforcement duties since its establishment on 1 January 2011, which had already established its own rules for employees, government officials or professional staff in different employment relationships. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] As far as numbers are concerned, I would simply put the situation as I said, the number of professional finance officers is below 5,500, and there are three times as many civil government officials, administrators, employees. This particular personal composition justifies it, without wanting to reduce the commitment of the finance officers and the importance of their professional service, that only the introduction of a uniform career model for the NAV, i.e. the whole staff, which will enter into force at the same time, could be a realistic solution. This work will be carried out this year, so what the opposition is calling for in this sense is not debated. We can do this at a later stage. What is important now is to create consistency with the new Hst., thereby eliminating the uncertainty about the NAV personnel. I would like your support once again, thank you.
u2015-05-30-130	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I thought the closing would be longer, so I sat down to replace Vice President James, who I don't know how many hours he's been sitting here. Thank you. Dear Parliament, The amendments were submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. No one applied for a post-meeting speech. I thank the Parliament for its work, the staff for their work on Saturday. Parliament will resume its meeting on Monday, 1 June at 11 a.m. I wish you a restful weekend. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 4:07 p.m.]]
